ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Before you there is a proposal for a half-year report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2013. The total revenues of the state budget during that period amounted to €52.3 billion which is 1.4% lower than that of last year but are approximately €1 billion or 1.8% higher when compared to the first half of 2011. The most significant revenues are revenue from value added tax, which in the first half of 2013 amounts to €20.2 billion which is an increase of 7.5% or 1.4 billion compared to the same period last year. The VAT in the total income structure accounted for 38.7% while in the total income structure last year was 35.5%. Other most significant items of income are contributions to health and pension insurance, and employment contributions that have participated in the overall income structure since 2013 with 33.3% or 18.1 billion kuna, which is 5.2% less than last year or somewhere at around 990 million kuna. Last year, the share of such revenues was about 36% or 720 million kuna when compared to the first half of 2011. Why am I combining this and showing the stakes that were the share of VAT, what was the share of the contribution? In fact, when we look at changes in the structure of the two most significant incomes, it comes from the change in tax policy in 2012 this is due to an increase in VAT rate and a reduction in the rate of contribution by 2 index points. And the aggregated level has no change in these two most significant revenues. Last year, their total total total amount is €37.9 billion, while this year it is €400 million more €38.3 billion. That decision was taken to improve the competitiveness of the Croatian economy or to reduce the gross labour price by around 13%. The significant effect of discharging the economy especially small and medium-sized enterprises in 2013 is also seen through an increase in the threshold for entering the VAT system from 80 to 230 thousand kuna or around 30,000 666 euros. With this shift of the threshold for entering the VAT system, the Croatian economy is more competitive at the level of the region. If we look at the region, what is the level of the threshold for entering the VAT system, you will see that Croatia is extremely competitive with this rise in the entry threshold. So in BiH it's about 25 thousand 600 euros, in Slovenia 25 thousand euros, Italy 30 thousand euros, Montenegro 18 thousand euros, Hungary 17 thousand 875 euros, Macedonia 32 thousand 600, the only thing slightly bigger in Serbia is about 35 thousand 100 euros. So all of these levels Croatia is extremely competitive for this part of not burdening that part of the small, medium-sized enterprise where this government has said in its clear policy that it will raise that part of the system. At that level, the first effects are shown. As a result of this measure that is important for the small economy, the fact that 27 000 and 700 entrepreneurs came out of the VAT system because of this measure. The reduction of income, which is certainly also affected the revenue side of the budget, but the disbursement of small and medium-sized enterprises, the reduction of income in the first half, was significantly affected by the reduction of income from profit tax and 34%. In the first half of 2013, a billion and a half kuna was received on the basis of that tax compared to the same period last year. The share in the total income structure of the profit tax was reduced from about 8.3%, which was at 6 months 2012 to 6.4% in 2013. So this was again a measure of the government of the Republic of Croatia to encourage capital in companies. The reason why this measure was introduced? The reason for the reduction in this part of income lies in the fact that the tax system for profit taxation is changed where the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the light of the better competitiveness of the capitalisation of the Croatian economy, has given entrepreneurs the opportunity to reduce the tax base for reinvested profits. This measure would be necessary if we know that since 2001 the capitalisation of Croatian companies has been in constant decline. This also tells you that the share of capital, meaning its own financing of Croatian companies in 2001, was 55%. In 2007, therefore, while the economic growth rates were still positive, the share of capital meant that Croatian companies had their own financing of 50%. Because of the crisis that is actually moving, because of the global financial crisis that is... in Croatia from 2008, in fact, by 2012, the share of Croatian companies' capital fell to 34%. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or somewhere when we speak in 2012, that capital is about 361 billion kuna or somewhere around 48 billion euros is capital in all companies in Croatia. However, if the share of the capital of state-owned enterprises that represent mainly infrastructure is excluded, the share of capital in companies in Croatia is worryingly low and it falls somewhere at 20%. Why am I saying this? I am saying this because we cannot achieve that second lever that is extremely important for one national economy, meaning not only stability of public finances at all costs but also economic growth as the first and primary objective, as the primary objective of creating new jobs. Companies with a 20% share of capital are simple and where all their collaterals have actually put into stock banks where there is actually one restriction of the banking sector is difficult to expect, expected economic growth. And that is why this part of the Government of Croatia's decision to improve and strengthen capital in Croatian companies is no matter how much public finances a billion and a half kuna in that part is less incomed into the budget but remains in businesses to create jobs and actually create new values. In 2013, this relief benefited 1908 companies, which means that these companies decided to increase their core capital of 5.8 billion kuna, which will significantly improve their financial structure in the coming years. So that measure will have a direct impact on increasing the share of capital, meaning close to 6 billion kuna in Croatian businesses. The reduction of the profit tax was certainly affected by a reduction in the profitability of the banking sector in 2012. The profit of a business bank in 2012 was 2.7 billion kuna, which is also lower by 900 million kuna compared to when it was seen in 2011 when the profit was 3.6 billion kuna. So that's actually the result of bad placements, so low capitalisation, and when the bank actually reduces and its own in that part of profitability, they actually have an even greater investment aversion to the economy, especially that economy that doesn't actually have enough capital. So this measure is the Government of the Republic of Croatia to encourage entrepreneurship will certainly have a long-term impact on strengthening capital especially by entering the European Union where we do not have strong capital firms that can report to funds and actually encourage that other side of economic growth. It was simply a necessary measure to stimulate the economy. And I told you how much of her stake in the entire structure. And we thought that in this part of that share about 6% means that in, it was a positive measure. As for other revenues, special taxes and excise duties are at last year's level, and they amount to around 5 billion kuna. And so they total around 9.5% of total income. The revenues from administrative and administrative fees rose by 5%, and they amount to around 1.9 billion kuna, but their share is somewhere at 3.7%. Despite the unfavourable developments in the labour market, it is interesting that we are growing income from income tax, which records an increase of 3.6% and amounts to around 554 million kuna, which we believe is due to increased financial discipline, i.e. the introduction of a regulation that actually has no possibility of paying salaries, net wages without gross wages. While aid revenues are up 54% and are related to increased IPA projects, it means increased funding withdrawals and, in fact, the European Union, by 54.5%. When we talk about expenditures, the total expenditure of the government budget in the first half of 2013 is €63.7 billion, which is 4.9 billion or 8% higher than last year's period. The main reason for the increase in expenditure relates to the settlement of the outstanding debt from past years to health care, i.e. to the recovery of HZZO debts and clinical hospital centres of 3.3 billion kuna. The maximum amount of 1.7 billion kuna refers to the payment of prescriptions according to 445 pharmacy and 1.4 billion kuna is paid for stationary health care according to 170 different suppliers of KBCs and... means for certain debts of hospitals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Also, payment of 115 million kuna was made according to 434 drugstores for orthopaedic aid debts. And the amount of HRK 71 million was paid to various legal and physical persons on behalf of the due debt for sickness benefits. While the amount of HRK 36 million was paid to the Croatian Institute for Transfusion Medicine. The above amounts have been paid from long-term bank loans, which we have committed to up to 3.3 billion kuna. In the first half of this year, subsidies are higher by one billion kuna compared to last year but are exclusively for faster dynamics, incentives payments, mainly in agriculture, a certain part also after the upgrade, a certain part also to railway subsidies due to their restructuring and subsidies to a specific HABOR. So HABOR is in the first term, the government has received 300 million kunas where it gave a clear message that Croatia is the Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the bank that will actually encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Also, at the annual level, increased expenditure on interest expenditure amounting to 464 million kuna and pension expenditure of 461 million kuna as a result of the indexation of pensions was also recorded. Costs for employees are 10.8 billion kuna and are lower by 365 million kuna or 3.3% as a result of the reduction in the coefficients by 3% since April 2013 and the impact of the introduction of centralised wage accounting. The expenditure on assistance has been increased by 140 million kuna, also... faster financing of public inter-urban transfer of students, while the costs for the purchase of non-financial assets have been increased by 222 million kuna due to the accelerated construction of border crossings and other capital projects in science. In view of the reasons described above, the increase in expenditure, the deficit in the first part of the year is 11.4 billion kuna or 3.4% of GDP, which is primarily due to the recovery of health care and faster payout dynamics for agriculture. If you actually eliminated these two effects in that part means the deficit would move somewhere around 7 billion kuna, which is what we actually had very close to last year. I'd just like to say two more briefs, and they're actually related to budgeting somewhere on 30.9. So the revenues are in the first nine months, very short, 79.6 billion, expenditures 92.9 and the deficit is 13 billion kuna. What results from the rise in deficits in the 9th month relative to the 6th month is the effect of entering the European Union, which was actually expected because this year was the adjustment of business on the single European market where one of the biggest effects was on VAT where imports from previous systems where we weren't on the single market were actually paid on imports, and now it's actually an accounting category, so business as on the Croatian market, and this effect will have a negative effect on the state budget around billions of kuna because it is actually in that part, but that billion kuna has actually remained in that part of the economy where liquidity has been facilitated. So when importing goods and services means that part was actually not paid immediately, but actually through the accounting category now that part of the correction is executed and then actually it is liquidated that billion in the economy, and it certainly affected VAT revenues. By entering the European Union, the Government of the Republic of Croatia also accepted this possibility of using reverse charge at VAT for constructionists, so-called the sad transfer of the tax liability to the recipient. This liquidity relief has also affected the builders that they are, for example, In July and August used this part of about 2.2 billion kuna tax base around 500 million kuna in this part of VAT was actually liquidated to construction that is also in serious problems so that it could liquidally achieve positive effects on its economic growth. And what's important is, by the end of the year, since we're doing business in a single customs area, we'll certainly have less income than customs. By the end of the year as we are now on the single customs market, we only have customs with third countries. When compared to last year, we will have between this year and the end of the year about 600 million kunas less income simply because there are no more customs duties, but it is also money that last year Croatian businessmen had to pay, this year they don't pay it, and in that part we say again that it is liquid as negative as these effects are on the budget because you don't have them on the side of the income. These are some, we can look at them and positive measures of entering Europe because these money has remained in the economy, and in this way we think that in fact the economy will actually have these money that are actually and as regards reinvested profits and contributions, as regards increasing the VAT threshold system and these parts that are improved as regards the absence of customs and this effect and VAT that will have a strong impact on the economy, that this part will remain and that the first effects of the economy and economic growth will actually be seen at the beginning of 2014 because the simple effects that are actually in this part of the budget mean in the problems, means that when we speak very simply we return our short-term responsibilities, liquidity is satisfactory on the market because there are many liquid assets. As much as we are satisfied on one hand with the banking part that they are accessible to the state but it also encourages us that banks should turn to the economy and finance of the economy and in that part where that wheel is actually a banking part to say that then we will certainly have positive effects not only on this part of what we see on the public finances but also on the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51251	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. And now a set of replicas. The first replica and respected representative of Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51252	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, you have spent considerable time, in fact, explaining the different possible and expected effects that will come from the budget, but we do not see these effects either in the economy or in the budget itself. This means that in the first nine months as you have informed the public, revenues are a billion and 600 million kunas less than it was last year. I'm planning to remind you of this year's 3.5 billion kuna revenue increase. So in 15.10, today, the question is how and how are you going to make up for the missing revenues in the budget from now on 5.2 billion. So compared to our previous debate before summer, missing revenues are constantly moving between 5 and 6 billion kunas. This means that for so much as a threat, the increase in deficits that you planned from 10 billion kuna, and it came to 13. You keep mentioning that it's all planned and expected, and if it's planned and expected, why isn't it written in the budget? You say that the planned and expected loss of VAT revenue was due to the entry into the European Union, and how when you planned to increase VAT revenues of 2.3 billion kuna, and after the summer, the increase was only 90 million. My question, Mr. Deputy, is as well as the Minister before the summer, how and how will this year's budget be closed? How and in what way will missing income and breakthrough expenses be compensated? And how and how will pensions and wages be paid in December and November? [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51253	Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51254	I appreciate the question. About this last one, I'd like to leave right now. So it's not questionable at all when we're talking about paying off pensions like I said here. This government, regardless of the difficult economic situation, has made an indexation of pensions and is worth 460 million kuna. So as far as paying off all salaries and pensions from the budget is concerned, there is no question. Regarding the increased incomes that we were talking about on a daily basis and we made a let's say a new model within the IRS and reorganized in such a way that believe me I couldn't even believe how much more space there is to actually be, I wouldn't say what unfortunately goes on in public as a tax press, but a better organisation of work pays for the income. I'll just give you an example, for example, of bankruptcy that unfortunately lasts over 12, 13, 14, 15 years where the IRS only charged 2%. The tax administration will now be much more active in the collection of our incomes where we will go with changes towards creditors that we actively participate in the collection of all revenues, meaning both from the part of bankruptcy and from the part of the pre-price settlement and from the part of the reprogramme and means a completely new reorganisation that the emphasis is actually on revenues, and in fact it will show how successful we will be very soon by the end of the year, whether these plans that we have actually imagined in the Tax Administration, whether or not they will come true. Well, I'd like to ask you to wait a little longer until the end of the year to see if these measures will actually produce results. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51255	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Honorable representative Ivan Shuker and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51256	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, you've tried to broadly elaborate to justify certain tax changes. However, let's clear up this glorification a little, as you gave the Croatian economy 2 billion and 700 kuna with a 2% reduction in contributions. That's just not true. Of these 2 billion and 700 kunas, 600 million kunas are spent on salaries paid out of the state budget and you have thus practically reduced your expenditures by 600 million kuna. When you take how many of these contributions are spent on salaries in state-owned public enterprises, on local self-government units and their utility companies. And when you add to that the financial sector is banking and non-banking, insurance companies, telecommunications will turn out to be out of these 2 billion and 700 is just about 500, 600 million to put it this way ended up in the real sector and that's about a couple of tens of thousands of kuna per company. And you'll have to admit that these tens of thousands of kuna can't trigger any investment activity. So, it's just one of the failed tax moves that reduced the revenues of the state budget of 2 billion and 700, you have effectively achieved nothing. And you can say that you've sent 2 billion to the economy. That's just not true. Take a look at the budget, and you will see that you first helped the spending side of the budget because in this way by administrative means you have practically reduced expenditures by 600 million kuna. And also when you talk about income tax. It's not true that the effects are better charged than you said. The effects of higher income from income tax are a change of class. So, you're all salaries that are over 6000, above practically 5,000 kuna before tax on income tax, burdened with higher taxes. And another thing. Look only at the implementation of the 2012 budget so you will see how much tax return is reduced on income and that is the effect of that. And as for the central salary account, so everyone in Croatia knows that practically nothing has been done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51257	Thank you very much. Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51258	I appreciate the question. Well, I would immediately start again from this last one, as you said, that the central salary account has not been done, so we're very spotlessly announcing that there are over 40,000 civil servants, so as I recall, as well as you respected representatives, you're actually on the central salary account, in the FINA, hospitals are going at the end of this month, so this part of you right here, I'm defusing it. So you're actually receiving from that central salary account and all the ministries. So much for that part. It's all about contributions. Look, when we say we're an uncompetitive country, then most of the time we're saying that we're expensive gross labour prices and it's hard to determine that you're not going to cut the gross labour price for the state and you're going to cut it by the economy. It's just impossible. But what I actually showed in the introduction that last year actually these contributions were the most significant structure of income. And that's what we're actually telling us all the time that we're either uncompetitive or through contributions and pension and health can't be the biggest income structure in the budget, and we saw that part we said we had to unload and that part we had to move and make it easier for the economy. One piece of information. From 7 to 9 months, we are doing better than in the same period last year, so what I am backing up means better discipline to contribute in 7, 8 and 9, 10 months this year are better than in the same period last year when it means, if we compare the rate at the same level. And that's why I said that the contributions, when we talked about large amounts, were actually 700 million kunas that were smaller than the first half of 2011. So as far as the contribution is concerned, it certainly is an effect and a measure which is an aid... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51259	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. New replica and respected representative, Vice President of the House Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51260	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, you've said something that in the last few days in television interviews was very generously spoken by the minister, which is that the budget deficit is a good part of the health care recovery. That's just not true. First of all, it's not true that health care was even recovered. Health received 3.3 billion kuna, however, it is important to see where these money went. On the one hand, the health care lost somewhere between 2.7 billion kuna and 2.7 billion kuna simply because you reduced your contribution. Unfortunately, you have done nothing to help the economy and it is best to see that unemployment has not been reduced either. Here, 330,000 unemployed, and I don't think anyone in this country thinks it's going to the economy that's fantastic because it's been reduced by 2% for health care. But everyone knows that health care is significantly damaged. Secondly, it should be very clear that when we talk about losses then they amounted to 1.4 billion kuna last year, and this year somewhere between 600 and 700 million kuna. So, about two billion kunas are now created deficits in health care. And why are they created? They were created because no single structural reform was ever made. And, of course, when we have a situation where they're completely unrealistic and priced and everything else, then these debts will just pile up. So you haven't solved the health problem. Health care was not rehabilitated because no structural reforms were to be made. And if they were made, the situation would be different. In this state, only by party likeness have you put new renaissance managers and they, as I said a few months ago, will in six months or in a year be in an even worse position than they were before.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51261	Thank you very much. Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51262	I appreciate the question. So what I actually said through the disbursement of 3.3 billion kunas I said and the specification was actually what was paid, that prescription drugs were paid, that mostly suppliers were paid in that part of the sector so that it was total, so there were also certain sickness benefits, so that's the total amount of the so-called. These ariers that simply existed in the system. Structural reforms are currently being implemented in health care where the Ministry of Finance participates actively. Certainly the main role actually should and must be led by the Ministry of Health. We'll give maximum support in that part. And how complex the process of implementing structural measures in health is, that's what I've been telling you all along we're trying to mean that it's not just certain cutting and denying certain changes but real changes in health. But that's what we said that I think we still need to find a common consensus in all major structural reforms whether it's this or that power or yours that we need to find a common consensus there. So both health care and others. So all the suggestions that come to you are certainly for structural reforms in health on our part. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51263	A new replica and respected representative of the Sunana Glavak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51264	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, you said the reforms started, you're talking about health care, so I'm going to ask you to tell us clearly if it's true, you were talking about prescription drugs, that part of the debt or part of the money has been poured over on that resort, is it true that almost 210 days have not been paid on prescription drugs? That's exactly how you talked about changing tax policy this year. I'd say that by changing your tax policy, you actually killed the budget and that's why this last sentence of yours I assume you're calling for a consensus. I'll just remind you that we invited you to listen to the voice of reason, for example when you bid on VAT rates. So I'm just going to show one example that we're hearing these days that it's going to be swimming or it's going to be 13%. It's that VAT rate for some daily newspaper. Well, it's a good thing we didn't introduce newspaper counters, or 25 thousand word counters. So none of your measures you've proposed have gone to increase citizens' income, increase employment, credit rating is garbage, there is simply no active economic policy. I believe you won't deny it right now by going back to the past and putting it all down to some former governments because you will be denied by colleagues who will speak on behalf of the MPs' club that it just isn't. The only thing you're announcing, specifically, is the sale of state property, and I'd say tax policy follows what we can say about the government going from bad to worse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51265	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51266	Thank you. So I wouldn't agree with you when you were actually talking and when you're actually saying that in that part of tax policy, so tax policy is all the time and through these changes was to encourage the economy. And all the time we've been trying to say that the public finances situation isn't alarming, it's not dramatic. So we're in one environment to just look at the countries around us to be in even worse situations. So we haven't decided on drastic cuts, we haven't decided because the state generates one economic growth through its own consumption. So we haven't decided on measures like many financial institutions and rating agencies actually proposed that we simply cut 20, 30% of the salary and that 20, 30% we actually cut in certain parts like some countries around us because we felt that we weren't going to achieve the effects in that part. And these countries mean excessive savings and excessive cuts have shown in EU countries that they have not given these measures. So, the government's been trying to actually do this hard and entering into this part of Europe all the time, but giving a boost to the economy actually all these benefits that we're talking about here all the time and the results will be seen no matter how much anyone bids the results will be seen. And if economic growth starts, it will certainly be much simpler to manage public finances. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51267	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Đuro Popiè and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51268	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, you have directed a good part of your speech according to the argument that you have done everything for the Croatian economy. If 2012 could be a reflection of what we were doing in 2013 it is directly you have to agree already on the reflection of your policies, which is over 330 thousand unemployed. And here's only one data drop in industrial production in the 7th month compared to last year that I'm not saying how much this is compared to 2011 or 2010 more than 5%, these are the effects of your policies and your measures on the economy. And it doesn't take a lot of economic brains to figure out what tax policy for the Croatian economy you're leading. You also mentioned an interesting thesis so that you increased the consensus for VAT entry and mentioned countries in the environment, which you did not mention the EU countries and mentioned that there is a consensus of 35,000 euros there. But you said that because I don't know how many thousands of people came out or small, medium-sized entrepreneurs or craftsmen from the VAT system that have become competitive, does this mean that you are directly acknowledging that the VAT increase in Croatia to 25% directly affected Croatia's economy and directly affected the dramatic decline of the competitiveness of the Croatian economy and thus all the consequences we see in your budget today?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51269	The reply to the replica, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51270	Thank you. So about this part of the VAT entry, thank you for asking, I did not deliberately talk about EU countries because they have not this one you said 35 but lower, see that Germany has 17 000 euros, the Netherlands has about 2,000 euros and some other countries have lower rates for entering the VAT system. I did not purposely show them because they are not in this part of the competitiveness for the opening of small and medium-sized enterprises cross-border cooperation. That is why I was talking about our region so that small and medium-sized enterprises would not cross the border in Slovenia or into some other country in Hungary so as not to open small and medium-sized enterprises precisely because of this VAT burden. That is why I said that in this part of Croatia is more competitive than our region and that entrepreneurs will stay and open in this part of Croatia rather than in the region. And EU countries have even lower thresholds. And about this part of the increase in the general VAT rate, so here I told you and you saw when this part of the VAT fell from 25 to 10% that certain parts of the VAT were priced and not adjusted down so that, even with the increase, we also felt that in this part of the relief where you don't have a customs duty where you don't have this part of the VAT that the entrepreneurs could certainly create the internal reserves so as not to increase certain transfers of these prices to citizens. And by entering the EU and releasing all these charges, there is certainly a significant space to cut that part of the VAT if we know that the general rate somewhere around 800 million kuna was from 23 to 25% and in fact if you see that we are only customs which next year will not be over billions of kuna means that there is certainly a significant space for entrepreneurs to return their prices as they were at 23%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51271	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Frano Matušić and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51272	Thank you, Mr. President. There is a paradox on stage in Croatia today. Since the takeover of power, the Kukuriku coalition was led by the first Deputy Prime Minister until he went to prison afterwards by cashier Linic. And it's really paradoxical that his representative is coming here to tell us on the basis of a half-yearly report that they were planning and expecting this condition that we are in today. To say that the planned and expected deficit of 11 billion in the first six months is simply not true. Your documents in the budget for the Croatian budget for 2013 made it clear that you planned a deficit of 10.5 billion kuna, and in the first 6 months you already had a deficit of 11 billion kuna. So who do you deceive today on this day when you have a half-yearly report from which it is clear that everything is down, that the state is going bankrupt. It seems that cashier Linic has a problem with pluses and minuses because for 2012 he said that GDP will grow by 2% over 2%, but at the end of the year we had minus 2%, so it's not plus 2% but minus 2%. For 2013, it announced a 1.8% GDP growth seems to be at least 1.8% in the end. So plus and minus you need your cashier Linic to learn what the difference between plus and minus is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51273	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Deputy Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51274	Thank you. I just don't want to answer to a minister like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51275	New replica and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51276	Thank you very much, President. I listened very carefully to you and I can get the impression that you at the Ministry of Finance have no concern about what you said during the first 6 months of the budget, but the reality in Croatia is different. Croatian citizens have concerns and they are not happy about this story. And what's the problem? The problem is that you tell them lies every day, so you keep doing it today. If I could read you the slide from the government when you projected the i.e. to represent the 2013 budget, you would have caught yourself in a lie. And there's a nice note on one page of that most important part, the macroeconomic analysis, which will happen in 2013, says growth of 1.8%. That would mean some kind of surplus, some kind of extra money. And what do we have on the other side? Today it's 15.10. at the Employment Office we have a number of unemployed as at the end of the 10th year so 15 days before we have the same number of unemployed as last year. So what kind of economic measures are these where you say we gave 2.5 billion reduced health contributions to entrepreneurs, and we get 60,000 new unemployed? Says the finance minister I threw 3 billion in the wind on VAT for tourism. And then I'm in charge of three billion per interest of 6% to pay it back. So I'm in charge of 2.5 billion interest of 6% to pay it back. So what kind of economy is that? So why are we going so forward? Not to say public debt, never bigger in history than 190 billion. In only two years your government has 40 billion. 40 billion. And all the time you're talking, there's no borrowing. So you need to stop saying the truth. Tell the Croatian citizens what it is. [[Thank you. Thank you very much.]] It'll be easier for them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51277	And it's a clear replica. Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51278	Thank you. If at least someone is speaking in this part and very clear figures and a concrete state, it means not even saying any praises on the one hand but also not being dramatically dramatic is actually the Ministry of Finance. When you were talking about the debt that increased by 40 billion kuna, public debt, you know that last year was the first time the deficit was reduced from 15 as it was, so 2011 to 10 billion and as far as the deficits of the state itself, so mathematically, it couldn't create it. It is unfortunately created by public companies because by taking over public companies' debts, it means by taking over debts as you know 9 billion shipbuilding and taking over the debt of the pension fund and this part of the health care sector, it all goes into public debt. And what we're going to need further to make it possible for the railroads. Unfortunately, this part of the public debt that is growing is growing solely because of poor financial indicators in public enterprises, meaning not because of the central state. So in that part of the central state is at the level where they're actually satisfactory, so about, so when we talk between 3 and 4%, which is actually one reality that's around us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51279	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51280	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy in discussions on the implementation of the budget, which is of course 6 months, it is transitory but has shown certain trends that you have clearly indicated but also facts with today's date suggest that the stability of the budget and financial situation in the state is very good, i.e. there is absolutely no need for any debate in a negative sense as colleagues from the opposition are expected to debate. But what I may have expected in your opening statement was about the impact and there was no impact of pre-profit settlements, that is, the Financial Business Act, which, apart from the measures already listed by the Government towards the economy, the reduction of health care, profit tax, etc., are pre-profit agreements other than which are important for the survival of what the jobs are and can only be if there are companies where the state is extremely not only coming out to meet the economy but is doing absolutely everything in its capacity and in negotiations with banks to ensure the survival of key companies and companies that we have inherited and are private from the former authorities that it is not resolved. And it is important that jobs are saved and there is certainly a large part of the revenues for the state budget, which is for the collection of what has not been charged so far, especially in terms of the plan and the charge that could be after the pre-departure settlements have ended.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51281	Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51282	Thank you. That's right, so the law that we said was very important for the economy of the Republic of Croatia and where I thank again all the clubs that supported it here because the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement is one consensus for saving the economy where the results are clearly visible, where the liquidity with 45 billion kuna is now at about 34.6 billion a year. Where are actually a number of companies that were also construction firms and you know what we're talking about, we're talking about both the Designer and a number of other companies that simply couldn't do the work because they were blocked. And that's why the whole year 2012 was a battle for the builders to take off but it was a problem because in order for one bank to unblock and the other one to block and you know that the constructor and other construction companies had come out positively of the pre-bank settlement, that they were working, working and seeing every day and that certain shares were ending. So the effects of pre-fashion settlement are seen both numerically and economically. And that their full effect will actually continue because I still think that this is the most important step in saving the economy except for that part of the economy that we said about unloading the pre-fashion deal is over 40,000 jobs that we're saving at the moment in businesses that just didn't have a perspective until before that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51283	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. It is up to the esteemed representative Goran Maric and a new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51284	Thank you very much. Mr. Lalovac, is there anything that happens without you expecting? I haven't experienced anything that's happened without you expecting it. And in the official, most important document of the Republic of Croatia, the most important financial document still stands for economic growth and you say you expect an economic downturn. I can't do that, two things connect in no way. You say Croatia is extremely competitive. I got caught up in it. Croatia shoots at competitiveness, the whole of the European Union and your so-called countries. The regions tremble with the strength of the Croatian economy. We are forbidden to enter tens of thousands of peddlers with Croatian goods at borders because these highways cannot bear Croatian goods anymore. On foreign exchange fights for shares of Croatian companies due to increased competitiveness and increased production. And in fact, just two data, read it, you'll see what your tax discharges have brought. The official data, the share of taxes on products reduced for subsidies in the total gross social product in 2011 was 14.2% and in 2012. 15.1% So much for the tax relief of the economy. That discharge also led us to have 17,000 more unemployed today than on the same day of 2011. That's why we have a deficit at nine months higher than any year at an annual level, bigger than in the worst years of the crisis. These are all your measures, God forbid they were neutral, but they were devastating.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51285	Thank you very much. Replication response, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51286	Thank you. Well, unlike you, I believe in Croatia and believe in Croatian companies that what you said about the region is that we are not competitive and that no one wants to buy Croatian companies' values shows that we can be leaders in the region and according to some of these transactions that our largest companies have actually done both towards neighbouring countries and towards investment. So there is a lot of potential in Croatian companies, and I would simply not be there if I didn't believe in both Croatia and Croatian companies. So much for competitiveness. When I was talking about competitiveness, I was talking about the comparison in 2013 compared to 2011 where these effects are visible in the budget where I explained why the budget minuses are in order to be able to improve and still be better than the region and actually to invest there, and in fact how successful we will actually be will actually be at the end of the mandate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51287	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. The tenth replica and respected vice president of Nenad Stazic's home is next.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51288	Dear Deputy Lalovac, in this opening statement of yours, I lacked one broader context, one analysis of the conditions under which we even bring budgets and under what conditions we must implement these budgets. The fact that we have to return 11 billion interest per year per old, according to the government's HDZ duties, is being objected here today by former ministers who have not worked but have visited the world in debt to Croatia, today your government must repay these debts. While they were in charge of Croatia, their boss Sanader and their HDZ party were stealing. They were stealing, so today they're answering in court, and today they're giving you some sense here. Well, we're listening to this Maric cynicism, so my colleague Maric, because you haven't been so smart for eight years, so you've been giving such advice to your government, so there wouldn't be this state of affairs in the country if you'd shown your senses when it was an opportunity for that mind, but today we have to listen to your cynicism. Today we have to listen to that 3.3 billion kunas given to health care that doesn't mean anything, that doesn't mean, where did these 3.3 billion people come from? ... Today, we must even listen to Matusic's tampering about Chancellor Linic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51289	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51290	Mr. President-in-Office of the Croatian Parliament, therefore, Article 238 has been injured because the representative opts out of the usual behaviour in the assembly since he is not replicating the government's representative but is addressing the HDZ representative. He doesn't have the right to replicate that way. And now it's happening to us by not knowing already what time a parliamentary representative who is likely to exist would be the bearer of recognition for a micro immoral act because for 7 kuna he spent a month on Brijuni at the expense of taxpayers, he's now giving lessons to everyone here in the assembly what they are and how they should do. Well, sir, I've had enough of that. You are not a man who can tell others about morality because you have a great burden on your back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51291	Well-respected representative. Your Honor, I'd like you to take a look at your speech on the breach of the Rules of Procedure and the principle you've given. I would really like that because, by complaining to my fellow Stazić, it was a miracle to listen to what you were objecting to, and you reported a breach of the Rules of Procedure. It really doesn't make sense, it doesn't make sense. Anything other than saying it doesn't make sense would be beyond the standard in the Croatian Parliament again. No injuries to the Rules of Procedure, you know that yourself, but you used the institute to replicate something that, okay. We're going to discuss clubs. ... Yes, but out of time. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No, no. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're going to a club debate. It is the club of independent representatives and respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51292	Your Honor, Mr. President, Mr. Deputy. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51293	You'll get a chance. Mr. Representative, hold your breath. The next chance is for all your replicas. Don't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51294	Thank you. Mr. President, Deputy Minister, gentlemen representatives. If not the largest, then certainly among the largest financial authorities in the Republic of Croatia Professor Bozidar Jelic said about this, that Linic recently in one interview, whether it was in the morning or in the evening or in some third list, that Mr Linic does not have a good move and that what he is doing, that at this point he is actually choosing between the least bad and it is simply the point, he wanted to agree or not, the fact is that he simply has these financial parameters and moments I dare say the same thing. This is when we talk about this budget, i.e. The execution of a grudge. For example. Why let and let... the ministries spend incomparably less than planned. Clearly, it doesn't need to be thrown away, but what's odd to me at least, the Ministry of Economy planned has a billion and 800 million kuna, the execution of 288 million kuna, 15.7%. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship of Mr. Maras 700 million kuna planned, execution of 70 million kuna, for the first 6 months of only 10%. Tourism ministry 281 million kunas planned annual income. Realized in 6 months 104 million kuna, 37.2%. Environmental protection 390, accomplished 143 million or 36.8%. The Department of Construction realized 30% etc. In agriculture, we know why the situation is reversed. They realized 61% in six months, the Department of Administration 48%. The health ministry, although we hear daily about strikes for the first six months, realised 64% of the projected funds at the annual level of 21 billion kuna. The Ministry of Social Policy, the judiciary, I don't know about 50% as well as normal. What exactly am I trying to say? Those who may need to move Croatia more strongly in my opinion do not spend what they have on the disposition. And as I worry about what to say about this budget of the Republic of Croatia, as it offends me and throws me away, it doesn't matter whether at local level or somewhere else, I'm worried about the indicators of some, not some, but a lot of Croatian companies, for which again, the question of who is actually responsible. But I believe the least of it is the government. Croatia has lost 150,000 production jobs in the crisis. In the same period from 2008 to today, the number of non-production jobs increased by almost 400,000 whether it was Istria, whether it was Slavonia or other parts. And Istra lost in that period of 12,000 jobs, and the number of non-productive as calculated by me was increased by 6 hundred. In Croatia about 30,000 or more. However, what do I want to say as well? Here we go, let's say Istra the paradigm of the economic moment. For the first 6 months of 2013. The oil man cut the proceeds in half. Last year's profit of 4.7 million kuna was replaced by a loss of 105 million kuna. He split the size of the deal for 500 million kuna. Who's to blame? Is that what the government is to blame? I doubt it. What happens in tourism? Those who do more show greater loss and vice versa, who do less even show profit. Who's to blame? Is this where the government is to blame, Adris? The profit of 133 million kuna reduced to 38 million kuna for the first 6 months or by 701%. But come on, they don't need to be taken care of. Drastically increased losses of Arena tourists, Riviera Adria from Poreč, Sailing Oil, etc. I'm talking about big companies, I almost dare tell national monopolies. If the situation in Istria is so different, it must not be better. The Istrian Credit Bank, a small good bank, has halved six months' profits as has happened to all other Croatian banks who earn less 40% compared to the same period last year. And what do I want to add to that? For the first six months, only one national company, THT of all Croatian banks, made a bigger profit. All Croatian banks in six months made a profit of billions and 200 million kuna, and THT billion and 300 million kuna. What about the twists, the weakest link? There's a problem, indeed, really painful. I'll say again, for example, in Istria of 5227 companies in the end of June in the blockade were about 2.4 billion kuna. But that's where I might be. The year is hard, the year is uncertain. What will be 2014 remains to be seen. The IMF forecasts GDP growth 1.5%, the government forecasts growth 1.3%, Zagreb Bank and other banks 1%. I don't know, somebody says it's gonna be harder. However, something is happening with the Croatian economy, and that is actually the point. With all unpopular measures, although it is true that the economy has been left with 7 to 8 billion kunas after these pre-fashion settlements have been introduced, after reducing this contribution to the Croatian Health Insurance Office, after some parafiscal impositions have been corrected today we have that insolvency has fallen by 9.8 billion kuna to the same period last year. So 15 thousand business entities are less blocked today in 2013 than in 2012. They still employ 46060 workers but the debt fell for those 10 billion kunas to $44.7 billion. And that's a fact. Second, 274700 business entities were registered at the end of June 2013. Of that number, 53.7% or 147600 are active. That's 10,000 more than 2012. In 2012, there were 134,000 active and some of these companies. However, in the case of crafts, it is not good, because in June 2013, 9900, 2012 was registered. 93300, early 2008. 101400. What will be next year remains to be seen. It's just not gonna be easy, but someone's still talking about next year's deficit. Yes, and it will certainly be a billion kuna because it is due to pay the EU's 4.7 billion kuna ticket, it needs to pay an additional 2 billion kuna for interest, it needs to be adjusted by collective agreements, pensions for an additional billion kuna, and that is the 7 billion kuna. And who's going to pay the price, and that's the point. Who always pays the price, who always pays the highest price? They're citizens. And it should simply be underlined. What, on the other hand, someone was on the right, so VAT in tourism is 10%? I don't know, I'd rather adjust VAT textiles to the wood industry than tourism. But what I'm saying is, what about wages and prices? The purchasing power collapsed in 2006. Right, the salary grew in the period 2008 over here but mostly because of that, why? Because we lost 150,000 jobs. Where? In that real sector that was the most underpaid and that always brought down the average. If average salaries in that period of 6 years increased by 5.8% with inflation in 5 years from cca 15%, that means that purchasing power is 10 to 15% lower than it was before the crisis. From 2008 to 2012 salary increased from 5178 kuna to 5478 kuna, by 5.8%. And inflation was 6.1% in 2008. 2.4%, 2010. 1.1%, 2011. 2.3%, 2012. 3.4%. Or the prices went up by 10.15 in that period, as some, perhaps more, wages increased by 5.8%. Of course, the lucky ones who got them neatly. And it is fortunate that during that period the Croatian banking system was stable. What does Croatia's entry into Europe mean? We all said hi, but I'm afraid we're gonna go down a little bit first so we can just go up the quotes the next day. We lost the Russians because of visas this year, we lost the Ukrainians. Another dream is tourism income without fiscalisation from 2008 out of 7.5 billion kuna but exports to CEFTA fell by 6.4% in the first half of 2013 or approximately 500 million kuna. And what does that mean? That only because of the loss of CEFTA, which is the price of joining the EU, we will lose a billion kuna this year, and that will then draw perhaps two, maybe three thousand production jobs with our brother. And finally, if Croatia had not freed the economy from either the government or the parliament, however anyone, politics, the 7,8 billion kuna, it is certain that the opportunities would be far more difficult. I don't think it's particularly those small business entities who are to blame for anything. In fact, they've exhausted all the reserves, in the stockings there's no money, many to survive they've sold out their private assets, not just the property of the company. And without the movement of Europe and all around us, we ourselves are simply ill-written. I'm also going to say openly I don't understand what a 10% VAT is, and textiles are, say, 25% or 25% wood growers. We need to rationalise public general but also state and local self-government. The fact is that next year's deficit will be higher than in 2013 precisely because of those moments I mentioned. We have to cut down the costs. The state has the impression that it saves more than maybe a local self-government that sometimes, even out of pride, doesn't just know what to do. Public enterprises also have the impression that they are being disintegrated, and a clear lack is always being served by new responsibilities. But the question is, how far? In 2013, we were in charge of 21 billion, 2012 for 15, and we have to return 29.3 billion kuna. And it will be very clearly difficult, but therefore no surprise should be given to some new moves, from the monetization of highways, because the new 18 billion kuna simply in the 2014 budget, 2015 and 2016 which should be returned simply does not exist unless we want to work without pay, or live without pensions. So, we have before us this implementation of the budget for 1.01.-30.06. I can quote Professor once more. Bozidar Jelic, who says that simply this ministry has no good moves and that he is in a situation and also because of the legacy of choosing him least badly. Equally, we will have to get all serious at all levels from local to national level, from municipal or public systems and beyond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51295	Prof. I'll have a dear colleague. Yes, not Jelic. Thank you very much. We have registered replicas, Your Honor. The first replica and respected representative Josip Boris. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51296	Thank you very much. Well, I listened very carefully to you, dear colleague Cain. This was an independent expert on the impact of the budget in the first six months. I managed to remember this, we need to get down there to go upstairs. Yeah, that's what you said we need down there to go up then, and said one Polish philosopher like this, "I just thought I came to the bottom, and then somebody knocked on the other side." It happens to us every year, and especially these two last since you support this government very fiercely and all of its... So you have so supported all the laws that today you would find that all companies in Istria are, in particular, those more sound names in losses and then... so it's all something to inherit some kind of history, some bad, worst decisions than any good possible. I will remind you what the Prime Minister said when he represented the budget to stop transferring responsibility to everyone else, i.e. avoid own, and he said at the 2013 budget presentation "This is the end of our work in the beginning of 2012. The next year is a difficult year in which we must show both citizens and ourselves and investors that this is a serious country in which we are serious. This is our government and all the successes and failures are ours," that's the only important truth to be told here. This is all your failure and it's over.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51297	That's not what Bozidar Jelcic said. Okay. [[Intruder: No, that's what the prime minister said.]] The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51298	I mentioned among other things the fact that exports to CEFTA in the first half of 2013 dropped 6.4% for 64m euros. This is among other things the fact that Croatia has joined the EU. It won't just be based on one billion kuna. I was saying, among other things, that due to our entry into the EU, we must have lost an additional few billion kunas due to the absence of Russians or Ukrainians. And who's to blame? Maybe it's the tourism ministry's fault that they didn't issue visas at the airports themselves, maybe they did it, maybe they did it. But because of CEFTA, no one blames us for this government or the former government or the future government. But only on that basis will we lose several thousand production jobs. And, Mr. Representative, I've been saying the same thing and I've been doing the same thing I've done since day one, and there are countless of these mandates in this House. The HDZ, however, always does the same but always predictable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51299	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51300	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my dear colleague Cain, I have listened carefully to you, and in the end, I don't think anyone can conclude whether you support or support the fiscal and economic policies of this government. But what we would expect from you, given that you represent Istria, is that you come from Istria, which is in a significantly better position than most of Croatia because it rests on entrepreneurship and crafts, I would expect that you cannot agree with the ministry whose Minister of Finance, Mr. Linic, accuses entrepreneurs of not investing, that they do not work openly on television, says that he has taken away the citizens of this country billions of kuna, gave them to entrepreneurs and craftsmen, and they have therefore not taken advantage of and did not invest, and they have not opened new jobs, and that is, in the end, we have an economic downturn. So despite all of this, you talked about next year's plan, but imagine a country where the government plans two years in a row and misses several percent of economic growth, so it plans 1.8%, so it happens minus 2%, and then for this year again 1.8% after the 2% drop has been achieved and we will unfortunately have a decline again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51301	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51302	I support this budget or I say this budget implementation for the first six months. I agree with you that an economy should not simply be called an economy like the same indisputable fact because of the historical circumstances of Istria in specific or different positions. God forbid they're all in as much trouble as we are, but someone thinks that life just started today, as if people who were in government until yesterday lived in another country, as if they were living and running Switzerland yesterday, and today there's another government that runs Croatia. True, during this period the Croatian government has not cut anything drastically, it may have been wrong, but it is also an uncontestable fact that atrocity is as always transferred to those who are the weakest, which are citizens. And through this one form, some economic money was left behind if it wasn't for an opportunity to be incomparably difficult, but these are certainly not grateful for anyone, because all those who have these small businesses know very well what kind of country we live in, how difficult it is to get to work and what opportunities they can expect in the next year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51303	New replica and respected representative Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51304	Thank you very much, Mr. President. So here I would refer to the presentation of my colleague Caine and I can't really understand that you speak today when you are in a different situation with just one new rhetoric, and in particular you say that you agree and support this implementation of the budget for the first six months, and you yourself said that Mr Jelcic said that this is a budget that simply cannot be satisfied by any aspect of its execution. On the other hand, you said 4.7 billion Croatia must pay the EU by joining the EU, but do you know what the biggest problem is? The problem is that Croatia and the resolution ministries will not succeed in withdrawing 4.7 billion kunas of those EU funds, and that is another problem of this government because the resolution ministries simply do not do what they need to do and the funds the European Union has given us will not actually use. And that is proof that this economy and all those who use these resources will be in a far more difficult situation than they are today. And so I'm really worried about what you're saying and I support this budget that today is 11 billion, excuse me in 6 months, which is already 13 billion and which is going to be 31. The 12th to be 16 billion. So dear colleague please explain to me how you can agree with that?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51305	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51306	So exactly what I said several times about a pay phone quoting Professor Bozdar Jelcic that Minister Linic doesn't have a good move, I quote: "...a beer between the smallest bad ones.". And that's the device of the matter. And we all know that everything here is more or less common in this country. So where was Croatia from 2003 to 2011 or until 2013? Inflation at the beginning of the crisis I said it increased 15%, the decline of the brother's GDP to the brother's cca. So 12 to 13%. Where's our problem? Well, we've had a precrisis of 150 thousand more jobs in manufacturing professions. At the beginning of the crisis, we have 150 thousand jobs here, but that's why 30 and a few thousand jobs more in non-productive occupations. In some counties, we get here even the headmasters as we call them down the hill... It's just a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're not going to talk about the problem of some earlier periods of conversion, I don't know, these plots of trial to the former prime minister and so on. But I agree with you in one thing that might happen to us in 2014 maybe not, but in the 15th, that we will withdraw less money from Europe than we will pay. And finally all citizens in Croatia need to know that when we withdraw, for example. One hundred thousand euros that 50% of this money is our ticket to Europe and by 2020, we will have 8.7 billion euros in disposition from which Croatian taxpayers will pay half of that amount through the state budget of Brussels. Half the money is our money.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51307	Thank you very much for your new replica and distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51308	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Cain apparently pressed with some poor economic indicators in Istria in his debate on behalf of the club you tried to be realistic. But I'm asking you one question right now you can think of what the deficit would be for the first six months that these ministries that you've listed, which have done 10, 15% as planned, would have now had a deficit of 13 billion and in 9 months would have a deficit of 15 billion. Maybe... And that's why certain expenditures aren't executive, but it clearly tells you where that ship has been leading us since the great deficit of the end of the year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You also said they released the economy for 7 to 8 billion kuna. Yes, they may have freed the economy but they didn't feel it and they didn't realize it. But those who have felt and are aware of this is that they have taken 7 billion from Croatian citizens based on the increase in VAT and with the basis of an increase in electricity, electricity and heating prices, and that is what Croatian citizens felt. All the time you've been saying the Russians didn't come. He's a colleague of Cain's, but the Turks came to the island of Krk and got a guarantee from the state for that 5m euros. And fellow Cain writes it in the documents, someone took 37, 38.5 billion euros, actually $38.5 million, so dear God doesn't know why and no one here is asking. So the Russians didn't come to spend the money, the Turks came to kindly take what was given to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51309	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51310	If the Turks came and took 5m euros from us, I don't know what Mr. Bajic is doing not to process or those Turks who took those 5m euros or those who simply made it possible for them. Here, yeah, right. Citizens, the burden has shifted to citizens of that 2% VAT. And you know who else is aware that he's profited greatly from VAT? He's been a professional in the tourism sector. Maybe at least the little one, but the big one sure is. There is also a question of where there is simply money missing from Croatia, how to come perhaps before we additionally tax the citizens? Maybe we should pay for this work on black. In one Austria on black, it works 7-8%, in Italy maybe 15%, in Croatia 30%. If 30% in Croatia is working on black, it is brother to brother 100 billion kuna. This is the first time with this VAT in tourism and I'm going to say publicly again, I'd rather correct the VAT textile industry, woodworking than these big tourist houses. But if tourism is 7 billion euros in that narrow sense in hospitality etc., 3 billion euros with this fiscalization and this VAT defacto work on black was not going to say reduced to zero, there is this space, but almost, almost zero. There are reserves, but there's just something that's been done to correct the VAT, that's to do with that fissalization. All in all, I think that something is changing, whether someone admits it or not, before I quoted how many thousands of newly formed companies we have, will it finally live to see in what way, but I also said that this government has gone hand in hand to reduce liquidity by 10 billion kuna even if the citizens of the stockings have been pulled out of the stockings... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51311	Thank you. Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51312	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, you said this government, or the state, is saving. So I would ask you to bring it closer and explain to us in response to the replica in which this government saves and why it buys cars, I-phone, new employment in state services and that party or politically similar, etc. In your special and colorful debate, you touched everything and everything, and the Russians, except the Turks, so Shucker warned you about the Turks, so I don't know how the Russians are coming, the Chinese are coming, how you thought the Russians were coming or not coming and where they come from, in Croatia, Serbia, as you think they are. I know that Russian investors were interested in Croatian projects but still the one who was serving time for a traffic accident in Hungary refused those same Russians who had certain plans with Croatia, so then the southern stream no longer exists for Croatia, etc. That should be talked about the work of this government that actually produced what I'm going to say in my debate, and sent me a Slavonic peasant in the form of a verse so I wouldn't want to abuse it this time, but in the debate I'll recite it to you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51313	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51314	Well, when I mentioned the Russians, then I thought about the Russians' not coming in the way that because of that fact, we lacked a certain tourist simple income and not a small one. In the streets, shops, shops, this year, unlike the previous ones, no Russian heard, and the Russians were one of our best consumers. God forbid the Russians and the economics are there, far more than they are in these areas. I agree with all those who say that we have a general state, that local self-government is too expensive for us and I agree that everything needs to be reconsidered, from Iphone to car. But here is also a recent analysis in one of the media where it is said that local self-government in total incomes, watch out for salaries is more than 30%, 35% are mentioned one Vrsar, one Grožnjan, one Zminj, Buje, Buzet, Pazin, Rovinj, Vodnjan, and there is also something we need to do about it, that some of the sites mentioned in '90. They had two employees in their years, and now they have 50 employees, that those who had 20 employees, but I'm going to say in that tight administration, in the administration, not public systems and communal companies, say now have 60 and so on. We simply need to do something about this, too, so we have to get serious, not just shift the burden to the weakest, whether it's about the citizens, whether it's about this little economy. I don't worry about the big ones too much, even though it's not easy for them under these circumstances, and we don't need to stay without them, even if we can help them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51315	We've exhausted the replicas and answers to the replicas. We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It's the HDZ club and the respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51316	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. Well, it's not good when we're discussing an important document like this about data that just doesn't write anywhere, but it's a product of some imagination just to justify some things. Therefore, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I will try to bring this debate into concrete contexts with numerical indicators and then we can discuss it and we will probably come up if we do not admit it publicly, but somewhere in the depth of the soul we will come to know that the situation in Croatia is extremely complex, extremely dangerous and that this political bickering will not help anyone. Because colleagues and colleagues, when you look at what this report brings us, I'm not going deep into any data, I'm only going to go with the result of this report, which is a deficit of 11 billion 432 million 285 thousands and 794 kuna, and the planned deficit for the whole of 2013 is 10 billion and 246 million. And if they were to bring it down to some kind of plan framework, it would mean some kind of deficit that would be within the framework of some plan for the first six months would be 5 billion and 120 million. And let's let in the first six months some fillings are more empty due to tax collection dynamics, but also some expenditures are lower due to cost dynamics, so let's say that the deficit would be about 6 billion kuna, but colleagues and colleagues are still 123% higher than planned deficits. And that's the real problem. Later on, when I look back at the state of affairs for the first nine months, then you'll see that this data is even more devastating. And what created this deficit? Have these deficits produced the results of this budget the structural reforms this government has taken? No, because if this government had taken structural reforms then the situation on the spending side would have been quite different because reducing expenditure can only be done if you take structural reforms, no different. The revenue side of the budget cannot be filled with tax increases, you can only impose and increase structural reforms, so to increase economic growth. So structural reforms are not something that produced this, but not implementing structural reforms is something that led to this deficit. Did the wrong economic policy and fiscal policy produce such a deficit? Yeah. Because all macroeconomic indicators tell us that unfortunately the error of economic and fiscal policy has led to negative economic growth, we have increased unemployment, we have a decline in industrial production, we have a decline in retail trade. So all indicators are negative, and the main instrument for implementing economic policy is the budget because when the budget shows you this enormously high deficit, then clearly you have no leverage with which to run the economic policy, you have the result you have. And the third thing is that... bickering, precisely because we don't want to accept the fact, we don't want to read the budget of what it tells us, which is what the results of certain tax laws, certain cuts and tax increases are, have they negatively affected the revenue side of the budget. They did. One totally wrong assessment of the reduction in the contribution, one totally wrong assessment of the VAT increase in order to compensate. It was lost somewhere in the fog with some kind of political introduction among the rates for some products, an increase of 0% to 5% of basic food products for citizenship that is bread and milk. So we've emptied those billions and 600, a billion and 700 effects from that increase somewhere. You don't know where. It just doesn't show in the budget. So these are the mistakes that led to all this. Also, if this government had continued the practice that was before, which is that by every third month, a report on revenue and expenditure is being submitted to the public, probably this debate would have prompted the government to make certain moves, because we practically saw no data on execution for the first 6 months until 7.8 months, we could only guess them. Companions and colleagues, whether the reduction in income tax revenue is due to the reinvestment of profits or the result of less profits in the private sector. And if you look at how much capital equipment has been imported and how much capital equipment has been produced in Croatia then that is the basis for increasing economic growth, then you will understand that the reduction in income from profit tax is not at all the result of the reinvested profits but, unfortunately, the result of the reduced profits of the private sector. It is also often mentioned that entrepreneurs received 2 billion and 700 million kunas from the reduction in contributions. That's the biggest lie. And now I'm going to give you information that's simply a fact and we can't get away from it, whether we want it or not to admit it. The biggest benefit of the reduction in the contribution was 2% of the state budget. Because when you take the state salary budget out of about 30 billion kuna and you take what is the basis for the calculation of 2% of the contributions, then you'll see that it's an annual savings savings of some 500, 600 million. Therefore, you add public companies, local self-government units and utility companies that have relatively high salaries compared to the Croatian average, then you will see that the health contribution sector has practically reduced their costs by a billion kuna. The next sector is the banking and non-banking sectors and telecommunications companies and some import companies and companies dealing with marketing that have relatively high salaries and you will get the information that the real sector based on reduced contributions may have received some billions of kuna. However, when you literally disintegrate a billion kunas and I will not use another word on over 2,000 users, then you realize that, unfortunately, it means nothing. A billion kunas when it's on the pile, it looks a lot, and when you waste them irrationally, it's unfortunately a waste of money. Why? If that measure had any effect, the entrepreneurs would say it was a good thing we did, but you didn't hear from any of the entrepreneurs that they did. What is yet to be said, which is to save on salaries of 2 billion kunas for the first six months cannot even be seen in the budget. You can see the reduction effect of 3% of 1.4, you see the health reduction effect of 2 months compared to last year and some other small things, and this will be 600, 700 million kuna at your annual level, and the government planned to reduce the amount by 2 billion in its projections. Why am I saying all this? So if you follow a little bit and you add it all up very quickly, you'll come up with a deficit of 6 and a half billion more than the government planned for the first six months. Health care, special story. Look, we're really pretending like nobody in this country knows. So let's look at the implementation of the 2011 budget, let's look at the 2012 budget, and you'll see that in 2012 there are 200 million less insurance than in 2011 for healthcare. You haven't taken any structural reforms in health care and you're saying that these 3 billion and 300 are the result of a health care recovery from some years ago. A part of that, but colleagues and health colleagues last year produced a billion and a half million losses. In the first six months of this year, 600 million losses were made. Therefore, these 3 billion and 300 unfortunately relate mostly to 2012 and partly to 2013. And colleagues and colleagues, I say responsibly here on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club such unstructured healthcare will result in a loss of billions and 100 million kuna at the end of this year. So because structural reforms have not been implemented and such a great recovery you will see the balance of 31.12 will be somewhere over a billion kuna. Also, certain administrative exhibitiones have reduced the expenditure side of the budget. So look at the example of Croatian railways, all wonderful, wonderful. Subsidies and incentives to the railways have been reduced by several hundred million kunas. However, when you take a closer look at the budget in particular the execution of 2012 and the execution of 2013, it is a very interesting thing. Last year, Croatian passenger transport approved 217 million guarantees for short-term credit, HZ Cargo 345, HZ Infrastructure 450. When you add up a billion and 100 together. No, you don't have them on the expense side of the budget, you don't have them in the deficit, but you'll have them in a year, two in the position of paid protested guarantees like you have this year in the first 6 months of 200 and a few million more paid protested guarantees that the companies in HZ haven't paid. It's a story that I have long since absorbed from this government, because they had the same system in renewal, and the same system they had with HH in 2003 with a billion-and-a-half kuna loan. But what may be most worrying, which is data for the first 9 months of 2013. So here we have warned that when we adopt the budget that there will be a problem with the withdrawal of value added tax from 1.7 to several months and that it will simply cause a deficit in the state budget. And if you look at it with that, the basis of the state budget by the end of the year will be more than a billion kunas. But it will also produce a government budget deficit that will certainly be over 50% compared to this year. What colleagues and colleagues should say when you look at the international level then you will see something that happened shockingly. In a quarter that is the strongest tax on value added tax, you have an annual reduction of 15%. It's the third quarter. The result is your deficit in 2013. But there's something I want to say here on behalf of the HDZ Club, a reduced rate of tourism has been introduced by the HDZ government, and that is, in 2007 right in tourism. It's an accommodation and a full board. What you've done, you've introduced a reduced rate but for hospitality. I'll say you introduced a subsidized stay at the beautiful catering facilities of Croatia for wealthy Austrians, Germans, Italians at the expense of poor Slavonian peasants, at the expense of poor employees of some companies who can't get paid. So, on their account. Because you've reduced their incentives to the name of that so that we can reduce these incentives in hospitality. So you subsidized the rich to take the poor. And that's a fact you can't escape from either. My colleagues and colleagues, if you look at a little better budget implementation, then you'll come up with some fragrant data that just makes a person worry and imagine what happens by the end of the year. We at the moment when we look at the budget have about 5.5 billion expenditures that will have to be implemented by the end of the year, which have not been made in some kind of dynamic over the first six months. And that's why colleagues and colleagues I suggest on behalf of the HDZ Club when you're already on your nose like you're running a 110-metre race with your groins, you've approached the amendments to the Constitution because of past or lex perkovic's advice, and I suggest you deal with the amendment of the Constitution with one life fact, which is so-called. "Golden rule" of the controlled deficit. I think it's something that's more life-like, which is more acceptable and will, unfortunately, solve the message of the future. If we don't solve this, we'll have a future announcement for our children with an enormously high deficit. So, as a whole, looking at the state budget's revenues in 2013 will be about 4 to 5 billion lower, expenditure will be around a billion kuna. And this is an increase in the state budget deficit of 50%, which has never been recorded in the history of the Croatian state compared to the plan. Just as we cannot escape now that our government budget deficit is for the first 6 months if we reduce GDP to a half-yearly level and deficit then our government budget deficit is 8% which has never been in the history of the Croatian state. My colleagues and colleagues, why am I talking about this 50% increase? Because the 50% deficit increase will be paid by all Croatian citizens. We will pay it through more expensive borrowing, will be paid by all Croatian entrepreneurs, all Croatian citizens who will raise housing loans through a higher rate of interest that they will pay for their indifference, because they were unable to do what needs to be done. And at the end of the day, co-workers and co-workers. With this project of 1600 kuna, several thousand young people have been employed by the party line in public enterprises and by several thousand people the number of employees has been increased. I'll talk about some other things later. These are the reasons why HDZ cannot accept this proposal for the implementation of this budget, regardless of the events that have arisen because, in the explanation of the applicant,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51317	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51318	Just one sentence, please. For reasons that the government's proposings simply did not highlight any measures that would save us from the enormous deficit at the end of the year.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51319	Thank you very much. You've received 16 replicas on your presentation, Your Honor. Dear Representative Ivo Jelusic, first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51320	Dear colleague Schuker, you are here on behalf of the HDZ Club wondering what is the deficit, how much greater it is compared to the planned one. And I'm surprised at you because you talk like you haven't been in power in eight years and you haven't been the finance minister in eight years. It's true that the deficit is higher by 4.3 billion than it was planned for the first six months, but out of that, 3.3 billion is your deficit. The deficit you have created, the deficit is the debt of health that you have left to this government. And this government as a responsible government has decided to finally resuscitate it, not spill it year after year. So that's what you left behind and we decided to finally pay it now and you're complaining about it. If you had run a deficit according to when it really came from business events, and not when it was paid then it would have really been seen to be your debt. So we just paid your debt, and that's why we've increased the deficit. Billions of course went to agricultural subsidies previously paid. Well, I guess it's not a sin if you give it to the farmers sooner than later. It was paid in the first term, it wasn't in the second half, it was supposed to be in the second half. So what, is that a sin? So you're talking about the deficit that you had 4 billion, 5 billion more deficits than the SDP of this government. And where did you work with him? Our deficit goes to pay interest on loans, and you've put half that deficit in consumption, and half the truth God and you on interest, but half in consumption. Therefore, when we talk about economic developments and deficits and general budgets, you must bear in mind that you are the ones who created these problems. If you had any regard for the citizens or shame, you'd be silent about these topics, all of you from HDZ. Because you brought Croatia into this situation where we are. Of this total economic downturn of 10%, 9% of index points are yours, just 1 of ours. Therefore, if you were ashamed, you would be silent. Since you're not talking, but when you're talking, we should actually just apologize for what you left behind. But if you don't want to apologize, if that's your problem then shut up, cover your ears and shut up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51321	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51322	I would advise you to read the document you are talking about first and if you read it then you would see for yourself that you have told the most common and notorious nonsense. But colleague Jelusic, your government has paid for some famous Clean Start. In that Clean Start, there's almost nothing here that you're talking about, so it's... facts. The second thing, counterpart Jelusic in the most critical years for the first 6 months and 2009 and 2010 and 2011.The deficit was not what it was. I said in my explanation what these 3 billion health debts are, however, you can resuscitate him as much as you want. This year you already have a minus of a billion and 100 million kuna. And you can blame it like this, but unlike some of the things you're accusing by heart, I said to my colleague Kajin that the Russians didn't come, but the Turks came, you have here in the protested guarantees in the report on the implementation of the budget made by your political option 38.5 million was paid to some of the characters, although it's not clear to anyone in Croatia why. Well, there'll probably be talk about it then. But let's put the ball down, let's discuss the facts. People who can't discuss the facts insult them, and those who insult them speak more of themselves than of those who insult them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51323	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Igor Radjenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51324	Thank you, Mr. President. So let's talk about the facts, said Mr. Shucker, first sentence I don't want a political debate, the situation is not good, so then he just gave such a speech rather uncritical during which it preceded this whole thing. Mr. Schuker, you know well that the deficit in 2011 was 15 billion kuna, so the deficit that preceded this government and that within that deficit around 7.6 billion were interest and the rest of the spending, as counterpart Jelusic said. The 2012 deficit was 4 billion less with a share of interest far higher, so the current revenues were almost to cover the current expenditures. The same plan is this year's budget, as well. And now we're talking about dynamics in the first six months, we're talking about 3.3 billion debts over 500 days old, the word 500 days itself tells you that from the old days most of the drugs are being talked about. And that's not all, we're waiting for county hospitals with about 2 billion and I'm livingly interested in what kind of debate will be when this master plan of Croatian hospitals that the Ministry of Health prepares will finally come along and I want to know what kind of debate will be on behalf of your club. If we exempt this dynamic, so these 800 million kunas of previously paid subsidies, it is therefore the same deficit as the previous year as the lowest deficit in history. So the 2012 budget is the only budget which, compared to the previous year, has absolutely expenditures lower than the year before and you know it well in all 20 years of business in Croatia. And another question I simply can't ask you as a former finance minister. You criticized this 10% drop rate to paraphrase you took from peasants you gave to Slavonian peasants. Incomes, I end up from retail and catering, traffic has been reported 7 billion already in the first 6 months, 14 billion more annually, as Minister of Finance to you or your successor Martini Dalic missed 14 billion kuna traffic? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51325	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51326	It's easy to talk about, and you don't know what you're talking about. In the tax administration's bookkeeping statistics, until the zero VAT rate was abolished, you didn't have a record of the turnover of bread and milk, so when you add bread and milk to the first 6 months or 5 months, you will see how much has been increased. The other thing you were also talking about is a list of debtors, which is the effect of all that together. After 15 months 500 million kunas charged. And when we talk about interest so that we don't turn out to be politicizing, take the 2011 budget and you'll see what it is... for interest and 2012 are interest and your government for 4 years and all HDZ governments before, and the increase in interest in 2013 is solely due to your duty. It's basic knowledge and you don't need to go any further. And another thing you should know is that the 2008 deficit was 2.5 billion kuna, and in 2003, the government had a deficit of 15 billion to 80 million kuna. And we could write all kinds of stories about it, but I'm saying we stick to the fact that we stick to the data and then we won't discuss anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51327	Dear Representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic and new replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51328	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear fellow Shuker, you were wrong in one time, and this government has launched a major reform, and this reform is called the sale of state property because I stress why. So after in 2012, we warned against raising taxes, what was expected happened, and this is an economic downturn not to say the economic downturn and the fall in the purchasing power of Croatian citizens. One of the consequences is the fact that our credit rating is in the trash today. As a result of today's credit rating is in the trash and the look negative is that our assets, all of us the state that's being sold out, are unfortunately worth less and less. So instead of new investments that would trigger economic growth and create new jobs, this government has launched a purely wave of privatisation. I am personally among the latest who would be against privatisation, however, so that it can be explained that the government whose finance minister is constantly speaking against the private sector is quoting the private sector insisting on the same privatisation. So on the one hand, you insist on privatizing, and on the other hand you accuse the private sector of not investing, not opening jobs. I think it would be much more appropriate to expect some kind of nationalisation or confiscation of private property from this government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51329	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51330	Thank you very much, Mr. President. You can see fellow Milosevic are very interesting criteria by which two financial institutions are sold, one banking, one non-banking. In one criterion, you have the highest offer, and in the other you have more offer for shares and capitalisation. And when you sum up an offer for one and the other, without this capitalization, that's about 250 million euros somewhere, that's about a billion and 800, a billion and 900 kuna. And the government budget deficit this year will be 6 billion kunas higher than planned. And notorna is a false lie and whoever says that with the sale of the Croatian Postal Bank and Croatia insurance will pay back the old debts. You can't pay back your old debts while you have a government budget deficit. So with this sale, you reduce the need for borrowing and finance your own failures in economic, tax and fiscal policies. And the question arises who is in the interest of selling Croatian insurance under such conditions where the key moment practically offers for capitalisation. With that recapitalisation, the one who buys 43% of the property comes to 50% of the property. There is also insurance in the Serbian firm, Milenium or what is called, there is in Kosovo, there is in Macedonia, there is in Bosnia and Herzegovina, there is in Slovenia, there is in Albania, but unfortunately there... People... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] because of the political situation. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So don't talk now in gloves,... provide insurance in Croatia even to companies owned in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, no recapitalisation is due to regional expansion, but to some other matters. But I say, since then, there will be more... in this country. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51331	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President of the House, Nenad Stazic, next replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51332	Comrade Shuker, it is just amazing to me that the amount of your knowledge and ability has increased by going to the opposition. While you were in power, none of what you today advise the Ministry and this government to do is done by you. You say today in health care no structural reforms have been implemented. So why didn't you spend it? Well, you've had eight years of time. You say 38 million kunas went to some Turks. Well, my colleague Shuker didn't go to any Turks, it was the government's guarantee of salaries to the DIOKI workers. So you're saying you're telling the DIOKI workers they shouldn't have gotten paid? That's what you're trying to tell them, so here's what I'm gonna tell them. Your colleague Shuker wouldn't have paid your salary, he'd have lost his salary if Schuker had been a minister without Linic. You say you increased VAT to bread and milk from 0 to 5%. But fellow Shuker, that is because we have entered the European Union because the European Union does not know the zero VAT rate. But I must remind you from 1 July we are an equal member of the European Union and we must play by European rules. You'd play different, and well, you'd be playing fake your whole life. But it's not going anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51333	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51334	I am pleased that tax expert Stazic answered the word because he knows how to pay income tax from receipts in nature. But I am also so pleased with my colleague Stazic, and I am very grateful to you for telling the Croatian public that you gave money to the workers of DIOKI in a very perfiduous way beyond all Croatian laws. You could have done it in any way, transparently, from the state budget. See the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship has no budget implementation of 10%, 20%. You could've given it away, rebalanced the budget to do it. And you believe that none of your colleagues would speak against why you gave money for wages. But give a guarantee for something, because look a little bit, now that you've had a little talk, you haven't been careful in your attacks. See also the explanation under which the Government gave the guarantee there's no mention of what you said. You've put the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance in a rather awkward situation. I didn't bring them. That's what you said. I didn't say here at all, colleagues and colleagues that these coins were used for something that wasn't meant for guarantees. Go to the government's website and read it and you'll see. But I'm saying, in your badness and your attacks, unfortunately, you were careless. About why we didn't make some kind of structural reform, so that's why we lost the election. Please nice, so what's good? Well, that's why we lost the election. If we did everything right, we'd probably win the election. Please, nice. But also, you just told us here along with the other notor fact that the government did one illegal act that you would lose the election because you didn't do what you're saying we didn't do. So I'm surprised at one known demagogue that he made these two cardinal mistakes. You've made bigger mistakes than these guys of ours on Saturday in Maximir.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51335	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51336	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Shucker, when you were talking about the 11 billion kuna deficit, then it's as if you're thinking about life, or deficit, starting when our government came. I am aware that you and many of you want to forget one period of your reign because you have become aware of what you have actually done. It's bad to accuse the former governments, etc. And it's certainly full of citizens' hats. But I have to react to yours because you won't admit anything. I'm listening to a speaker on your part today, and then our minister who's done a lot is called a cashier, which is wrong. I think you as a former minister are aware of what the deficit is about, that you are aware of your health debts, that you are aware of the payment deadlines. I'll tell you now that HDZ has just passed a bill on payment deadlines of 60 days. Therefore, this is the responsible government that has begun to implement. When you look at the deficit and just 3.3 billion kuna, it's basically that deficit that can be called, but if it wasn't for the government, if it hadn't done so, not to pay back such debts, not to follow the law then surely the deficit would have been the same as it was. You also mentioned that reforms are not being implemented, reforms are being carried out, sir, only it is not a magic wand, but it is the results of the reform that will only be seen, it is one process that is being done. Therefore, this government certainly knows an excuse for such a deficit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51337	Thank you, too. A new replica and respected representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51338	No, I raised my hand, sir. ... I picked it up, I picked it up, right at the beginning. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51339	Okay. Okay. Okay. [[I'll do it next time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51340	My colleague Bonačić, I said nothing else than what I said, but you simply have to read the document and find me except for the section relating to health care, which affects the deficit to apply to the previous period. You just don't have those numbers. But what increased the amount for health care you remember well when the budget rebalance was then, unlike you of HDZ, we asked where those 3 billion and 300 in the budget. You didn't show them in budget rebalancing, and you were talking about health care recovery. So if you knew what to do and how to do then you would have shown it in the budget rebalancing, then your deficit would probably be 13-14 billion, and you couldn't boast about the 10 billion deficit. The other thing, out of this 3 billion 1.5 billion wastes on your mandate, 1.5 billion wastes on HDZ. But we're also talking about rehabilitated health care, living and seeing, this year it's going to produce a billion and 100 million deficits, it's simply going to produce it for you because no structural reforms have been undertaken in the health care sector. Neither did we in HDZ, obviously well done, but in order to combine things, you have to take a report on the implementation of the 2011 budget and a report on the implementation of the 2012 budget, so you will see that compared to 2011 the funds in 2012 are 300 million less. If nothing in health has practically changed, then how with 300 million less money you can do without loss, and with 300 million more money you do business with losses. It's some kind of genius math. But I repeat to you, colleagues Bonačić, at the end of this year, a billion and 100 million losses will be produced at the end of the year, and such a budget as Croatia's budget will lead to a 16.17 billion kuna deficit at the end of the year, we will have a 60% deficit increase that has never been recorded in the history of the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51341	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative of Luke Denon.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51342	Comrade Shucker, don't worry, we'll get the election, if that's what you're worried about, because I don't think this people have a bad memory, and I'm not sure they'll dare vote for one suspect in two years. As far as the deficit is concerned, I have a feeling that now that you're a parliamentary representative, you're a little bit of an opposition MP, which I understand, but I remember you as finance minister, as finance minister, I'm sure you can't use that knowledge you had here to say that it's a deficit that citizens can understand, that's what this deficit is now, this government has done, it's spent more money than it's earned and this is what this government has done. We're warning you in a couple of these replicas so far that it's still something that's not popular on our side to say, some of your sins from before but is. You passed a bill of payment that you didn't respect, so now it's been charged to some kind of billion in health care. So there was some kind of shipbuilding recovery that you didn't respect, so somebody had to pay it too, so some interest on some loans came in, and we didn't earn them so they could pay for something that someone else had to pay for, so we have to pay for it. And you say in the end, there's no reform. So this is one small reform that one serious government behaves seriously, as it does and pays its debts, to pay its debts. This government is doing it. It's not popular, it's not good because the deficit is what it is, but he'll be aware of those boundaries we've been telling you about, it still takes a little bit more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51343	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51344	My colleague Denon, I've known you for a really long time and I don't want to be uncomfortable with you, but when you look at fiscal projections, then I don't know what frameworks next year are going to come down to the deficit if your assessment is 17,5 2014, 16.5 2015., 15.5 2014. What are those frames? And as for the deficit, when you come to what was in 2008, it's that the deficit of the state budget was only 2.5 billion and before the crisis, if the crisis hadn't come, it would have been... 2009 And as for shipbuilding, there's nothing to talk about if you don't read the document. And you will see that the shipbuilding has nothing to do with the deficit, except in that part of the interest on the loans that have been taken over. But look, just a minute, that's maybe a hundred million. Nine billion kuna for the rehabilitation of shipbuilding, and if it wasn't done, you wouldn't be able to sign these contracts you signed because the European Commission would simply not allow it. Therefore, it was the only model to get rid of shipbuilding was only turned into a public debt, and you have it in documents, and when you look at the 2012 report on the implementation of the budget, which was done by colleagues Fichor and colleagues Lalovec and fellow Linic, who I did not say what you said was, then you would see them talking about the 9.5 billion. It's not in the way it's spoken in budget implementation at all. So when it comes to one complex matter, you have to read all the documents that follow it and then there won't be any political debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51345	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51346	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Shuker, when we talk about the budget, and especially when we talk about budget implementation, we are talking about the government's economic and fiscal policy. And we are today through the budget implementation report mainly concerned with the positions and items of individual ministries or government, but in the Croatian society, the event and other things we missed today, which is that in the meantime the electricity increased by 30%, that the gas increased by 35%, that the price of water was increased, that VAT was increased, that excise duties were increased and that, based on such measures on the annual level, Croatian citizens were additionally imposed on more than 7 billion kuna. So based on these increases in a year, Croatian citizens must stand out for the normal functioning of 7 billion kuna more than a year earlier. Nevertheless, the ministry announces new taxes, counterpart Linic announces the introduction of real estate taxes. If it's still the government, I don't know. Taxation is announced on, i.e. the elimination of, or the exemption of, first real estate tax. Then a suspension of the subsidies on housing savings is announced, then a rise is now announced between the rates of tax from 10% to 13%. So, the government one day, or the Ministry of Finance, better said, announces a tax one day, the second day due to the disagreement in the coalition as it is giving up, and all of this together results in the implementation of the budget as we are witnesses, and I am not saying that by the end of the year this deficit will grow by another billion euros.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51347	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51348	Yes, counterpart Bacic, the most dangerous thing in the country is often lamentated with a change of tax laws. It's better to have a bad tax code than to change it often. And if we're talking about attracting investors, then the stability and continuity tax is one of the key arguments. In 2000, you can't calculate some coefficient to calculate the protection interest in reducing profit tax retroactively to charge it, you lose all disputes. And then it comes in 2012, and you do the same thing, you pass a law that will retroactively tax the dividend. Who will come to invest in Croatia when based on two of these experiences I do not know what you will do. Two months ago, here in this assembly, we are convinced that a reduction from 25 to 10% in catering will be something great, that a 25% reduction from 25% first to 5 and then 10 percent later on for those who have over 25000 will say anything genius in journalism, that eventually the VAT reduction from 2 months to 2 months later when the booking should be made, when they have to charge for the next year's capacity, then someone says they will increase from 10 to 13%. What kind of message are we sending to the world? What message do we send to those who want to invest in Croatia? Gentlemen, we can make a deal with you. What kind of tax do you get next year? I don't know, and we'll also give you a guarantee. We will not give salary money to all Croatian citizens to see that it is for workers' salaries and that Croatian taxpayers will help those poor people in DIOKI get paid, but we will do it in a camouflaged way and then get away from someone like that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51349	Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51350	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear colleague. In your debate you made a good argument and in fact exposed this mantra and a lie that the Croatian government gave to the Croatian economy in this year more than 8 billion kuna. Actually, that's absolutely not true. If it were partly true, at least some effects would be seen, and what the situation in the Croatian economy is more and almost no longer needs to be repeated. This is seen, of course, in the implementation of the budget where all those positions and in certain ministries were executed with 2% or 3% of direct subsidies except 50 million kuna via the Fund for Economic Cooperation at the Center of the Bank. It is a contribution to the Croatian economy of this government. You mentioned the same thing, and it is very interesting this discussion and guarantee, so the Croatian Government issued 4 and a half billion kunas of state guarantees this year by 30.6. It says here who? Except for the one mentioned here by some Turkish firm. As may be considered for the purpose of providing guarantees, it is stated that they, that financial State guarantees are issued to support capital investments in development which improve the general conditions of economic activity, etc. On the expenditure side, we see a guarantee has been activated for... And now we have heard for the first time that some Turkish company has been privately involved in paying DIOKI's salaries through state guarantees. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Can anyone understand what happened here and why that is? What kind of transaction and what is the legal reason and the legal possibility at all was that something like this would happen and that something like that would happen and what are the consequences of it and of course what is the result of it and how it ended in the end that story with DIOKI we learned here these days.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51351	Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51352	You see, fellow Poppie, in a great desire to attack someone, you step aside, you lose. Well, that's what happened once, you lose the ball and you take the goal. That's what happened to them today in that debate. If we accidentally said it was used then we'd be attacked in one way or another. The law stipulates why guarantees are given. The same story of a private bank's recovery was a statement if we don't do it, the state budget will lose 500 million. No, it should be said that insurance savings are not paid out of the state budget but paid out of the DAB. And these are the assets that invest the business banks in the name of insurance of the roles of their savings. So two misinformations. So, we can invest 50 million in a private bank, but the problem is to think about finding a strategic partner for 25% in the only state bank or that after that state bank was rehabilitated with 400 or 500 million kuna in 2010, you sell it for 800 million kuna. So you gave that buyer that bank 400 million government money. And if they added some other stuff there, then they could divorce that series of questions. But it's not a budget for political debates. You've touched a crucial moment. How much has been spent in 2 ministries, we can actually add a third one, which is the Ministry of Regional Development that should think of raising infrastructure as a basic prerequisite for investment and 2 ministries that should have helped Croatian entrepreneurs who can't get their hands on money. One spent 10% on business cards, lunches, looking for investors in the Far East. And I tell you more honestly there when I head to the airport I can't walk away from those hair-eyed ones who have come to invest in Croatia on behalf of those big lunches that have been spent on cards. And since you mentioned it, it would be very interesting to see how many officials today spend on cards and on representations by various institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51353	Thank you very much. Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51354	Thank you very much. Well, here's my colleague Schuker, you were in your statement about the economy being in a difficult situation, and at the same time, we're here to witness that the minister said several times and accused the economy and the businessmen of getting 8 billion kunas, and they didn't do anything. On the other hand, I am sure that the reforms that were to be implemented have not been implemented and that this is one of the main reasons why we are here today in this situation. When we talk about the economy and the tax policy that is really repressive, it has left deep traces in the economy and I fear that the economy in Croatia will not recover much longer. So all that you've said and all that the Ministry of Finance and the Minister and the Deputy are information that protects this people. Because this particular deficit that today is 11 billion in 6 months today is already 14 and at the end of the year is going to be 17. I ask all of you together who are leading this policy towards the economy is it a policy that guarantees the future and survival of a man who deals with the economy or are you really leading a policy that will lead us in a negative direction? Because this is all you've done so far, regardless of your praises, it's not true. I support the execution of your budget in 6 months where you made 15% in the Ministry of Economy of 1 billion and 800 thousand kuna, in the Ministry of Trade of 700 million you made 10%. So are these incentives for all the economies, and is it really enough for the economy to return to the level at which it once was? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51355	You're a colleague or you're a replicator to Shuker, not the government. Ivan Shuker, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51356	Thank you very much. The second time you look at me when you're replicating, you've heard, don't look at Lalovec there. A colleague of Lucic's what the Deputy Finance Minister might say rather than simply the facts. Just like the facts of their fiscal projections. That's the truth you can't escape from. Today, he tried to say that certain ministers had not implemented structural reforms, i.e. that it has deviated from the government's programme. And since the budget is a fundamental lever for economic policy-making, it is the best confirmation that some quasi programme of government that never existed or existed is not being implemented. Another thing when we talk about this 8 billion for the economy, I'd like to see someone with a finger show me where that 8 billion is in the budget. They're just gone. I tried to elaborate only that 2% of the health contribution, which brought perhaps a billion kuna to the economy, but when it disintegrates to hundreds of thousands of users it's nothing. And if you want to help the economy in crisis, then it would be a logical thing that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship, given that there was already one season behind it, actually a year, practically all of these incentives were given at the beginning of the year and not... in half a year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] No, let's get Handa into the Ministry of Economy to get a billion kuna of income, we won't have a billion kuna of expenditure, and we've automatically reduced our deficit. It's these accounting exhibitions that when they look at themselves in the budget, and unfortunately those who give us the money, which give us credit, they see it all. They can read that in the budget. And this is all I've been saying today they unfortunately see it. And that's why it was a message from the minister that at this point in time with these fiscal projections and with these movements this year, you can't go below 7% in America. And that would be a tragedy because in the years when Croatia was the most severe crisis, when the stock market didn't practically work at 4.5 months, it didn't pay more interest than 6.5%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51357	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51358	Thank you very much. Well, I have to admit first of all that I'm sorry there is no minister here today, Minister of Finance, because he was honest and said the Emperor was naked. Well, you're in your address. in the address on behalf of the club on the implementation of the budget explained nicely why the emperor is naked. However, on our right hand fellows as courtmen, as court madmen all the time clapping and saying that the emperor is not naked but that in the meantime, in these few days, he is dressed. That's our problem, that we don't want to admit the truth and we don't want to find that our state economic policy is bad. She's depressed, she doesn't give any perspective to young people. And then next, we determine all the activities and, of course, we see the exact figures in the budget. They can't be changed, the deputy spoke of them in his own way, we'll do it our own way, but we don't see any solutions. We haven't even heard from the deputy as far away as possible. How do we solve what we haven't been able to see in six months? Well, you mentioned the Ministry of Regional Development. We have loans that have been raised in much larger amounts than their division in the Ministry of Regional Development. Let's look at the realization, all the loans or they're all on nothing, so zero realizations like EIB 3, and there were 50 million kunas, or we have 100% realizations like EIB 1. So, those who've fired everything in six months, over the next six months, we're not doing anything, and we haven't shown these obviously because nothing's happening, because we don't know why local self-government doesn't have the right to get those funds. It comes to the ministry, then the leaders point out that there are funds, no matter what we pay interest on loans and we have to pay them back, we don't give them the opportunity to have 500 projects in 500 municipalities today, we invent stories.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51359	Ivan Shuker, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51360	Look, counterpart Boris, if we know right now that the main investors or those who are investing and are working are units of local and regional (regional) self-government. So, there's something digging in every unit and there's something going on. And when those poorest units don't get the funds they've been provided long ago because these loans with the EIB were negotiated four and five years ago and agreed on, then the logical thing is that they simply can't agree on the infrastructure to get there tomorrow is someone to open a job. Let's not fool ourselves that someone will invest on ice without infrastructure, and the infrastructure of the local self-government unit cannot do it alone. The second thing is these loans from the EIB and some pre-accession loans have just been aimed at preparing units of local self-government for the use of European funds. And if this is how we use credit funds already agreed only with the goal of having a smaller deficit, then you understand why you have this situation with EU funds because for all these projects financed for the EU funds you need a practically complete amount to be provided before then you will get the funds later. So that shows how this government works. This has nothing to do with HDZ anymore because they have been in power for two years, they have been able to prepare, make and can cheer the leaders of local self-government units with specific projects. We're so projects that are finished being funded for a few years. Here you have a case in this elementary school in Novi Čič, Velika Gorica, I have been speaking for almost three years, the school has started to work, the decision was made in 2010.The construction site started in 2011, 2012, 2013.The construction site is open with two, three people just so much to work and ask God when children will first go to school there. So if that school had been invested in doing some kind of construction craftsman or some kind of construction firm, it might have reduced it by two, three employees and raised GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51361	Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51362	Thank you very much. You told your colleague Shuker that the fiscal lever is not used enough, I think there are two main fiscal and monetary leverages, that fiscal use is wrong, and monetary use is not used. She rests in peace. And the best shows results to say VAT revenue in May last year was higher than VAT revenues this year. The reduction of VAT in the tourism sector, and this is the biggest sector in the Croatian economy, is not the aim of helping the economy, but it was intended to replace itself with a real estate tax that they met but the announced real estate tax has intimidated investors and by increasing VAT from 23% to 25%, total economic activity has been stalled. Entrepreneurship is horrified and at the same time this VAT reduction to the tourism sector was actually a budgetary suicide pure. And the greatest damage in all of this has been brought by a pre-war deal that is presented as aid to the Croatian economy, it is the greatest damage that has been inflicted on the majority of small creditors and the judiciary even, and the greatest benefit is being given to entrepreneurs who knowingly destroyed their businesses, brought capital abroad and today competed for the purchase of certain Croatian state-owned companies. This Act on Pre-departure settlement is a clean reprint of the Hamurabi Code which, according to its discriminatory provisions, reminds it and is proof that in Croatian business life, an economic apartheid that has long been in government and under such conditions is actually disabled economic activity and therefore all indicators are as they are because facts cannot be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51363	Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51364	That you have well noticed this relationship between fiscal and monetary policy. The monetary authority reminds me there at the beginning of the war in Croatia then they were the EU observers in... They've been acting all the time. I wouldn't mind getting involved. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] And that's how they behave. But what startled me was a statement by a former governor telling the current governor he's passive and doing exactly what he's doing. ... The means they have. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] Real estate tax, real estate tax announcements totally deadened the real estate market, killed a construction operation in the Republic of Croatia. We can talk whatever we want. A prenuptial settlement... However, what needs to be said clearly here is not indivisibility in Croatia reduced by 10 billion and no lip has been paid to anyone because the pre-profit settlements have not been completed but only by the basis of the law administrative means have been removed by those who have been blocked and it is shown to be reduced indifference. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]] But it's that one law again that you can say is... And this could be paved to somewhere long. [[A speaker away from the microphone, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51365	As far as I know, you voted for him. Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51366	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Shuker, on a few occasions, you said that this topic is certainly not for populism and that sort of thing, so I would ask you not to deal with it, too, because among other things, you mentioned that if I'm not mistaken for one 400 and a few million kunas less investment in HZ because the restructuring of HZ has been done, and these are now healthy companies that can repay their credit obligations, therefore these state guarantees that have been issued will probably never be activated, especially in the case of HZ Carg going to Romania. But I'd like to complete you this was sarcasm, I hope you understand, I'd like to update you, you said that state guarantees were issued for about a billion kuna, if I remember correctly. There is also a story to be added about the purchase of 44 passenger trains for HZ passenger transport, whose total investment is from billions and 600 million kunas is 1.6 billion kuna. And I have to admit, when the tender for the manufacturer or the supplier of those motor trains is completed. I was surprised to see the Croatian producer, or consortium, headed by Končar. However, when I saw that there was no State guarantee that any bank would report to a tender that would finance the project, then I realized why Končar could even win the competition. This was all about your supplement and you mentioned a billion kuna and I'm talking about another 1.6 billion kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51367	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51368	Comrade Novak, we can agree here, only what you're talking about was once funded from the budget. So you saw, why did I mention it? Take a look at the debate on the state budget and you will see the debates of the MP at the time and today the minister in relation to me who I was minister. Every time he told me we're too small for railroads. I did it on purpose today. Why? Because in 2004, I inherited the exact same thing, a billion and a half kuna guaranteed to HZ who were later charged from the state budget as protested guarantees. Oh, yeah, I'd be delighted if these billions of HH and his societies were to return it to be protested in a state budget way. But when you look at, when you look at what the biggest guarantee was last year and this year protested from the state budget of over 200 million kuna, then you will see that it refers exactly to HZ. That's why I said when I spoke on behalf of the club that when I wanted to talk about facts, I didn't want to politicize. So, all of what I said on behalf of the club can be found on certain items either in the budget, in the implementation of the 2013 budget or in the implementation of the 2012 budget. Because we at the HDZ Club are not in the interest of politicizing here. We are in the interest of being aware of the mistakes some and some things we were unable to do ourselves we simply want to warn this government to go the wrong way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51369	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51370	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. Well, fellow Shuker, I must say that this concern of yours for the state of finances is really touching, by the fact that you were a long-standing minister in previous governments. And that's all the art of your previous government, therefore, was that you were actually maintaining an inner vision of some kind of financial stability because you didn't show a complete deficit. So, you've been towing shipbuilding and railways and health care, etc., etc. So we're just going to, we actually had one picture, one idyll on paper, and it was real. And we're only actually going to get feedback from Eurostat and that's going to be in about a month, so we're actually going to see what the deficits of the previous government were. So you've maintained an apparent financial stability situation and at the heart of a huge external trade deficit and a huge external debt that is currently somewhere at the level of 190 billion kuna with the prospect of reaching 200 billion. And on that 200 billion every year we have 10, 11, 12, 13 billion interest, 13 billion interest, so that's more than the deficit, that's 10% of the annual budget. And if those interest rates don't pay, they go back into debt, so we don't have 200 billion public debt anymore, we have 213 billion public debt. And it's scary, I don't know if our citizens know that since the '90s we haven't even paid a crown of principals yet, let alone, we only manage to serve interest. And as for structural reforms, that's why you didn't implement them. So neither in the railroad nor in health care, health care is now being rehabilitated so that we can just implement the Financial Business Act. So, you didn't do it, this government of structural reforms is implementing and the results of all of this will be seen at the end of the mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51371	Ivan Shuker's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51372	... I'm turning it on. Obviously, this is too many replicas. [[Specially enabled.]] [[Intruder: Turn on the microphone.]] Second of all, colleagues of Jelash are not interest rates of 13 billion, then apparently your colleagues from the Ministry of Finance are writing the wrong documents. I read what he writes and that's what I say. So, same as the deficit. See when the decision was made to resuscitate the shipyard and when that 9 billion, by decision of the government, turned into a public debt. And it's not true that those nine billion were unaccounted for. Look back 7, 8 years, all these guarantees are listed to you in the State Budget Guarantee Report. So you have all the above. And it's not true that you didn't know. In February 2012, this government decided to turn the guarantees towards shipbuilding into public debt. If this government hadn't done it, it would have done anything in power. I know that you will all try to show EUROSTAT that these 9 billion that are not budget deficits, you do not have them in deficits are guarantees and there will probably be some kind of protest guarantee tomorrow, show that it was in some years before. These other deficits you're talking about have nothing to do with the 2011 deficits down. I repeat, in 2008, the deficit was 2.5 billion kuna and God forbid you get to this. But you with false illusions that you've cut expenses and you can't cut expenses without structural reforms, you have to be aware that your deficit in the first year next exploded to 17 billion kuna. Why? Well, because you had the wrong estimates growing. You've had totally wrong assessments, the effects of individual laws that you're going to bring here. Why do we keep talking about some laws about how much resources are needed and what are the effects of these laws? Here's because it's not written here we have today's deficit effect of 17 billion at the annual level.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51373	And Frano Matušić, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51374	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You have rightly stated that it is quite clear that by the end of the year we can expect a drop in budget revenue and expenditure growth. That it is quite clear to all who read even this document of the government that was addressed to us for the debate from, about the first six months because it is clear that it is not being realized as they planned. No matter what the assistant minister says, or Deputy Minister, he's already saying it's going to be the way they planned and this is all expected. However, they obviously do not distinguish pluses and minuses as I have already cited it in my presentation and other than that they do not distinguish plus and minus worrying and that they do not distinguish some much more banal things. So the fellow Stazic does not distinguish tambourine from artistic music. So fellow Stazic doesn't understand that Bach, Mozart, Sorkočević, Josipovic...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51375	The replica of my colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51376	That it's artistic music, and it's not tampering with the type of songwriter "Playing out." This difference obviously needs to be learned somewhere and it would be good to... additional education because every educated citizen of the Republic of Croatia distinguishes the artistic music of Bach, Mozart, etc., what I play, which can be heard on BBC 3, the best classical program in the world, from the tamburing of the type of singers "The Game is shared". That really has to make a difference. I think it deserves special care and should find a way to further educate fellow SDP deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51377	I understand you've been hit, but you've replicated your colleague Shuker. ... Here's an answer to the replica. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51378	Thank you very much. You see, colleague Matušić, if it hadn't been for the false note of my colleague Stazic, this High House and the Croatian public would not have known why 5m euros were given. We were convinced that it was given to a potential investor to run some things, when he saw the devil's money ended, now he says they wanted to pay the wages. It's when false notes are played, you can play it eventually, so those who don't get it take it and then someone who gets the notes and then shoots all your wires, so your colleagues have cracked all the wires twice, but what can we do? However, what is definitely the fact that the deficit of the state budget will be 17 billion and that the deficit of the state budget will increase compared to the planned 60, 70% and that is not only the problem, this means that the growth of interest rates by at least 1 percentage point in relation to what Croatia would have had to remain at the same level. It is a fact and should be told to the Croatian public and there is no reduction in public debt as long as you have a deficit. So it is a lie that the sale of Croatia's insurance and Croatian postal banks will reduce public debt. No, but only for those billions and 800, this government will need less to finance its failures, which this year costs 17 billion kuna. But I'm saying, sometimes it's good that some people play false notes, you get information you didn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51379	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51380	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your honor, deputy associate, colleague and colleague. The HNS Club will support the report on the implementation of the budget in the first 6 months of 2013. So it is already said here and it is known that the budget, the implementation of the budget, is essentially the result of fiscal economic policy. Therefore, in the first 6 months and in the second quarter of 2013, the slight growth of economic activity, significantly more favourable than the original expectations and the stagnant movements at the beginning of the third quarter, suggest that the overall decline in economic activity in 2013, as envisaged, would be lower. In the second quarter of 2013, the growth in economic activity compared to the previous quarter according to... data was 0.2%. As a result, favourable movements of all aggregate demand components have been achieved, with the strongest growth in exports and personal consumption. On the positive side of the second quarter of this year, good results in tourism and further growth in consumer optimism can also be cited, which is both initiating and spending personal and economic growth. So this is to remind you of any report by the Croatian National Bank. So when we talk about 6 months of budget implementation, when we talk about reducing 2 percentage points to health contributions, by 50% of what we've reduced water and forest contributions, all the measures in the Investment Act, investing in entrepreneurs, tax exemptions, VAT cuts and catering services obviously have an effect. Not the one that would be needed, which is the growth of gross products that can cover the deficit, whether it is 10, 11 or 13 billion, but it is necessary to essentially repair the deficit in the Republic of Croatia. What is crucial is that there are these fiscal and economic measures that point to positive trends, positive trends that are clearly reflected through numbers. I want to point out on behalf of the HNS Club what the Deputy Minister of Finance said about 1908 companies that invested in capital, nearly 6 billion kuna, which is extremely important that it is a clean, direct measure of this government, fiscal policies to strengthen entrepreneurship, in order to strengthen its position on the market when investments go, when they come to banks and take credit because we are all aware, is the extremely weak capitalisation of companies without these measures that indirectly affect this, and this is the possibility of moving forward, to take credit for investments, not to survive. Although, of course, in the implementation of the budget, we do not have a report on the financing of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development, but it should continue to point out that it, with an extremely high percentage compared to the previous years, is going towards entrepreneurship and all of this in order to strengthen the economy and employment because the debate on the budget without strengthening the economy, without the growth of gross products, without employment in itself, would not make any sense because it is extremely connected and this is the key reason why this government is doing, and all the measures that we and the laws are taking are related to growth and economic promotion. What should be said about the European funds projects here in the budget? It clearly states that in the first 6 months of this issue nearly 50% has been increased compared to last year's investment in funds for the part that we should invest as our part of the withdrawal component, i.e. for project realization. What is important is the same statement and it is related to the implementation of the budget that in 6 months this implementation of certain preparatory projects, therefore gasification and upgrade and expansion of pipelines and upgrades, i.e. the expansion of power lines and development of LNG terminals, has entered into, not that package we have as Croatia for cohesion structural funds, but has entered an additional package of priorities of the European Commission, 250 projects for the EU, the interest of the EU. So these are the additional funds that this government has provided through projects to be part of the projects in 2014, 2020 and that are not related to this component that we're talking about giving half and half of which we can withdraw. And these are all the results of this government's fiscal economic policy. When it comes to the expenditures of the state budget, it should be pointed out that the expenditure on employees is lower, i.e. the savings were made from 365 million kuna compared to last year. And also material expenditures are 8.5% lower than last year, so regardless of your discussions on Ipods, it is quite clear about vehicles that this demagogue or populist defense is not needed to invest in certain funds necessary for the functioning of both governments and ministries. If you have a car 10 or 12 years old, if your maintenance is 7 or 8000 kuna per month then surely buying a new vehicle is less cost than maintaining and pretending to have, not buying new vehicles. You're basically throwing money away by keeping old and unusable vehicles. When we talk about budget deficits and general government deficits and natural 13 billion, that is, as the opposition says 17, I think the EUROSTAT report will, according to a new methodology that will soon be published, show both the real face and past deficits and budgets. The real state of this and what awaits us in the future. It's a key matter for any budget implementation, for any budget. Of course, we have a 2014 budget ahead of us. The key thing is the growth of the economy. And all the measures and all the instruments this government is working are focused on growing the economy and all the indicators indicate that we are on a good path, that the milestone this year and that next year the Croatian gross product is going to plus. In addition, in terms of GDP growth, the economy will grow, and that is why this government is successful with all the difficulties it has inherited, which is due to the recession, which is due to the environment, because of the situation in the economy. Let's not forget, 70,000 workers didn't get paid for blocking accounts in private companies. They were led as employees, and they weren't employed. And these are all workers who have worked in companies or craftsmen with blockages for over a year. And then we wonder or wonder why there was an increase in the number of unemployed at the Croatian Employment Service. So because we introduced a real relationship to the real economy, to real obligations, and on the other hand as much as we criticized on the one hand, and on the other hand you supported the Pre-price settlement Act, the only way in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is actively active with all risks, especially the Ministry of Finance activated to save what can be saved. Because bankruptcy has shown that it cannot be a basis on which to be realistically able to save quickly what is needed in the Croatian economy and it is especially about the private sector. And this is one of the measures and key instruments that this government does not only fill the budget, but ensures entrepreneurs to continue to work, employees to continue to receive wages and that new created value can be created. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51381	Thank you very much. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51382	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear colleague, you've made a very good report and read to us from the introduction material of this law everything you've been meaning to tell us. We lost 10 minutes, and what you needed as a colleague as chairman of the Committee on Finance every other month has a thematic session where you would analyse the state of the budget, about finances, invite measuring experts from the university, from the university, from the Chamber of Commerce, from the Economic Institute where you could analyse the current situation and then you wouldn't have to listen to your exposure on behalf of the club that I don't believe you yourself believe in. That's number one. And number two, if you can't already do the thematic sessions where you're going to get into SDP's ministries, then take those ministries and those budgeting problems controlled by the HNS ministers nicely. So when you say that the preparation of projects for the EU is 50% better than last year, and this year in the first 6 months at the Ministry of Culture 7.8% and 50% are better than last year. Because last year they were below 4% in the first 6 months, which is really congratulating and really causing the general enthusiasm between the citizens and all of us. So I suggest and give you the initiative that instead of convincing us what is written, which you assure us of something that you do not believe in invoking a thematic session, don't trust us to invite experts from the side to analyse the matter. Surely you and your colleague, Radjenovic, who heads the Committee on Economy, will be sure to join you in this thematic session with good suggestions on how to get out of the current economic situation. We'll save ourselves time here, both nerves and ourselves and Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51383	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51384	Thank you fellow of course for your remarks. I see it's been fun at your club. So if I say that in the second quarter is the growth of economic activity, that growth in consumer optimism is then I don't read reports or government or economic special analysts that we have very much, and I can't often agree on what measures we should do. I read from the CNB's reports and analysis and this clearly indicates that certain trends are economically positive. Economic analysts are here to analyse, and the government is to run the business, run economic and fiscal policies and therefore get a mandate from citizens. That it's a four-year term, but what we inherited from you obviously isn't possible to change overnight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51385	Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51386	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, if it was really hard for anyone here today to speak to an esteemed colleague Gjurkovic, then that's for sure for you. And that was twice as hard for you. First, as president of the Committee on Finance, who no doubt knows how to read the figures and budgets and budget implementation, and secondly as a member of a liberal party that should advocate this private sector, strengthening the private sector that this government is not doing. However, defending it is truly impossible, so I must tell you that after two years of office, I really don't impress anyone at all. However, what impresses any normal impression that you are talking about deficits and state budget management when you compare 2013 or 2011. So, in 2011, the pre-election year, 14.5 billion kuna deficits in relatively difficult circumstances without any rebalancing of the state budget after 6 or 12 months before the legal deadline was abolished, without any rebalancing. Two years later, the deficit will be one 20, 30% higher than it was in 2011, the economy has collapsed the new 3%, the unemployed, and everything here today, not to repeat. And what in any case still impresses, which is that here someone has any heart to talk about the investment climate, about the entrepreneurial climate in the country that one rate of VAT will change three times in one year. I don't know, maybe instead of Thursdays instead of the Stock Exchange yelling VAT rates per product type, every week new.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51387	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51388	My dear colleague, I agree with you that changing tax rates is not good and that is not to be debated of course. As regards the strengthening of the private sector and that this government does not do so I will repeat it so now that it seemed to you the Act on Pre-demand settlement or financial business is one of the elements that helps on the one hand absolute entrepreneurship because so far this entrepreneurship is allowed not to pay its dues and that in that spiral of non-payment essentially creates one indifference in which being an entrepreneur is extremely difficult because that rule sues me so when you charge yourself more it will not be worth it and that is one of the extremely good situations in the Financial Business Act where it can no longer be spoken like that. The law on the promotion of investment and investment environment stimulating and assisting and co-financing of employment, i.e. the exemption from profit tax, is something that is certainly good and I suppose you also welcome as well as the Strategic Investments Act, where because of red tape on local self-government, we must provide space for entrepreneurs to simply quickly base the spatial plans of local self-government arrangements to provide investments that have been carried out for 7.8 years. So when we talk about the past then we must always touch this deficit and let's say the interest that will surely be around 12 billion kuna in 2014. These interest rates did not, of course, arise in this year, two, they were created somewhere before, sometimes before because of some task, and then it should be mentioned that it is known why, when and how.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51389	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51390	Thank you very much. My colleague Gjurkovic, I know that your government inherited not empty closets or how it says some skeleton from the closet but an empty house in two years, and that this house couldn't be filled, but also this report that we didn't get, which I don't have, we have a copy of the club, so where I have to borrow this copy from my colleague Bubala in two years' time, and see what it says in it is, because it's very interesting, so the way your government is doing it mainly here we can also talk about tax policy about volunteerism, wandering around in tax policy, so there will be no real estate tax, so there will be no tax on the first real estate, so it will be free of tax on the first, so then there's a savings company has incentives, there's no incentive, there's no incentives for state policy, etc. Therefore, these wanderings and decisions that have been made have led to the fact that general poverty and dissatisfaction in Croatia today. It's not clear to me that you speak as if you could say the treasure to us, neither care nor reason as this government does not, in fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51391	Reply to the replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51392	Well, I don't expect a colleague to praise this government because you've defined yourself to be in the opposition and the opposition, of course, has reason to criticise and always and when best to be criticised. What I'm kind of sorry is that you don't offer certain other projects or ways if you already think this government isn't doing well, in which way fiscal or economic measures but realistic not to those demagogues, let's not reduce, give it up, put it down, etc. Everything is what you do I suppose you know but you don't want to say. There are models, models A,B,C,D depending on the situation depending on certain circumstances in which it ensures the normal functioning of the budget, which is quite clear that it works out that it is not at all questionable on any expenditure that the budget does not work, that the state is fine-tuning its obligations under the Financial Business Act. Therefore, the debate on whether or not this government knows whether it will introduce or not a real estate tax is in agreement and political parties agree. HNS made it clear that the real estate tax will not be until economic growth is at least three months away from seeing reactions, not seeing a positive trend and it will not be introduced by then. Whether real estate tax or property tax is good, there are still certain parafiscal burdens in the world to be abolished everywhere, but there is always a key point in policy timing not only for public reaction but for the sake of life, reality and approach of politics in a way that is most adequate and most needed at a given time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51393	Gyro Replic drinker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51394	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So how do you keep saying that some indicators suggest that we are on the right track? So what are the indicators if you mean the Republic of Croatia? Perhaps you mean indicators in some EU countries, Germany, I don't know, China maybe? You cannot show such indicators in Croatia. And try to ask any businessmen, entrepreneurs, medium, small ones, who thinks in what circumstances today's conditions are living in relation to, so here's what you often mention in that legacy and in times of heritage that you so easily and so fiercely devastate? Ask them when they were better working and when they had better operating conditions, now or just two, three years ago in times of the most difficult economic crisis? You mention 70,000 people who worked and didn't get paid, so name the source from which you draw that information. In 2011, there was an official document of the Economic Social Council, and I hope you know who is sitting inside, so trade unions, employers and government who published the data after their own research that it is 15 to 20 thousand people who work and occasionally do not get paid. And don't keep telling those lies. It may have been 2012 when you came to power, and certainly not in 2011 is a lie. There is an official document of the Economic Social Council and do not deceive the public. Next, what did you do with pre-fashion deals? Well, of course you forgive your debts to party friends, so we read that every day more and more about 70 million kunas I don't know now I won't repeat the respected businessmen who are forgiven every day for their debts. But do you know how many jobs have been lost in companies that have suffered because they can't collect their claims because of these same deals? It'll come out and you'll see what the result of your policy is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51395	... Take care of the weather. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're just enjoying your time. Replication response. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51396	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I see a colleague of yours saying you lit yourself well, which means I guess I guess I guessed. No, of course there's no reason to lie. I think there are documents from September and October of last year when we passed the Pre-demand settlement Act that you and you supported who were divided both by MPs and the finance minister made it clear that these are FINA's reports on blocked companies over 365 days that craftsmen, which legal persons. These are therefore available documents from 2012 so that there is no reason for you to burn yourself down in Dalmatia to tell me if these are official documents. In competitiveness, if I'm not mistaken, we're on the world list from 84th place, and we've jumped nothing special, but it shows that absolutely entrepreneurs interviewing you and me, but entrepreneurs suggest that this government has shown with all its measures, however, and has proven more sensitivity to the problems of entrepreneurs and all these reductions in certain taxes and parafiscal burdens we've already discussed. I mean, the satisfaction of the entrepreneurs, I suppose, is absolutely in the tourism sector. And as far as I'm concerned, I'm saying again pre-fashion settlements, who's satisfied, who's not satisfied. Look, it's clear that going into bankruptcy of all companies in the way the bankruptcy was carried out and how it's being implemented, because it's no longer in the power of the executive authority would lead to these entrepreneurs too. You're saying they can't charge anything then they wouldn't be able to charge. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51397	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, colleague Krešimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51398	Thank you, well-respected vice presidents, respected representatives of the resolution ministry, colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a half-yearly report on the implementation of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2013 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2013. Namely, the HDSSB Club, looking at this implementation of the budget for the first six months, can tell the Croatian government, this is a clear signal, this is the alarm bell due to an enormous deficit. At first, I would like to say that the HDSSB did not prepare, did not create, did not implement, did not vote for this budget and no amendments were accepted or those projects we proposed when we saw the 2013 budget. Looking at the implementation of the budget for the first semester and looking at the figures that are inexorable but also listening to the Secretary-General, Minister Lilnić and his announcements but without discussing the sale of national silver above all Croatian banks, HPB, roads and looking at the figures that want to be realised with these sales and looking at the deficit that we project will be by the end of the year then we think that all these sales will not be enough to cover that deficit. Because what it seems to be, and that's exactly what spending funds, consumption and the expenditure side of the budget is, we can say that one system policy is not being run. Why? Income in the first six months is 52 billion 298 million kuna, expenditure 63 billion 731 million short of 11 billion and 432 million kuna. The planned deficit was 10 billion for this year and 246 million 915 thousand clearly looking at the first six months we broke through everything that could have been breached but there is no systematic policy. So often listening here in the Parliament we see we should invest in the Center of the Bank, we should not invest in the Croatian Bank or in the Post office Bank. Croatia must decide which way. This time in which one goes on one-off borrowing, creating a deficit is short-term breath. Looking at fiscal and fiscal responsibility then we can say that it should be monitored both in the medium and in the long term. But we can see that it's not even being observed here in the short term. You don't see what's going to happen by the end of the year, you don't see what's going to happen in the next few months and what's going to be the deficit. What we are particularly concerned about is the credit rating of the Republic of Croatia, the credit rating of our citizens, our businesses, our public systems. And then we are not surprised that this kind of management system brings us to the fact that Croatian credit ratings are declared garbage. Looking down to 11 billion 432 million and looking at the position that writes the difference between surplus and deficit. I'm afraid you'll be able to throw this surplus out of the table in the next few years. Because the projections and the gross social product and the macroeconomic environment that we have clearly indicate that we certainly won't have the surplus. Looking at the financing account, looking at the incomes from the financing of the assets and borrowings of 21 billion and 584 million kuna last year. In 2012, the first six months of 15.3 billion are then visible how much more we draw from borrowing. And the emphasis is on borrowing. Receipts from borrowing are 9 billion and 102 million. And we know that saying who lives on credit dies on the wars. The entire Republic of Croatia is dying not only demographically but in all other ways. Looking at 2012 when the first six months returned a good portion of the funding of 8 billion 974 million this year is probably refinanced again. But you know when you go into refinance and interest then banks don't look favorably at it and there's a credit rating there. Looking at certain items in the budget, looking at tax revenues that are slightly increased by around 118 million, looking primarily at the profit tax that has fallen partly due to reinvested profits but I would say that in a good way precisely because of those contracts that we had with CEFTA regarding our traditional markets, looking at the unadjustment of European spaces, looking at the drop in exports, watching everything that happens precisely in our most significant manufacturing companies, we can expect a further drop in profit tax in the coming time. The VAT has increased by 7.54% or a billion and 416 million but there is a wandering, tax policy wandering that one day goes with one VAT, another day with another VAT, and then I'm afraid there's not been an assessment. It would be wise if the minister predicted that by reducing VAT, he would capture what was on the black market, some who were probably not in the system and these fiscal tills, etc. If that was the way it was planned, and I estimate it wasn't, then it was wise. But in this way change in a few months the VAT rate is certainly not encouraging either for our hotel or for investors who want to invest in our space. But just now someone was talking about a depressed condition. So when we look at the consumption of, say, alcohol and alcoholic beverages, it turns out that we drink 13.72% more than in the first 6 months of last year, it looks like we drink more coffee 19.54% more than last year, we gamble in Croatia by 10% more than last year, but what seems to be less smoking by 6%. Well, I'm afraid I'd disagree. I think it is, however, this border and imports of tobacco products and bringing in a consumer basket from space and Bosnia, but also Serbia, because our people are also at the border of opportunity when we talk about a consumer basket, and then they certainly use and try as cheaply as possible to get to the product, and the same product is found across the border significantly cheaper. Looking at 6422, the lease position and the rental of property, but also looking at what AUDIO was doing and what it is doing today, we can say that income is down by 17%. Which would happen to a private if it had a mass of business spaces, buildings, buildings, which he doesn't even call a competition for. So we have the opportunity to see for example in the city of Osijek, in the city centre of Osijek more places for which DUDI has not opened any competitions. It's been months, years, years, they get warnings, they get suggestions but they don't listen, they don't see, and then after such care, it's no wonder we're shrinking exactly that position on the income side of property management, state property by 17%. The state is a bad master and it is shown exactly in this item. Therefore, precisely decentralisation, regionalisation, but also allowing units of local administration to manage part of the property that is on their premises would be much more efficient and much better. But what's growing is growing position 3233, promotion, information by 23.68%. It is likely that everything that is bad should be tried through information and promotion in some way smooth and presented in a different way. Looking at position 096, it's the Ministry of Health, looking at the plan that's for this year and looking at what's been spent, 64% has been spent, but we can safely say that the health institutions haven't been rehabilitated, so when we start from KBC, when we start from talking to individual suppliers of these systems, then we can say that those 3 billion you talked about weren't enough, that the dubiosiss are much bigger and they're growing daily. Also looking at individual ministries, such as the Ministry of Economy, entrepreneurship and crafts, such as the Ministry of Economy's implementation of 15.77%, the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts 10%. So how much, colleagues and colleagues, would have been a deficit if these ministries had done something, if these ministries had injected funds and developed this space, strengthened competitiveness, encouraged the economy and prepared themselves for European Union projects. Also, the ministry that is important to us, it is the Ministry of Regional Development, only with 34% had an execution. Looking at the farm that we have warned will not be enough funds, the execution is 61.87%, and that there will not be enough resources to feel our farmers in our rural areas, according to Slavonia and Baranja. I want to say that the guidelines are visible, but there are no measures, there is no way out of this situation, the possibility of reducing the deficit, of coming out of the crisis, of seeing some reform measures that would lead to investment and strengthening the economy. No more cheating on the European Union about finances. Fiscal consolidation is required and reforms are required. Therefore, the answer of the European Commission... very fiercely after seeing what the deficit will be, and we estimate that it will be over 17 billion kuna in this year, then we will see the European Commission's reaction, and then you will see an increase in interest on those loans that Croatia is using. But what concerns us, when we talk about employment, employment is almost gone, so when we look at certain items, such as the employment of Croatian defenders, the use of only 13.54% is embarrassing. It turns out no one will hire Croatian defenders and no one will take these funds. Therefore, we need to engage even more here through the resolution ministries. Deep problems must be addressed, not cosmetic measures implemented by the restoring ministries. Tax policy must be very determined, determined for the medium and long term, and there must be no wandering there. Looking at our banks that are still stable, but also assessing analysts that the exposure of individual banks in the Republic of Croatia to public systems can endanger their business, but also credit ratings, we certainly worry. With these sales, it turns out that Croatia will sell everything over the next few months, and then we will finance the deficit in the next 2014. Fiscal responsibility is due to generations to come, but at this moment it falls out because of generations that go outside the Republic of Croatia and find their bread. We also look at our competitiveness and turn around. Why aren't greenfield investments coming to Croatia? Well, for a simple reason, because our environment is much more favourable, much more stable and provides measures that are more significant just to get someone to finance and realize their project. What is important for our regional party is that there is no uniform development of the Republic of Croatia and that is what we see and in the implementation of this budget that lies before us. Therefore, economic downturn is evident, production decline is evident, exports fall, all macroeconomic elements that do not encourage us are evident. Therefore, a rebalancing is necessary. How to close what has been spent, has been spent so far, and the deficit to date is 13.3 billion kuna. Therefore, this situation is unsustainable for us, this situation requires urgent rebalancing and changing policies that would mean more resources for the economy, creating another atmosphere to strengthen economic potential, but also investing countries that want to invest in the Republic of Croatia, which want to realise individual projects and which still see little interest in our space. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51399	Thank you very much. We're moving on to replicas. Domagoj Milosevic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51400	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, you well noted, dear colleague Bubalo, that it is a really strange policy that taxpayers' money invests in a private bank that falls apart within a few months while the last Croatian state bank is being sold. However, there is something much worse and much more difficult, and this is the funds and economic co-operation we are talking about in this case, first of all, first of all, with the intention of supporting the domestic industry, the Croatian industry, to save jobs in the industry, permanent jobs in the exporting industry. Gredel as a state firm via HZ or DEOKI are exactly the kind of companies where this money was to be invested, to save jobs and because of these jobs, but also because of this whole sector. So when we talk about Gredel and Dioki we talk about entire sectors, we're saying that you can follow vertically to the education system. So the parts of our education system have in some way produced human resources for, or educated, human resources for this particular production. And on the other hand, you mentioned monetization. Look, it's really amazing to come up with fiscal guidelines for the next few years and to plan 5 billion euros in a new debt in the next two years, 5 billion euros in a new debt to plan it. It's incomprehensible! So when someone's talking about monetization here, so that monetization is like when, like giving the addict more money. So what's the probability that an addict will spend money on treatment? How much? 1%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51401	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51402	Thank you very much. Here's fellow Milosevic, I've been trying to present in my presentation on behalf of the club just to present these policies that I think have been missed first of all when we talk about selling our national wealth, first of all our banks which bring a positive result and investing in private banks. Therefore, the government should invest in what is called a state bank and create an environment and encourage the economy through that bank, unlike private banks where this investment has proved to have failed and will still have to pay 500 million kuna. But also when we talk about fiscal responsibility, it is true that the projection of deficits in so many amounts is considered to be very devastating for national interests, but also for generations coming to the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the circle in which Croatia fell must be changed because we are simply entering the circle so that we will no longer be able to service interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51403	Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51404	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here's listening to Mr. Bubal, although I welcome this change in rhetoric compared to his predecessor, so one calm, good debate. Listening to him, I had the impression that he was coming from Finland, not even Finland, but perhaps from Guatemala, given the knowledge of relations in Croatia. Namely, you have concentrated and you have said well that Croatia is in big trouble, but as if these problems have arisen in the six months. In fact, Mr. Bubalo, we've had a deficit for 20 years. So, since the former Yugoslavia and that surplus debt, we haven't paid back a single kuna, dollars, dinars or whatever those debts were, we've increased that debt year after year by deficits, and we've come to the public debt of today, which is so close to 200 billion, which, with interest, brings these 11, 12 billion burdens to the budget itself. And now that you have so many deficits, then you have to find ways to reduce them. One way is in any case better available to your own assets, businesses, companies, those you have. You said yourself that in some areas we're not the best here. In areas where you can cash that property, precisely with the aim of not falling into debt slavery, it is precisely the companies that we discussed, which we have decided, so Croatian insurance, Croatian Post Bank, that is also the monetization of Autocesta. Yes, because we don't have another solution, unfortunately, otherwise we have because of all these 20 years until we've noticed what's going on around us we have to pay back. We have 200 billion kuna, 30 billion euros. For such a small wish, it's practically impossible. If we had achieved a growth of 4 and 5%, we would only have interest services, and we all know that well, you as an economist also know. Therefore, we must find a solution. And say we're against everything, but you're a very bad government is not the solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51405	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51406	Thank you very much. When we talk about the deficit of my colleagues, I know that the deficit is a long number of years, but what we need to realize is that you and I have never been as much of a deficit in the Republic of Croatia as this year. Therefore, by looking at the figures, the figures are inexorable. I wish we had a Finnish deficit. You mentioned Finland a little while ago, but the deficit we're going to have this year, and I'm afraid of what we've entered is that we're going to have it next year. That's what I must be worried about. I am aware that it is not only a problem in this government, the problem is in various policies over the past 20 years that have not taken care of all national values. But also wealth, about our businesses, our banks, the financial sector, and that's why we don't have much leverage to make our policies happen. Apart from the National Bank, we will soon have no financial leverage left to implement our policies in the Republic of Croatia. And so, I'm afraid we're entering the debt slavery phase, when we won't be able to service exactly what's called interest anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51407	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51408	Thank you. You said your country was a bad master. It's not the country's bad lord, it's the bad lords who took over the government and who are responsible for today's state of affairs in the country. And it's not good when it's also trying to deceive the public that the situation is good and that the situation is exactly what was planned and expected, it's not good at all. You yourself noticed that the deficit would probably be over 17 billion kuna, the largest in the history of the Republic of Croatia, which is unfortunately true in my court. And it is really strange that today we do not have in the meeting of Minister Linic who should tell Croatian Parliaments and the Croatian public when budget rebalances are going and what will happen to finances by the end of the year. Why aren't we discussing this today? They assure us today that we will have a nice growth, etc. In the future, it'll all be nice, wonderful selling property at the same time that they don't have to sell. No one's after us for sale of HPB or Croatia's insurance. Two healthy companies that can win the Republic of Croatia. Let's put into function what doesn't work. It's the government's task to put into operation what doesn't work. To open up space for entrepreneurs to really put into operation all resources, all potentials and thus achieve economic growth. They were planning growth in this year 1.8%, it's still on paper, and from the first six months we see that it's been knocked out, that SDP cockroaches ate an 11 billion kuna deficit. And 10.5 is scheduled by the end of the year. So it's pretty clear what this is all about. And another thing, a pre-war deal. The only one who had the nerve to say Mr. Kolakusic is the fraud of Croatian entrepreneurs and the fraud of Croatian citizens. It's a prenuptial settlement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51409	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51410	Thank you very much. Here is colleague Matusic, however, I remain with my country as a bad master, this has been shown in the budget and in the management of concerns about state property, business space and many other situations. We'll probably hear, you asked where Minister Linic is, we'll probably hear some good news, which is that Minister Linic is on his way. What's he doing? He owes Croatia. He says we got another loan. This is what can't possibly be a joyous news, but putting into function what doesn't work we haven't seen it by the restoring ministries and Croatian public systems. Only what works is sold, only what investors ask for is sold. And why don't you sell various portfolios of what doesn't work, what creates losses and what's in some pre-determined state? You were just talking about prenuptials. And a good part of the healthy fabric of the Croatian economy, first of all, I mean the building, we just feel that in these pre-profit deals they get into problems and that profit tax that we talked about not only for reinvested profits but also for a pre-fashion deal you'll see when it comes to drawing a line with 31.12.200 that the profit tax will be even smaller precisely because of this pre-fashion settlement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51411	Young Novak, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51412	Thank you very much. You mentioned that the state is a bad master. I can't agree with that finding at all. I continue to claim that the state is not a bad master but the individual who is the government of those who are currently acting in power and who are appointed. And I would like to remind you of the Prime Minister's opening speech, and beyond that, several MPs on this side have defended the thesis of appointments. There are no competitions for certain positions and it goes with appointments for reasons we take responsibility. And then it was declared that if someone messed up from those set by the minister that the minister would also take over part of his responsibility and that the minister would also leave. You have supported this with an example of the state as a bad master with an example of space in Osijek that has not been in office for years. You added that several initiatives went from different sides to putting it into function. However, no one has ever responded at any level. And that's the problem with this country that there just isn't a system of responsibility. And I have to correct you. You said, unfortunately, we're going to enter into debt slavery. No, we're already in debt slavery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51413	Replication response, Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51414	This would only agree with you that there is no system of responsibility, especially when we warn about something that units of local administrations feel in the field, whether these are municipalities, cities, counties, and when it is indicated that state property is not being put into operation that they do not react and do not respond by at least one letter, and do not give God by chance and by competition which would certainly encourage local administration units to write to them even more. It is evident by the figures that the state mismanages business spaces, but it is very important to distinguish between those in attractive locations and those not perspective. Therefore, there should also be a difference in resolution ministries and Croatian public systems, which is for sale, which is not. Like the companies we talked about earlier, which is that those healthy businesses are being sold, and the unhealthy ones are staying and instead of working the other way around. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51415	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51416	A foreign colleague, Bubalo, you were talking about a budget deficit, a huge deficit that is over 11 billion in the first six months. I'm not an economist like you as a master of economics, but it seems to me that as a surgeon, it would be the same if I were planning an operation and going into the operating room, counting on a patient to succumb or die during surgery. In fact, in Croatia, the state says here from the ranks of the SDP colleagues that the deficit is permanent in all years, each year brings a budget with the calculation of the deficit. It seems that we were born with a deficit as a Croatian state or we are a state with developmental difficulties and we constantly have some deficits and we increase but even though individuals have really special needs in this society. I wonder if it will ever light a day or a budget at the end of the year to plan a single budget surplus like some countries in Europe and the world? It's hard, it's hard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51417	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51418	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grubisic is 11 billion 432 million kunas for the first 6 months, and in 9 months he was 13.3 billion kuna. That's what we're worried about and everything in the club, but all the residents of the Republic of Croatia. And what I said earlier in my presentation, probably this government is going to lift the extra-major position, it's only going to leave a shortfall. This is what is read in politics as well as in the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months, and with 31.12.2002, it is certain that the European Commission will take certain measures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51419	Gold shower replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51420	Thank you. I will look back on the part where you spoke in the management of state property and where you said I agree with my colleague Novak and with my colleague Matusic, who claim that the state cannot be a bad owner. Bad is the government that manages the property. And certain problems where you have well noticed that the drop in income is significant in the budget with the management of that property are the result of the management of that property managed by the Government. And what you have indicated is that certain holes will be covered by the sale of the national economy, our silver goes to HPB for sale, Croatia goes insurance for sale at a time when the value and price of the company cannot be reached. Is that a good move from this government or a bad move? That's why I'm going back to that part of the beginning that it's not a matter of the state with property management but of those who have been given the right to manage the property. And you mentioned the question of road monetization, I'm going to say we're talking about monetization for 50 years, what it is but a sale and that property for 50 years is a question which generations will pass and what generations behind us will say if we give those roads 50 years in monetization. And clearly we won't live to see those 50 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51421	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51422	Thank you very much. Very short. This I think is just patching holes and not the entire deficit, you'll see and sell everything the government plans to sell, it'll just be patching holes and not the whole deficit. And in the next year or next year, we'll have nothing to sell but air and water.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51423	The water's at the price of a colleague. Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51424	Thank you very much. You spoke to your colleague Bubalo about health care recovery, when the budget was adopted, it was announced that with a billion and 100 million kuna the county hospitals would be rehabilitated. But when you look at budget execution then you will see at the position of the Ministry of Finance that out of these billions 100 million was spent only 70 million. And you know what happened? All the county hospitals that... congregations where there's no SDP option in power have been given to the sanaci administrator. Is this the familiar announcement of health care resuscitation the governor really wanted to resuscitate the county hospitals? You also said that it's not good to talk about VAT change all the time and you talked about the incentives in agriculture. The incentives in agriculture, if I am not mistaken, are reduced by nearly a billion and 200 million kuna compared to 2011, but you know how much at the annual level the Croatian budget loses by introducing a VAT 10% on economic services not on tourism but only on economic services, over 2.5 billion kuna. And who uses those services? They use rich tourists and use wealthy Croats. And who lost the money? He remained a poor Slavonic peasant. And you know, colleague Bubalo, what political option was the only one when in 2010 at the 11th month in this House, we proposed the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which was the only political option against that law? SDP. And you know why? Well, your answer is in the budget implementation data because if they followed the Fiscal Responsibility Act, then someone would be responsible for what happened in the first six months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51425	The answer to the replica Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51426	Thank you very much. I would like to agree with you and I believe that your claim is correct, but when we talk about changing VAT and what Minister Linic wanted to boast here in the Croatian Parliament the other day, and that significant HBOR funds are being written off to farmers. Our peasant can produce, our peasants produce the same amount of products only if they're not the same incentives. And there's a difference that our peasant got into trouble and couldn't repay the loans. It is not a help for someone who can no longer repay credit to do as Minister Linic said the other day here in the Croatian Parliament to go to write off loans to farmers. No, politics must change. It is also a policy in agriculture, and this is best seen by the position in the budget.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51427	On behalf of SDP representative Igor Radjenovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51428	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's before lunch in a little calmer tone. We got off to a pretty hard start, and it's just a report on numbers that we can't really change, but good was expected. The report has hundreds of pages, someone rebelled that we didn't even share them. So this is also part of the austerity measures that all clubs have received one print and everyone else of course on the Internet has the opportunity to look at it, can also print any parts that are most interested in them. But since we're all more or less informative, then maybe it's not necessary. There's gonna be, like, 10 of those big booths that we're discussing today, and more or less the debate is about what's been going on over the past 20 years, who's less and who's more guilty. And it's actually about one thing, all about one forty of that time. So in these six months. When I replicated my colleague Bubal, yes, since the early 1990s, since the beginning of the Croatian state, we haven't even returned the kuna of that loan, you said in Yugoslavia you're a little older, I was a 20-year-old then, there were 20 billion if I didn't cheat on the dollar, so it was a terrible thing, so we almost owe it to Greece and Croatia fell some 4 billion dollars back then. All right, all inflations, everything else. But today we're talking about ten times, ten times the number so we know what the problem is. It won't even sell property to help us with the deficit itself, it's booked below the line, it'll help us pay off those further loans. Because with today's 200 billion interest alone, I say amounts, roughly covering economic growth of 4 and 5% at today's level. So it's really not easy for us. There's a lot of reasons why those 20 years didn't reduce deficits, why they weren't smaller, war, reconstruction, all the other relationships about it, but there was certainly a lot of irresponsibility. It is not the same whether the deficit when you plan it, invest in consumption, invest in the purchase of election groups that are more prone to you or invest them in development and investment. We may have missed the historic opportunity, when we are already back in history when we introduced VAT and when the VAT that moment proved to be two, three times the revenue, when the budget over the night practically doubled, then maybe we didn't make that step that we could somehow even our consumption with what we were really producing. And while I'm already in history, let me remind you that in 2003, at the end of that government's mandate, the government's debt was 81 billion, that investments in those three years grew cumulatively by 45.7%. If indifference was 15 billion kuna at the time, today we're at 35 with us at 45 until recently. He says that if it was just a beating, I wouldn't agree with him. The tax debt was 23 billion, today it's 50 and something. What it is and how all these figures affected the competitiveness of businessmen within Croatia itself, which meant for mutual relations when one pays tax, the other does not pay it, when you actually have absolutely unfair competition and which would mean that as such we can only assume that we are entering the European Union. So all the measures that the government is pulling in this direction that things change are going in the right direction because other times we don't actually have. Allow a few sentences, however, about figures, so the revenues for the first 6 months are lower by 1.4% of which tax revenues are 0.4% higher than in the first half of the previous year and are 30.5 billion. Of these, income tax increases by about 3.6%, which is due to higher efficiency in the charge, which is due to lower income returns on that basis. The profit tax, the most significant and most high-end, I apologize, the profit tax most significant bribery, the bribery on that side, expected, of course, because this government has certainly abolished the tax on investment profits. Some of this weighting has certainly been about the poor results of the companies themselves, so since the advances for the next year are slightly lower, but the main and most important weight is the reduction of the tax on the invested profits, the return of that money to the shareholders therefore investing in their core capital, which develops the production of which makes the state give up these good billions of kuna, a billion kuna reduction of 34% compared to the previous year. The tax on property has a small share, growing from 20% to the previous year but the question is whether with such a relatively small tax 230 million we can even talk about something more significant... 120 billion, 120 million. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The topic will open at some time and the real estate tax will be the only and most important as is the most important source of funding for local self-government in all countries of Europe. If local self-government is to be financed exclusively on income. on the salaries of people living in a certain city. In Zagreb it is 70%, in other large cities 50%, there are municipalities where it is 90%, there are municipalities that cannot be financed. And not to go too far alone, income tax isn't a good tax and it's not really up to our mayors, the mayors, but the measures that we bring here and the overall functioning of the state. And then we can ask ourselves rhetorically, of course, and then what do we need local self-government if all their incomes are actually provided by the state initiative? Value added tax or VAT 20.2 billion, increase 7.5%. That's the most significant item, we said discharging the economy at the expense of tax reinforcements. Although many taxes you'll remember you'll be reduced to 10%. And oil and sugar and flour, now they're objecting to why they're 13, but if, in fact, the proposal is 13, we'll see how we're going to get to the budget for next year. Because that's where there's about 600 million on those goods that we wanted to relieve our citizens from 25 to 10 cuts, taxes on oil, sugar, baby food, water, etc. So that's one side of the VAT crash. Of course this general rate and growth are there. Special taxes, someone mentioned them before, tobacco is... Something more significant, luxurious taxes, collateral sacrifice we're entering into Europe, even though those weights aren't important to us but I say growing alcohol and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] but they are mainly due to the change in relations between the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The tax on coffee has increased and on this side we expect more revenue from all other years. What is significant is the contributions, so despite the contractions of economic activities, contributions are at the level of last year for pension and employment, and for health insurance are greater than the decline is a percentage of 15 to 13, in absolute terms it is 13.40 and the decline is 11, therefore better... the contribution still works better. As far as the expenditure side is concerned, the execution is a total of 63 billion, 63.7 which is 4.9 billion more, and 51.5% planned, and now we come to this basic topic that when it comes to the public of all our cacophonies, huge deficits, huge relationships. Yes, he was over 100 over the past year, but we clearly and loudly explained what it is, meaning the dynamics of payment of subsidies decided by the Government of the Ministry of Agriculture, Finance and the Government as a whole that they were dynamically paid faster in the first 6 months and the recovery of debts in the health care sector 3.3 billion. And I'm saying, I'm glad that every time more responsible debates come along because we have two billion more to resuscitate, together we'll have to find a solution however you end up raising your hands, another two billion in county hospitals, one billion in 800 if I'm not wrong, it's still like... a sword on our necks. And health reform is what this country certainly needs, which through the master's plan the government announced and I expect very quickly such... here and I hope there will be plenty of responsible discussions. It was saved where it could be saved, so on the employees of 365 million kuna of the reduction in the coefficients by 3%, from the impact of central wage accounting. ... are expected at the Ministry of Science and Education and the Ministry of the Interior, so we still haven't implemented the reforms we need quickly enough, so there are still figures that we will obviously have to cover through rebalancing. As far as material expenditures are concerned, here I really think we've strained as much now as possible, 8.5% reduction compared to the previous year, certain decisions not quite popular about remembering transportation, work on the ground, separate lives, abolishing i.e. They'd better say equalising the rights of all employees to get their actual material cost of transportation to work. This saved 17% from the previous year. Subsidies are somewhat larger we have said... agriculture, but also shipbuilding, but also HZ, but also in HBOR and they are at the amount of 62.7 and this is therefore the second basic factor of the increase in expenditure that has its dynamics and of course compensation to citizens and households, i.e. in this case, the settlement of clinical hospital centres through the transfer of subsidies to the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance. As for the cost of obtaining non-financial assets they have also increased, but you have an explanation about that. Is all that enough? The four main directions of the Croatian Government for the balance of life in this country were therefore the introduction of order in all areas, consolidation of state finances, restructuring and rationalisation of the state and public sectors, and the development, adoption and implementation of measures for economic recovery. We mentioned a public debt of 190 billion, only this year it increased by 21.5 billion, of which I say is shipbuilding 9200. We're going to have to find a solution to that deficit because obviously I say it through even good economic growth we can't cover. One of the exits is the rationalisation of asset management i.e. sales where possible, monetization where possible and about it simply when someone is against what I can understand for opposition political reasons, which from perhaps not knowing the total theme, but we really need to find a solution in which to finance this public debt that has arisen because there is simply no other way than the rate of growth that the former Yugoslavia had in the '50s or Japan, but it is unfortunately impossible to do. Correcting the state at all levels, fiscalizing. Someone here has objected to why fiscalization, why the caterers. The catering traffic was 64.4% higher in July than in the past year. The caterers and merchants reported 7 billion kunas more in 6 months than in the same period in 2012. Was it supposed to go to that extent, where that money ended? We've been listening, and in this assembly you won't be able to do it, we can't stop the economy, we can't find the financial solutions, we won't find the cash registers ourselves, the systems are going to fall, what's going to happen when this guy, when he shows up, protestes, etc. Today we have a perfectly orderly situation and even in the markets, we have registered workers, we have a far better situation in the budget, and most importantly, we have an even market game because if everyone pays the tax that we bring here, only then can we have an equal match. If everyone pays taxes, then we can both rationally and responsibly discuss which tax we will raise, which we will bring down, and thus we will all organise the functioning of the state together. If they're privileged to each other, then we can't ever achieve that path, we have some weights that actually give us vague information, and that's what we've been doing for the last ten years, and that's why we're here to die. What else did this government do? Through... I said 350 million, and we still haven't had these famous clinical hospital centers, yet we haven't entered the MUP and the MORH, or they'll be coming in these days. Therefore, there was obviously a lot of money draining through various additions to the contract, which were not kind of verified. There were also those who were annulled through health care in the Constitutional Court for which it is now a strike, but I'm saying obviously they won't be able to move on, we'll see how the story ends. We forget that this government has finished saying through the introduction of order in all areas. They also have their consequences on the financial market and the register of voters and the legalization of illegal construction, 800 thousand demands, etc., that now, I see that my time is at an end and I have slowed down a little bit, to fix this competitiveness that we need and to create a fair society for the economy and for the economy, but I also say a sense of justice around all of us, for all of our citizens. I got a little more? That's why I want to come to some conclusion so I can say it anyway. Here's a reminder, I started with history. In 2000, it was just as difficult, they were growing unemployed, there was a lot of bankruptcy, we were over 400,000 unemployed, we had a fall that year. The most popular minister today, Slavko Linic, was Slavko's bankruptcy. In two, three years we still managed to run things, we knew where we were going, we knew where we were going. This is a somewhat difficult time, obviously because of many, just to finish the sentence, the international circumstances we have but I am convinced that we are on the right track and that the goals of the Croatian government, the Government of Zoran Milanovic, will be achieved. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51429	Thank you. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51430	A colleague of Radjenovic, you said unlike the former government who bought selected groups of voters, this government has spent the deficit, practically money and deficits on incentives. Well, it would be very interesting if you'd said what polling groups we were buying -- Croatian defenders, disabled Homeland War, farmers? What constituency? Is it an incentive for the economy to reduce agricultural incentives by a billion kuna? Is the incentive of the economy reduced by the railways a billion kuna, then through some guarantees, short-term loans. So let's talk about what's in this document, let's talk about what's in this document and look at the structure of these expenditures. It is completely identical to the structure of the 2011 budget expenditure and because you did not take the structural reforms that you had to undertake, this kind of deficit happened to you. You just stopped, you didn't do anything to reduce the expenditure side's escalation, and that's the key problem. And you can talk about it any way you want, I'm sure the Minister of Finance will agree. After all, it has said itself several times that the problem is that it has failed to stop the growth of the expenditure side of the budget because some members of the government are simply not ready for reforms. On the other hand, the income side didn't exactly happen the way it is. Because look, no one in this assembly is against seducing order, that we understand each other. No one's against it. Only if such great results are of some measure why they are not seen on the revenue side of the budget, nothing else. But rest assured, we're finally going to see how certain laws were voted and ultimately what anyone was saying even about the Pre-departure Deal Act, so we're going to see who didn't support the measures that were meant to introduce order. But you can't just stare at facts. And when you say that someone was spending a deficit on the purchases of constituency groups, and you have almost exactly the same... So we spent that kind of money too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51431	Thank you very much. Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51432	I thank Madam Vice President, so here's what you finally voted for and supported. Yes, that party voted and supported many, including the Law on Pre-war settlement. And today we hear, obviously someone said a short mind today, looking for a more polite expression but today it's said here's not good. Oh, no? There were better bankruptcys that we don't know 6% with 15 years late, and this is now suitable for some entrepreneurs, etc. And even you said that, even though I'm saying I remember being constructive about it. It's a simple solution that we can only find. I also invited you in one of my replicas that when this health reform comes, when there comes a new establishment of hospitals like that English term, we'll see how your side behaves then. You asked me what election groups and what incentives should not have done. Shall we add up the farm? How much? Fifty billion. We want to compare incentives and production eight, nine years ago. The production is lower, and the incentives are increasing every year. Shall we talk about the Croatian railway? Shall we talk about shipbuilding? But okay, let's talk about the Croatian railway. We left the structural reform in 2003. How much? Take 13 companies away. They're made up of d.o.o. And all we have to do is get them to the end. No, we got HZ Holding back, let's shoot 4.5 billion, let's get paid, we don't want... And let's go. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today, the Croatian railways run a full 40km/h. The Marathons will be there soon. Ussain Bolt is faster. Soon these marathons running Zagreb marathon will run faster than our Croatian railways. Actually, it would have been so if we hadn't started reforming it this year. Croatian airlines are now dropping, I hope their wheels are falling. I'm going on a plane today, and I hope that's where we'll fix things. It's just that you haven't done anything in eight years or preserved your status quo. We try, we try, often with your support I always look forward to getting support from the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51433	Thank you very much. Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51434	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear counterpart Radjenovic, what the facts say is that the current SDP government took over the state after 2 quarters of economic growth, which means technical exit from recession. The figures show that unemployment was dropping, that investments were growing, and that's all I said was a reduction in tax burden. Now I guess for the past two years they've had something to do with what this government does, at least it should be. Of course, unfortunately negative, but that's a fact. Now, that's too hard. Everyone needs a trap when they listen to you talk about the 2000 to 2003 period for a few reasons. But the key is that it only confirms that this government is not aware of the circumstances in which it leads the country and where it leads the country, and this shows the figures and this shows today's debate. Now I'm interested in your personal opinion whether or not, you said that there are four directions that this government leads the country. I don't know, it's usually one direction and some subroutines. One is supposed to be a fiscal consolidation. Do you personally think, I'm interested, answer me 5 billion euros in a new debt in 2 years? Is this the way of consolidation, is that the way this country should go?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51435	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51436	We'll all be smarter probably in 21.10. If anything about these dates doesn't change, we'll all be smarter when the State Statistics Office in cooperation with EUROSTAT announces the deficits for all these previous years. Unfortunately, unfortunately, given the political debate we have, we will only be able to compare the right figures. I compared in 2000, in 2003 it was exactly that you know that first fall when you admit what and how and in everything in life, and then take off after that. In far more favourable macroeconomic circumstances that were then. But the problems I say were the same, indifference is clear to you as we speak. Wait a minute, there was an unfulfilled commitment at the end of 2011. 2.5 billion kuna. That's the information the Ministry of Finance says. So somewhere in the drawers was standing, and even supposed to be the church one 300, 400 million lags, etc. So let's wait for these EUROSTATs. The conclusions of the State Statistics Institute and EUROSTAT, and then let's talk. We are happy to discuss this behind new frameworks. I'd love to. Here's today's Committee on Economy is in session, you haven't come to strategic investment. I'm sorry, it was a club, at least I called him two, three times, every time you come here you're constructive. Here, I urge you to come to the Committee on the Economy of my colleague Mesic has called for no contribution, at least I am so cynical... Not outside, at 8:30 means outside the session itself. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Come more often to the Committee on Economy you can make your contribution, let's come to a solution together. We can fight as we fight, but this country's debt is 200 billion kuna. Growth of 4%, 5% holds it practically we are standing in Mr. Milosevic's place you understand very well as the man who led several companies. We need to find a solution together and we need to find him honest and responsible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51437	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51438	Thank you very much. I must remind my colleague, Radjenovic, that I do not say the economist again, but it seems to me that from your presentation, as well as the behaviour of the government, which has a little estranged from the problem of everyday citizens, it is a bit self-sufficient and self-sufficient, so I must say that 26 billion euros in public debt increased during the government of the Kukuriku coalition by 5 billion kuna says a lot. You were also talking about health care. So I don't understand how, and we talked about the responsibilities of those, so you said that it would be responsible for implementing this policy for the people who lead it. Well, now I don't understand how you don't mention any responsible person for the debt that this government and the Ministry of Finance have come up with to tell me how you say it yourself, and no one calls out to anyone who actually ran that health care and who ultimately produced this current doctor strike, a fully justified doctor strike. In fact, we are all witnessing a statement that with 13% of the health insurance contributions will be enough for the functioning of the health care system and for all health needs to be met. And what happened? Well, here's what happened. No one calls out or has the names of the responsible person who has happily declared that 13% will be less and that will remain 2% for the economy. Nor did the economy go forward because we have a fall in all segments and elements, and we see health care in what state it is. So what you're saying is it's like the patient's in that vigile coma, a coma, is he listening, but he's not really responding or he can't react.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51439	Thank you very much. Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51440	Here's what Mr. Grubisic said was a completely justified doctor strike with a request that the Constitutional Court declared illegal, right? ... That because of the 800 million kuna that the minister said on his way out, let's go, we're done, let's leave those 800 million kunas to some future government that we care about. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, if that was the only area where the problems stayed, then we'd be on horseback. ... For procedural reasons? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay. Okay, neither you nor I are lawyers, so let's be interpretations of the Constitutional Court, but you're a doctor, so maybe that, and I'm an economist, so maybe we shouldn't move on with the subject. Three hundred million kunas were made on a united supply within the health system. There's no reason why I don't believe it. Sanitation managers are set up to set things up. If we think we can change things today and tomorrow if we think we can resuscitate health care in two, three, six months and even so many years, if we think that the public debt of the Republic of Croatia is 200 billion we can solve within the mandate of this government, then we're wrong. We can say it here, you can do it to someone who listens to us, but we can't do it anyway. The important thing is that we have a direction to have a responsibility to manage the funds. I don't see that responsibility as a member of this government's position. And me, let's face it, I'm once dissatisfied with dynamics. We don't have enough information, we've had greater expectations, but that doesn't mean that the direction isn't good and that we can undo all the efforts of this government because it does. They've been here two years without having an affair. Well, let's say that, without even having an affair. Savings, I mentioned a dozen of them on the items we're trying to do. We'll get to economic growth, we'll get to it. I promise you, here, hold me by the word in the camera in front of you in 2014. We will have economic growth, unconstitutional economic growth. Like the government of the Racan border, only a year later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51441	Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51442	Thank you very much, Vice President. You said something in the replica that I thought as an economist, that I would hear, that we had 200 billion debts and that we needed a 4% to 5% growth. That's right. However, regardless of the four directions the government is going to make to achieve this growth of 4% to 5%, we need investments first of all, right? If we look at the implementation of the budget by several ministries that should be in charge, first and foremost for the preparation of EU projects, the execution is catastrophic. Is it possible that some ministries have a 7% execution on that item? And that the projects left to them in certain ministries by the IPA have a 3% execution in the first six months? So, the project's over. And we say that we need to help do as you say and I say thematic sessions to see how we can work this out together and we're going in the right direction, and at the same time we have this kind of activity in the preparation of these projects, and you're saying that we need a growth of 4 to 5% if I'm not mistaken that you said it would go into a positive trend and that the burden of that debt would start to decrease. Really, why don't you do a thematic session but let's discuss it specifically? You know, my colleague Radjenovic, we've made suggestions here many times, when we discuss different laws, I don't remember any of them being adopted. I personally don't remember any suggestion that he was adopted. And we were talking very much about concrete things in a series of social segments that were here for discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51443	Reply to the replica Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51444	Thank you. Comrade Mesic, here I refer to your last sentence, even though in your debate, you referred to my line, which is not exactly in the Rules of Procedure, but let's forget. No remarks were adopted, right. The strategic investment law, there were certain remarks from the HDZ bench were adopted. Are today your colleagues Shuker, Milosevic, Daliæ... The distinguished Vice-President of the Popicorn would have heard, if they had not already read the materials, that in the Law on Strategic Investments, certain suggestions of your club representatives or your personal office were accepted about it. So he denied you today and denied you there are any such proposals yet. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's move on, you said GDP increase- no investments in the Ministry of Culture that's your pain, etc. How can GDP grow? The growth of personal consumption, the growth of state spending and the growth of investment, that's right. That's great. And you know what she's like... In your recent years, we only mention the construction sector, only that state spending. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Let's crack these deficits as far as they go doesn't matter because we're buying certain works, to mention only roads, to mention only tunnels, etc. And then we have a nice super formal GDP growth. The fact that these companies remain inefficient, that they remain inefficient, that we allow them not to pay taxes and then two, three, five years we watch what the directors of these companies carry bags without knowing whether or not they took them away, and then we get into trouble, some wild minister Linic comes along, and he says now let's see what's behind all this, let's see if you're paying your dues, where we're with pre-determined deals and I'm wasting a lot of energy. Here, maybe the construction sector is the best picture of what and how it can be done. We're doing everything we can. We also make EU projects 80% of what we have done so far. Thank you for all your help in helping us make this country our common country out of the crisis constructively.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51445	Thank you. Now we're going to take a break by 3:00. The first is the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative of Jadranka Kosor and HGS. Thank you very much. It's 1 335 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51446	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the Club of Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, Mrs Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51447	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy, colleagues and colleagues, Of course, much has been said and at times, especially we who are here are trying to participate in the debate by listening carefully to others and trying as much as possible with this debate as possible to help and not to help. But always a man has in the end some impression that more or less everything is said and that he tries as much as possible to avoid, repeat his predecessors. But it's gonna be hard. So, I'm going to start by saying that we're discussing the State Budget for the past, for the first six months, but we're already discussing budgeting for the first nine, so it could be said in 10 months. And we're actually discussing budget implementation. Finally, it is clear that the story will be rounded for the whole of 2013. What's worrying is that all deficit projections for this year are heading towards that 17 billion kuna. However, here are some analysts and people who are closely following movements and about the budget, but above all for the Croatian economy, for the economy of the European Union, and for the reflections that come from the world tell us that this figure could unfortunately go up to 20 billion. Personally, I hope that doesn't happen. And what exactly are we talking about? So when the causes of this difficult situation are spoken today in the Republic of Croatia's budget, then many tend to return to the past. What was known in December 2011 and 1 January 2012 and 1 January 2013 was clearly what we carry in the future. Not only for the 2013 budget, but also in '14, '15. but certainly those who will come behind this especially after the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union. So it was also known for the load of the shipyard, we were known to enter the European Union and that, with all the possibilities of 500 million people, the market of 500 million people provided to us by the almighty use of money from European funds. The fact that we will be able to use 3 euros on the euro invested, withdraw 3 euros, etc. It was known that, of course, as a member, 28 members of the European Union are bound by certain obligations for Croatia. Therefore, it was known that part of the revenue will be reduced by the very act of entering the European Union on 1 July of this year and that part of the expenditure will be increased. This means taking into account all the circumstances that we face today, therefore, that neither the economic growth as planned nor the implementation of the budget is realised as planned. It is clear that the 2013 budget is not realistically planned. And that's the fact that we need to talk about today because I guess we have a very quick budget debate for 2014. I will remind of, of course, 2011 it was also a very difficult year, but it was a year without rebalancing. Here we are, we have another rebalancing at the door this year. 2011 was without rebalancing, it was an election year with frozen expenditures, and that was the government's decision. In such frozen expenditures, we have then invested, i.e. four billion of those new commitments, therefore also related to the interest that we need to discuss very realistically. Interests are obligations that will not be resolved by any political crackdowns or accusations, interest is obligations that will rest on the state budget and next year behind and in the years to come. So also to the governments that will come after this whatever it is and whatever the government's supposed to be. What is of course worrying is the announcement that in 2014 we will increase expenditures by 8 billion new. The deficit will rise, so growth is planned, the question of what will be the one that isn't planned when we talk about the deficit. Of course, I think maybe once we could, it's never been done before, and no one's stepped out in the Croatian Parliament that way. Maybe we could think that for example. We organise one thematic debate not only on the board but perhaps at the plenary session on our debt and on all the commitments that await us in the future. So if we're going to be in debt, how we're going to be in debt, whether we come in one day when we won't be able to borrow at all, and we'll still have to pay both salaries and pensions, and we'll have health obligations, but we'll have interest obligations, or debt, and interest obligations, but also all those pension obligations. And the fact is that this year we have to separate a large part of the pensions from the Croatian budget, that a small part is being collected, but that is the constant of Croatia, that is something that governments have faced before this. One principled question to which I believe Mr. Deputy Minister may answer in some final summation of everything we've talked about. We hear very often that there are no meetings of the ruling coalition, so there has been no follow-up to the practice that has been in recent years. It's very complicated to run a coalition government, several parties. Everyone has their own interests, their own suggestions, their own vision, but, of course, in every government, it's those that are most responsible, every success of every government is divided into all partners, and every failure or any defeat is always based on the strongest one who is leading and then by logic of things and the most responsible. So it seems, and the coalition partners say very often of this government, that there are no coalition meetings, not to plan ahead, but to agree on what to do. Why am I saying that? It is bad, it is very bad that very often here is the example of property tax, the removal of the privilege of first real estate, the incentives for housing, and I could thus be listed, especially from the Ministry of Finance, which, in this sense, is particularly responsible, announce certain measures, announce some taxes, and then, after a while, deny, or very clearly, other partners say that such a single project, such a new one. the tax will not be realised or a relief. It is embarrassing to see that, for example, I will not name, but many who follow everything that happens on the political scene and follow the media will know what and who I am talking about, so that a coalition partner, for example, in a third diary on HTV, is sharply critical of the actions of his government in which he participates, measures by the finance minister and tells him through the media that he has to read more and that he has to learn more. So it is not good, it is ultimately reflected on and what we call the investment potential of the Republic of Croatia. It was the same with VAT, this part of VAT that connects to tourism. Our opinion is that this was not a particularly wise decision, but we will see what will ultimately show the final results, so the assessment of the implementation of the national budget as a whole for 2013. Often today, reforms, reforms that have been left out, reforms that need to be implemented and reforms that need to be strengthened, reforms that do not exist at all, and that few who ever say that here because I also said that as Prime Minister when we proposed the budget, for example for 2011 and 2010 in this Parliament, I am saying that now. So I was kind of glad to hear the finance minister, on the other hand, and it's hard, when it's almost the same syntagma about the reforms that everyone would like but no one would want them in their backyard, Minister Linic repeated several times. And that's the Croatian reality of ladies and gentlemen. Let's remember the Labour Act. I think this is also an opportunity, and just when we talk about the implementation of the budget and what is waiting for us next year to mention here, and it was one of the possible reforms that was stopped by these strong signatures for the referendum, and today we still don't have, even though then we have signed it, and I think it should have been a commitment for this government, an agreement with the unions and employers on making a whole new Labour Act, and that's something that's necessary. Here we hear today the re-nouncing of a section of the union centres about any discussions on the Labour Law where the debate and dialogue are trying to lead to the setting of the ultimatum. This is impossible, and so the good, quality labour law that will follow the life of the Republic of Croatia will certainly not come. The fiscal responsibility law, and I would like to hear that, Mr. Deputy, there have been some announcements that the Fiscal Responsibility Act will change, i.e. that it will give up the recognition of the many rigorous measures imposed by the Fiscal Responsibility Act that we adopted in 2010. So it was one incentive in public, then it died. I would like to hear whether by the end of this year the law will change, or whether there will be such incentives, which will ultimately end with the amendment of that law, and not to say that, of course, we will soon be waiting for the fiscal scissors of the European Union whose member we are and of course the question of all the questions are whether and in what way we have prepared ourselves. I also remind you of a recently highlighted opinion of the Institute of Public Finance regarding both inter-steps and changes to the decision on oil, fat, sugar and children's food, etc. where the Institute also points out that this is a very bad phenomenon and a very bad message to potential investors in the Republic of Croatia. And now, in the end, some more, so in this situation when we have, when our expenditures are rising, when our deficit is growing, when I'm not sure the government has the right answer to the question of how to stop it, we have two examples that he was talking about at the beginning of today's debate just being represented by Cain. I'm sorry he's not here. So, I will highlight only two ministries whose execution is absolutely unclear. So this is the ministry of which we expect this stopper in terms of a difficult economic situation and a small or no shift in that sense when we continue to record the decline in GDP, the economy ministry has a budget of only 15.77%. So the index is 15.77 where strategic stocks are, for example, made with only 9.91%. This is what I point out on the way because it's something, strategic supplies are certainly a strategic issue. But it's even harder in the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts. So their execution is 10.02%. However, in this ministry, look at the costs of people outside of work relations, so the salaries were made mostly in 50 per cent but more than that. However, here the cost of the persons outside the working relationship records the index of 170 whole 7 point 68% and the other unremarked operating expenditure 99.86. It is therefore almost 100% or therefore subsidies to companies in the public sector of 1.90 a subsidisation to companies, etc. 4,91. So, two ministries that should first and foremost have ideas, but of course also execution in every sense, and then also in the budget. Here in this analysis, they are lagging behind in my opinion and in our opinion inexplicable. So, Mr. Deputy, please try to try at some point when it's possible to explain what's actually going on in those ministries. Maybe these are all projects that will be implemented in the second part of the year, so we don't see it now. But it would be good to say that here because these are two extremely important for the Croatian economy two important ministries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51448	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists – Labour parties Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51449	Honorable deputy with associate, esteemed colleagues. Well, I'm not an economist, and I don't mean to get into any professional debates about it, I admit it, and on the other hand, I'm not even a baker, so I can tell which bread tastes better. So I can estimate that what this government has us mixed up with now has 77 crusts, and they say 7 crust bread is hard. It's good to hear that, too. Let's remember the debates that were here at the time of this 2013 budget, then the budget represented and defended it by half were done by Prime Minister Milanovic and Minister Linic. So the prime minister found that there was no cost for the interest state would be an eye of surpluses. Those are his words, but the interest has so the deficit is just at the level of an excessive pay mass. On this occasion, he apostrophe of collective agreements as a minor main reason why Croatia will not already go to better tomorrow and that is why there is no bright perspective for us. I must admit that Minister Linic was wherever and where more cautious he was and where more realistic he was. He said it must be saved, but that the savings relate to part of the salaries for the public and state sectors. In the part where we can give up some of the supplements with an explanation that we simply show that we are responsible to our investors and to our creditors. Well, I'm not sure if collective agreements are the main stumbling block and that this is exactly why Croatia can't move forward. I think there are many, many other problems, that collective agreements are definitely the last to be a stumbling block. But interestingly, neither today nor today, no one mentions a number of agencies. Let's just say today it hasn't been mentioned, at least I missed it if it was mentioned. Minister Bauk said the other day from this pay phone there were 185 of them. I personally must admit that I've never seen anywhere calculated how much these agencies cost us, and the calculation that's useful to them makes no sense to work because it's no use, there's no calculation. Now I'm asking myself and you, does anyone know what would happen if we didn't have any of those agencies we're supposed to have, not apparently we have to have them because we've taken on such a commitment by way of a degree in the EU. Is it more beneficial not to have such an agency and pay the fine than to bear the cost of the agency’s work and then to suffer even more damage that the agency can do? And for example, I'm going to name one agency whose work hurts me particularly, and that's the Railway Market Regulation Agency, which, systematically, for five years, I don't think has been doing anything systematically for five years, and what it does is better not to do. So let's say look at their report will soon be on the agenda, for the last year they've had 7 points, 7 remarks, 5 have been declared incompetent, and 2 have not been able to resolve. So much for the work of such agencies and their cost and how much this affects the state budget. One of the major problems mentioned today is the rehabilitation of health care. And we agree if I'm not mistaken, 3.4 billion kuna is said to have been spent on it, but I would remind you of the debate when a decision was made to cut the contribution from 15 to 13% when we Labourists warned about the consequences of that decision. It is then said, as an explanation, that it is a form of redistribution of the economy and that it knowingly shifts the burden to the citizens but will follow the effect of creating new jobs. Now, how many new jobs are opened thanks to a decision like this, which is a rank of my own time, I don't know, but I don't think there's a need for any deeper analysis because there's probably no such jobs. Since we are all localities, so I will also mention that second consequence in Sisak over the past month, in the past month, FINEL and HERBOS have shut down production and that is some 80 jobs, a gold needle that is forgiven for a significant part of the debt in the amount if I am not mistaken for some 9 million kunas, which is about two-thirds, and it may not be crucial that one of the high-ranking SDP staff is owned, it is important to keep their jobs. This is without any irony, it's really the most important thing. But more and more rumors are being heard that the Golden Needle too will move its production across the border to BiH. Now the question is even double damage. The situation around Željezara Sisak is no longer mentioned, and even when someone today mentions those former famous 500 jobs that will open this up is malte'ne blasphemous because you use it in a public debate of other people's misfortunes. And when we warned that these 500 jobs were not real at all, that there was no point in talking about something that had no foothold in anything, then we were declared demagogues, populists and whatnot. Okay, now we can go back to health care, we can find out that health care has been successfully recovered. Doctors, who had not long had nurses with them gathered together in their places to delight together in the successful recovery of health care. I don't know if they got paid in the meantime, they didn't get paid yesterday, so that's probably the result of that recovery. I would remind you that we were saying that this model of functioning, i.e. financing health care, is simply unsustainable and that what happened today, several speakers from this pay phone said it would be just a repeat of history. Every couple of years or over time, we're going to be beating a couple of billion kunas into a health rescue again, and if we don't change the model, nothing's going to change in that, we're just going to have to throw in a well without a bottom. It is mentioned in this implementation of the state budget and 760 million kuna, I think that figure is previously paid to support peasants. So these same peasants almost until mid-August stayed on the roads and protested by pointing to unpaid incentives, at a low ransom price, to the absolute non-transparentity of the payment of incentives from which it is impossible to determine anyone or how paid these incentives. Finally, a decision was made to break those peasants who protested, the Croatian village was broken along the way and thus opened the space for free imports of agricultural products from other countries. We will allow our peasants to rest from this hard work on earth, so we encourage the purchase from other countries to empty their coolers for this year's crops because they are bothered by that breed two, three years ago. As a state, we don't have the need, there's no point in building any refrigerators because it's not the business of the state, it's the business of the entrepreneurs. The state is here to prepare legal assumptions for an easier realization. The problem is that such entrepreneurs either don't or we've made them a very good legal basis so they run as far away from us as possible. In the end, and from this pay phone on several occasions, the state is said to be a bad employer. But the state doesn't run any businesses. What are some individuals who are appointed by this government, or government? And I would remind myself once again of what I said today in the replica of my day it is said from this pay phone that we take responsibility, and if these men appointed by ministers do not show up as real and fulfil their obligations, if they screw up they will bear responsibility and ministers. Well, I didn't quite get the impression if we were to excuse Mrs. Morelli Holly's example that anyone was responsible for any of his mistakes or that there were no mistakes in the work so far. The privatisation of everything and everything, the sale of state property, and I am free to say national wealth regardless of how long it's gone, and the prime minister came forward with a statement that it's not a national asset that creates debts. There are companies there services here I look at colleagues so I remember one of these services, but it's not only that and education falls into it and much more is that the state has a commitment to its citizens to provide them with this service, and if we privatise everything then there will be no more such services, and then obviously the state loses its meaning and let's say social states. Obviously, the Croatian government has not only made this decision that Croatia does not need to be a social state or at least not to its citizens. I ask myself questions, and I ask myself a question every little bit of it comes out and with a theory if you don't do what we say won't be for retirement. So in time, if you remember in the EU accession referendum, the first Deputy Prime Minister said she was not in that position yet, but she was a minister, she said that if we don't go to the referendum and we don't vote to join the EU there will be no money for pensions. It is not long before Minister Hajdas Doncic said that if we don't monetize the highways there will be no money for pensions. The worst of all that comes out also with the theory that this money will not be invested, will not be to patch up budget gaps but will be invested in the creation of new jobs. So does anyone else have anyone who believes these and stories, if it doesn't happen what the minister will resign, will they take responsibility? I believe I'm asking him now that his answer would probably be in the style of God that my conscience burns me if that doesn't happen. Since I've been a little distracted and I've been a little bit lost sometimes in the debate, I have to admit that I'm going to cut a little short, and I'm going to mention what's mentioned here if I can't without it HH we finally have a situation that's been restructured, everything's been resolved, everything's on healthy feet, we're going to be able to get back what we've already had to repay the loans that we've raised even though the state was just a guarantee, but I remind you again and 44 trains that we've ordered re-emerged as a guarantee even we can't find a bank that would follow that project, so that's another billion 600 kuna of the burden on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51450	Thank you, too. We've reported five replicas. The first one came from Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51451	Here's your colleague mentioning one company and saying that the state has forgiven this company's debt. What you call forgiveness of debts is the conduct of the Pre-department Act, open and transparent, and nothing is hidden, to whom you say is forgiven, who has succeeded in this bankruptcy settlement who is not. How would you call the treatment of an ex-government that has been for years, if not decades, if we were to sum up that period by 2000 to our chosen ones, but they weren't just celebrities. These were such unknown people and perhaps some known names were hidden behind these unknown people, whose debts were settled in a very perverse way, in a way that was waiting to become obsolete, and then they were sued for accusing the judiciary of not processing or completing the procedure. So it's already out of date for tax returns, as you'd call it. That's one thing. Second thing, you say here's all they'll sell out. Well, we have to figure out debts are something that isn't just an economic concept, debts are something that we have to pay off. No one's selling anything in the house. If you were in your own house and lived in your own house, and if you owed millions, would you have to say that you live in your own house? Debts just aren't just an economic concept, debts aren't just a legal concept that individuals or communities or states enter, it's a deep moral issue. And we realize that's a question of honesty. You say that the state cannot be social in this way, the state must first of all be responsible, and if it is responsible then it will be easily both social and just.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51452	Thank you. We have a colleague Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51453	Thank you very much. You ask me what it's called the debts that have forgiven the former government. When I have something to say, I say it, and I find my name, so you say it if you think anything. But what would we call this if what I'm asking happened happened, what if 9 million kunas were forgiven and production moved. I said at first I'd say hello to it, but it has to make a commitment to the firm that he can't leave after such forgiveness that he can't leave the state so he can't move the production, that's what I'm talking about. But well, apparently your replica was more oral on your colleagues... Well, that's what I was talking about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] As to the repayment of debts, whether the State should pay the debt or not should pay the debt and that it is a matter of honesty. I'd like to remind you both of the government's plan and that famous 21st plan. So does one letter write about it there? So much for honesty. And should I repay my debts? Should you just tell me when you sell Croatia's insurance, Croatian postal bank, Croatia airlanes, HZ CARGO, Croatia's lottery, I don't know what's already on that list, which is behind it? What's out of it? Isn't this a sale to create new jobs? Specify something that's open, which is, where it's moving forward. Nothing at all, this is throwing in a well. What's behind that? We're just gonna figure it out, it's Greece, we're watching it, and now we're experiencing it. Nothing more than that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51454	Thank you, too. Next replica Ana Comparić Devčić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51455	I thank the Vice President, so there have been several speeches today about the health system and the health care recovery. Dear colleague, health care has gone to 3.3 billion kuna this year. And that's what I'm going to tell you why there's gone 3.3 billion kuna. Yes, of course part went to HZZO, or to pay prescription drugs, but the good part went to KB, or KBC. And there's still enough left to get rid of all the county hospitals. And what we're doing right now is the fact that we need to see if we need all the hospitals we have today for the truth. The health system of the Republic of Croatia went downhill at the moment when the pyramid turned completely upside down. If you were and perhaps you weren't present on the Health Committee when we discussed the state of health, then I made it very clear, and everyone sitting there supported me. The fact is, we ignored primary health care at the moment we lifted the white, blue books. That's what people of some ancient times remember well. So our entire primary health care has moved to hospitals, which is the most expensive variant in the health system. We have to go back to the Andrija Printer method. And when we have such a health care system and we have it in a former state, then our health system will come back to life. We now pay the most expensive checks, our patients measure the pressure of specialists, cardiologists or nephrologists, and we turn doctors of general medicine into writers of prescriptions and manuals, that is, the fact. That's my fellow facts. We destroyed the health system back in the '90s and some year when the minister was Mr. Hebrang who had abolished the white and blue books, and we must not forget that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51456	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Novak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51457	Thank you very much. I don't know if you want to confirm what I said or if you didn't listen well. I said at the beginning that when a decision was made to cut contributions from 15% to 13% that only then already alerted the state of health. And that 2% certainly... Look, if you have a cut, now you don't have enough and you're going to cut something down, so normally you're missing more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We warned about that. We don't say anything to these, that you shouldn't or don't know what. But the fact is, that's when we warned that that's exactly what was going to happen. And what was the answer? No, we don't know what we're doing, we're in control. But honestly, the mass of you on that side, a very large number of people agree with it when it's out of this pay phone, out of this House that it's not all so wonderful and wonderful as it has to be said here on your part or even more concretely how it has to be raised on Fridays. Not even say it, but raise your hand on Fridays. And that's what's the problem with saying something, is okay. It was a mistake, that 2% was really an increased problem, it didn't create it, but it increased it. On the other hand, whether the job is opened with the basis of these two percentage points, the whole sea is closed with it and without it. This certainly did not affect this, therefore, those two percentage points certainly did not affect the opening of new jobs. But they did a lot of damage to health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51458	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51459	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, there's really a lot of things you've been talking about. In Croatia, two years ago, as it is said professionally or from economic analysts, a tax bite has been made. So in the field of tax, such an increase is made in all segments of the, here's also thinking about abolishing this tax exemption at first real estate, and then more real estate tax, etc. But what I wanted to say when you were talking about Croatian highways and so on. The monetization is that no one thinks about it, and neither does the government, for example. when there is already such strong resistance in the opposition as well as in the citizens to call a referendum on it and even with the question of whether the public is even increasing part of the toll, so toll and not selling Croatian highways. If a stranger or anyone else is going to make money on those highways, so why don't the state make money on these highways and use that money for the purpose to which it means to use them by selling or monetizing them, it's not by selling but by monetizing those highways. So let us all together as citizens help the Croatian roads pay off their debt, interest and other interest, and if we have to, let us, conduct a referendum on whether citizens are to avoid monetizing Croatian highways and to increase perhaps for which tolls. Well, that's what the citizens pay off, so that's what they've been doing. And that's what we've been doing so far, building highways out of our own, out of the pockets of all citizens. As for agriculture, here you heard on the news this morning that milk production in Croatia has fallen drastically, that only the largest dairy farms remain in operation and that out of nearly a billion gallons of milk we produced three or four years ago we have now burned below 500 million gallons of milk per year, and less.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51460	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51461	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Grubisic, I'd like to first look back at this on the highway monetization. What, if I'm not mistaken, is not said today, and it was mentioned a few days ago, if it's disputed in the contract to ask a question that we can discuss these contracts. News has now surfaced in the media that a contract is being concluded in a way that if traffic on the highway fails to make enough profit to the concessionary that the state will do him harm. That's the kind of example we already have, so it's not weird. We have such an example in Croatia, therefore it is not new. But if we're doing it, then we're really asking who's doing it and whose interest it is because you can't justify it with anything anymore, it's not even building a budget because it's not even safe what you get. That's true, and I think in the public interest it should certainly be made public as soon as possible if it isn't true to prevent damage, manipulate those semi-information, misinformation, I don't know what to call them, but in any case, that information itself can already cause great damage. As far as agriculture and villages are concerned, I have noted and from the bottom of the discussion on behalf of the club, in this damage that has been done, we can be fooled but these are the damages that are irreversible, it's not something that you can rebuild for a year or two, it's unfortunately who doesn't understand, who's looking at it too superficially will never realize that what you're doing now is probably going to take a few generations to get back to the original state at all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51462	Thank you, too. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51463	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, you spoke of the Croatian railways and the accounting exhibition the government made, as the subsidies in the economy decreased. True, HZ was reduced to about 800, 900 million kuna but at the same time a billion, last year a billion and some other guarantees, this year I think about 270 and this guarantee that the banks did not accept for the purchase of the train. However, when you look at the State budget implementation report for the first six months of this year, then you will see that the guarantees given by the Government in some previous years by HZ-Infrastructure, HZ-Wolf trains and HZ-Carg total 75 million kuna are charged from the budget. It would not be a problem, the government has simply opted for such tactics that the same case does not at the same time declare disaster, as the former government has set up because these are guarantees given to shipbuilding or the guarantee given to Croatia for insurance. Now it's turned into a public debt and it's a disaster, and these billions and 100 when it turns into a public debt tomorrow because HH has no chance of returning these loans from its business then it's going to be something different. So that's the problem with these public finances, which with accounting exhibitions somewhere 2-3 billion kunas has simply been transferred to other expenditures just to make the budget look wonderful and wonderful, because look how seriously this government is considering and how seriously it takes this situation. What the prime minister said when he addressed this House a month ago, he said they had a low deficit, that the only ones who managed to reduce the deficit. It is, in one year they have reduced it this way with 3.5 billion kuna, but this year because of such a reduction, the deficit goes up by 7 billion kuna and will be 17 by the end of the year, and what will be in the next 3 years, may only dear God help us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51464	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51465	Thank you very much. Well, I'll start with something you didn't mention, but today on two or three occasions it's apostrophe. You didn't show up on the Committee on Economy, so now I'm going to do the truth just so we all know, the Committee on Economy called this morning at 8:30 and there was no quorum. The ruling quorum has not been secured, the debate has not been and is called at 13 o'clock let's raise our hands. That's what you don't know, and what we know because our representative came but even their representatives weren't there. Therefore, the demagogue who spreads in this House is for the record. Now let me get the story back to HH. Since the president of the HZ Supervisory Board was today's finance minister in 2000, I remember very well those meetings he was speaking at, quote: there's a pair of mud, and with them I'm going to have plenty of money and not you. The consequences of that are the purchase of six bomber trains of which I probably don't know if one or two are currently driving. The result of that is ironing a line of face, which is a total failure. As a consequence, counterpart Rajedinovic said we have made you such a basis that you can go on. Unfortunately, you've gone on the same way with such failures that it's a horror. But these were disastrous. Now what's the worst of it? These new ones are even worse, they're even worse because they're now separating a complete maintenance system and going to privatisation. So now you'll have a situation whenever anything happens that you have nothing left in Croatia because everything needs to be called an Austrian or what he's transferred to business maybe even in BiH and we'll see who's gonna keep the tiniest things going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51466	Thank you. And the last replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51467	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You said that this was no longer a social state, that everything was sold out. I mean, it's not like the social state and the monetization of highways, Croatia's insurance, the HPB has connections. The social state, which allocates 16 billion to the possibility that pensioners will receive pensions because the pension fund does not have enough funding, is certainly a social state, a state that indexes pensions of the same social state independently of recession. And the state that allocates 22 billion dollars for health care is also certainly the social state covering the debt that our citizens have to do for a truly quality service, and the service other than medical care should naturally have the resources to deal with it. And as for monetization and privatisation, the debate and the positions and the opposition are essentially about strengthening the private sector and the economy, so I don't know if you're in favour of an ethical state?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51468	Thank you. Hey, buddy Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51469	I'm sorry, buddy, but this last one I really didn't hear about, so I can't even answer what I'm saying. But do you think the state is social if it pays someone what they deserve, what they earn? Do you think it's a social state and if it's going to pay overtime to doctors? Is that proof that she's social or that she's a legal state? What proof is that? You can't argue like that. The state pays pensions to pensioners, and that's why it's social. Well, she's just doing, in that part, she's just doing what she has to do. On the other hand, the fact is that I have to agree here that unfortunately in this package of those who do not, it is not even the right expression of privileged pensions, given that they are not all privileged. But that's where everything got used to, so the first association for me is when someone mentions it. Rubala. So much for that. As far as monetizing the highways, I've got you, you're in favour of privatizing everything. I ask you why the government has made a decision we will not privatise forests and water. Because it is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What does this other mean? I don't understand what makes the difference. If it's all good that's privatized, then why not that. Or maybe you're aware that it's the end of everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51470	Thank you, too. We're done discussing clubs. We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Nadica Jelash. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51471	Thank you, dear Vice President. In my debate, I would actually like to elaborate one thesis, a thesis which has been said several times today by the opposition, which is that this government is carrying out a consolidation of state finances but in a way that it does so to the tax press. So, let's remind ourselves of the current government in 2011 took over power with a 14 billion kuna deficit. So in the first year of her term in 2012, she managed to cut him by 5 billion kuna. However, here, in the first half of 2013 already in 6 months, the deficit that was actually planned for the whole of 2013. What actually conditioned the occurrence in an absolute number of such a high deficit? Therefore, the reduction in income on the one hand and the increase in expenditure on the other. Therefore, this imbalance between budgetary revenues and budgetary expenditure. However, the fact that budget revenues are reduced speaks in favour of the fact that there are no new taxes, that there is no additional tax presses. Of course, those who have not paid taxes so far, who have cheated on the state this urge of the current government to introduce discipline into state finances, so to introduce one financial order that it is a presy. They were not taught such a order and of course they rebel against such order. However, I repeat, there are no new taxes. On the contrary. The state gave up a significant part of its income in favour of the economy aware that the permanent stability of the budget can only be ensured through economic growth, so through the growth of domestic gross products, and not by borrowing. In fact, the borrowing policy has also led us to talk today about a public debt of 190 billion kuna with a perspective of 200 billion, and that 200 billion at an annual level is carrying new 10 billion kunas of interest. So, the cost of interest. That's actually an amount larger than the budget deficit. And if that interest is not paid, it increases public debt. So next year, we're not going to have 200 billion, but just from that title of interest increase, we're going to have 210 billion kuna. And so it actually goes on forever, as a colleague Linic once said. It is actually the fate of Croatia. These are funds that do not go to the economy or Croatian citizens. They simply go for the service of old debts and unfortunately most of these loans, these old debts went into consumption. So it wasn't used for production. And let me say something about the revenues that the state has given up in favour of the economy. So she gave up some of her income from profit tax. About 2,000 companies therefore benefited from the legal opportunity not to pay taxes on reinvested profits and thus remained about a billion kuna for businesses. This is actually a strong injection to the real sector because it raises their level of competitiveness, i.e. capitalisation by nearly 6 billion kuna. And those effects will, of course, count on it that way because we think that exemption from the profit tax remains. So we're counting on it to be felt for the next few years. It is true that Croatian companies have a very low level of capitalisation if they are excluded from this infrastructure large public enterprises then that capitalisation is somewhere at 20 percent and it is really talking about the high dependence of domestic enterprises on foreign capital, and of course the use of foreign capital has a high price right through interest. Furthermore, the state gave up a billion kuna by reducing its contribution to health insurance by two percentage points. This reduced gross labour price, therefore in opposition to it or not. Therefore, the fact is that entrepreneurs have been reduced by gross labour prices, i.e. they have increased their competitiveness by around 13%. Furthermore, small entrepreneurs and craftsmen were helped in a way that raised the threshold for entering the VAT system from 85 to 230 thousand kuna. The effect of this measure is that nearly 27 thousand small entrepreneurs have come out of the VAT system. So they don't have to account for VAT on their services. Thus, their prices can be lower, and this automatically implies their higher competitiveness. Furthermore, by about half a billion kuna, parafiscal impositions have been reduced. So, all of these measures that I've listed are actually a certain cost of this moment for the state register, but this is also the country's investment in the future of the Croatian economy. All these moves the government has made in good faith, so to speak, and expects the entrepreneurs to deal responsibly with these funds. Therefore, these are not donated funds which the state has denied and, of course, the state has the right to expect a positive reaction to these measures, i.e. in 2014 certain economic growth is expected. So that's about the revenue cuts. We have on the other hand an increase in expenditure and they have affected the high deficit. In fact, in 2013 for this government is actually one year of great cleansing. The largest skeleton in the closet as we have heard today on several occasions and this government had to face is actually a health care system. As part of the recovery of the healthcare system, 3.3 billion kuna has been paid to clinical hospital centres, which is paid to clinical hospitals. About 1.8 billion more will need to be paid to resuscitate the county hospitals. Therefore, the resolution of this health system was necessary for a simple reason that before this recovery could not be fully implemented by the Financial Business Act, so it should be ensured that the health care system pays within the time limits provided for by this law, meaning within 60 days. The next reason for the dynamic growth of budget expenditures, and then the resulting budget deficit, is that farmers are ahead of schedule, so before a billion kuna should be paid. Also in the first six months of this year, interest rates for refinancing of old debts were increased by slightly more than 500 million kuna. When all these costs are summed up, therefore, health system recovery costs and early payment of funds to farmers and interest costs we will see that it is somewhere at 5 billion kuna level, i.e. if there were no such expenditure, the deficit would be equal to what was achieved for the first 6 months of 2012. So we could roughly as the previous government did do nothing, not increase the deficit, and we would have an idyll on paper and chaos in the system. However, the government has received a mandate from citizens to just solve problems and the current government does so, the current government is responsible and this high deficit is in some way the price of the government's responsibility. This government settles its obligations, doesn't drag them year after year as previous and doesn't hand them over as hot potatoes to the next government as she did to us. So, from shipbuilding, from agriculture, from health care, and about public enterprises not to talk. So the deficit is there black on white, he's tall because there's all the dubiosis in it, there's no cover-up. This government is ready to resolve this deficit but what I want to stress will not work or will go very hard without the support of the economy and without the support of the citizens. So, the economy, the citizens and the state, it's actually one system of combined vessels. If one is bad, it's bad for everyone and vice versa if the economy starts, we'll all actually profit. So both entrepreneurs and citizens must be partners of the state. The state gave up one part of its income, which I initially spoke of for the benefit of the entrepreneurs. As far as citizens are concerned, I have to mention one piece of information, so by the state of 30.06. this year savings deposits have grown 3 billion kuna and in these 3 billion kunas is actually the largest relative share of citizens. So it has capital, however, all of these are dead capital for so long as they are not in function of economic development. So that domestic capital needs to be activated, we need to help ourselves to help others. And what I finally want to say is that we really need one consensus, a consensus for development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51472	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. The first one called Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51473	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, Jelash, you were a little contradictory in your discussion. On the one hand, you said that our economy was booming because 2% of our health care has been cleared, the rate has been reduced from 15% to 13%, and that certain savings have been made, and on the other hand you were talking about 5 billion kunas as much as the loss in health. Now this economy that has blossomed by 2% has given other effects. I don't know, I don't see what these effects in the economy with those 2% this is made. Whether there has been greater economic growth, whether there has been greater employment, whether there have been major financial effects, and on the other hand, this loss for which there is no coverage in the budget will be covered by new borrowing, with new credit obligations paid for by interest. So that part of the lack of health money that we could cover with certain contributions is the effects in the economy are nothing with that 2%, we're covering it with a new debt and new interest obligations that we have to pay for. Is that a good job? I don't know, it might be a good job for you, but it's not for me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51474	Thank you. We have a colleague Jelish's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51475	So I really didn't say the economy was booming. I don't know where you heard that. I didn't say it. I said the state gave up part of its income if you're alluding to this reduction in health insurance contributions from 15% to 13%. The fact is, the state didn't give in to those revenues. So if the state didn't get it in its cash register, it's obviously someone else's, the rest of the economy has reduced the gross labour price and the economy should be more competitive, so in the future it should be investing in the future to achieve better results. And as far as health care is concerned, it is largely financed in the EU from taxes, not from taxes, and this is precisely what this government is trying to do. And if we look at an increase in VAT from 23% to 25% then the financial effect is exactly the same as the absolute amount of this reduction in health contributions from 15% to 13%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51476	Thank you. Next replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51477	Thank you very much. My colleague had already taken part of the replica, but I have to ask Mrs. Jelash, so she talked about the health care contribution being reduced from 15% to 13%, and that it relieved the economy by reducing the labour price. This is an effect that was wanted or should have been achieved but feedback on achieving this effect does not mainly because all indicators in the economy have fallen to those that should not fall. And as for health care, the reduction from 15 to 13% is seemingly 2%, but that's seven percent of the total contribution to health care, and seven is 14%. So 2% of 15 is a week, which is 14% of 100%, and then on the bridge you got, and on the pot you lost. So you gave the economy to unload and then you had to pump into the health care of 3.5 billion kuna. And what did you get? Nothing. Made cash believe and nothing else. What are those moves? Well, that's how my late grandma Peusha does it, so we're gonna give these to her and we're gonna take these and you're back on yours. That's not how you do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51478	Thank you. We don't have an answer. Next line, Jozo Radosh. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51479	Thank you very much. My colleague Jelash spoke of increasing government debt and creating deficits and borrowing for consumption, not for development, which, of course, made it difficult for this debt to return because it has nothing to return from because nothing is being produced. Not only was this done, but those who did it today are being made as if it had nothing to do with them, today they're full of all possible and impossible solutions by messing up that they created such a situation, and I'm going to give you an example. You weren't talking about the pension system and I'm going to say something about that system. Today, in the Republic of Croatia, in 2013, pensions or pensions amount to €36 billion, and 19 billion kuna is collected from pension contributions, so 17 billion kuna goes from the state budget. 9 years ago, this relationship was not good either, but it was much better than in 2013, then it was collected from 14.6 billion kuna, and 22 billion kuna was paid, so the difference was 8 billion kuna. In 9 years, that difference rose by 9 billion kuna and if it had been held at that amount of minus 8 billion kuna, then they would have had 9 billion kuna and actually would not have had a deficit or would have been very close to zero in all possible criteria. This is an argument, another indicator and an example of the kind of behavior that then confronted us with this difficult financial situation in which Croatia is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51480	Thank you. My colleague Jelish's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51481	You have so well noticed that borrowing has gone into consumption, not in production and what we can right now conclude that it is in Croatia to say that industrial production has actually been suppressed. Croatia is currently a deindustrious country, industrial production is somewhere at the level of the prewar, and we can say that I have been completely lost over the past 20 years, it is a lost time. And this very industrial production is the economic activity that creates the most goods for export and which opens up the most jobs and because we don't have industry we have a huge external trade deficit and we have one high unemployment rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51482	Thank you. Next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51483	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Fortunately, my colleague Hrelja is alive, and I watched him there while my colleague Rados replicated me was afraid that his heart would be fucked as my colleague Radoš advocated that Croatian pensioners were not allowed to raise their pensions, but well, from then on. So,...... Yeah, yeah, 'cause when you talk about something, then you need to know what you're talking about. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] My colleagues, Jelash, you said that all the dubiouss were shown in this budget. I'll tell you on two examples that that's not true. I was talking about guarantees for Croatian railways this morning. So last year, a billion and a hundred and this year 200 and a few million more in the first six months. The birds on the border also know that these loans to the Croatian Railways, so those companies will not be able to return them, but that they will be in some future years simply have to be paid. Thus, the donation to the Croatian railways was reduced at the same time, and clearly what it is seeking to achieve. Health care. This famously rehabilitated health care this year will achieve a minus of a billion and 100 million kuna. You don't have that billion and 100 million kuna in your budget. So next year, the minister will have to think about how to resuscitate these billions and 100 million kunas. We could... Some other things but you just shouldn't say that something great was done when certain exhibitions were done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The other thing is, you said one very strange thing, and I don't think that's exactly what your colleagues from the Ministry of Finance have been kindly hearing, just like some statements from your club this morning, and you said that for reprogrammed loans, 600 million new interest should be provided. Look, those loans and the last period, interest payments were paid. If you say a new 600 million for reprogrammed loans should be provided, that means you're more in debt for that 600 million than the original debt. That means your failure or that's the answer to the financial market, we're another sentence please, on this policy of this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51484	Thank you. We have a colleague Jelish's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51485	Yes, unfortunately, those half a billion kunas were due to the fact that we had to be in debt, I suppose, under more unfavourable conditions. A more unfavourable borrowing, or more interest, is the result of a credit rating decline.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51486	Thank you. Next replica Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51487	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Jelash, you were also saying that, at the same time, the government did not increase the tax records and that at the same time put order into state finances. Well, I wouldn't agree with you in the first row that the government has raised taxes. You know very well that the added value tax has been increased from 23% to 25%. That the government has, in the past year, increased excise duties by half a kuna or, more specifically, 51 lira in the past year. That the income of HANDA, which was its original income, has now become the cornerstone of the amendment to the Law on excise duties of the State budget and that today HANDA is on the state budget. And how much funding she has made this way, it says in the report on the implementation of the budget. So it's not true that this government didn't raise taxes, it increased the tax press. And she tried, and that's where I agree with you, and she tried to introduce order. But as far as the order is concerned, it best tells the fact that the order was allegedly introduced. And that increased tax rates, that increased tax rates, in 6 months the government achieved less tax revenues than it achieved last year when it was reportedly a riot and when all these laws that actually led to an increase were still in force, leading to an increase in taxes in the Republic of Croatia. And secondly, you say the high deficit is the government's responsibility price. I think the high deficit in the government's inability to implement structural reforms is to reduce the expenditure side of the budget and then reduce the deficit. So, the government failed to put the expenditure side under control, however, the expenditures, which you yourself admitted, increased the expenditure directly saying that no order was introduced and that no strategic reforms were implemented, structural reforms in the public administration, neither in the pension system nor in the health care system. That was just a moment ago so that I would not repeat myself, so even in the system of state administration, this government did not implement, did not implement strategic reforms and structural reforms in the public administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51488	Thank you. We have a colleague Jelish's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51489	Thank you very much. So again, I'm saying there's no increased tax press. So it is the fact that the VAT rate has been increased from 23% to 25% but at the same time the contribution to health insurance has been reduced from 15% to 13%. So there's a financial effect actually evened out. And that's actually the essence of this government's fiscal policy. So it has been done and it is to consolidate the economy on the burden of citizens. And the only ones who have the right and the right to sue for being harder on them are citizens. The economy remained a certain amount of free resources just because the state was working to disbursement it. And as for the change, that is, structural reforms, unfortunately, you've been in power for a very long time and you haven't spent any. You've given all these reforms like hot potatoes to us. This government will implement structural reforms both in terms of health and education and in terms of social welfare, I say we wait until the end of the mandate and we will see the results of these reforms. There's one more thing I have to say. At the moment of great honesty at the Finance Committee meeting when the budget was discussed for the first 6 months of this year, so your former finance minister said we didn't implement those reforms because we were afraid, we were afraid to lose power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51490	Thank you. I'd like to ask my colleague Shuker and my colleague Radosh if he's so interested in the debate, let's have a little tolerance for his colleagues. And the last replica, Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51491	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Jelash, I listened very carefully to what you're saying and so far you've been a valuable representative to me who I would have said in this universe. But after this debate, you unspeakably boarded this vessel and went to this parallel universe, which is spoken of by a fellow who sits not far from you. Because really how to spread all of your expertise when things are very simple, very simple. You give someone 3 billion to be in debt for 3 billion with a 6% interest to pay that back. Or you give someone 2 and a half billion to be in charge of 2 and a half billion with a 6% interest to pay it back plus that you've given them one other health care system and you say it's all good and it should wait until the end of the term. It does seem grotesque sometimes because you said there was money. Even 3 billion are stored in additional savings, i.e. Citizens save 3 billion more than last year. And why didn't you say we have 270 thousand citizens who've blocked accounts with 21 billion debts? If only the state could charge for everything, we wouldn't have a problem with any deficit at all. But he grew that debt in a few months by five billion full. Well, it's not what people have, so they won't pay the bill. They just don't. They have nothing more to pay. Well, that would be very elegant for the state to solve all its problems, but that's not the situation. And then on the other hand, we take care of these citizens. We say we lower that health contribution by two percentage points. We're 13% more competitive right now, and we're not saying that we've raised their electricity prices by 20%, gas for kuna and a half, that we've raised their gas prices by 20%. What's not burdening these entrepreneurs? So I think their costs in that part have increased a lot more than they've gotten at these two percentage points.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51492	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Jelish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51493	Well, I'm kind of not sorry I let you down. I hope to regain your trust in some future debates. But here's the fact is what I said, so there's an increase in deposits on saving what the economy, what the population is. So we have on one side and those entrepreneurs who have extra capital and come to the bank and ask how much you're gonna pay me to deposit money in your bank? We also have a part of the citizens, unfortunately, who have a large share of their savings and lives well on those savings, and they have no idea how to invest, because in Croatia they live excellently on capital. However, you remember that very much contributed very much to the huge division of the Croatian population to that part, that small part that has very much. It used to be about 200 wealthy families and unfortunately the big part that has a lot but debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51494	Thank you. Next up for the Damir Cain hearing. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51495	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Well, it's exactly what we've been listening to today all morning, which you're listening to. Okay, I came back after the morning debate. ... And in a new uniform, yes. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] But this is also true what is said to be the state in 2012, in 2013 left 7 to 8 billion kuna to the economy. The fact is also that the results are too far gone. It's also a fact that we don't need to call the economy. But what this 7 or 8 billion kuna refers to in particular. So there are reduced these contributions for Croatian health care or for the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance, there is a reinvested profit, there are some parafiscal burdens and a clear VAT on that diet in tourism or in catering. It is also clear that it should survive this year 2014. Whether the growth of the gross social product they're talking about will happen, I don't know the government's guidelines, which the International Monetary Fund is talking about, which I don't know about Zagreb's Bank, the prime minister, is what remains to be seen. ... How? [[You can't hear it.]] Istria County won't be lifted That for an economic moment [[/Intruder Batinić: I beg you! Comrade Cain, stop for a moment.]] not only the economy, not the government itself, not the local self-government itself, not this environment that surrounds us, not just the Croatian banks. [[/Upadica Batinić: Col. Matusic, please report to the replica, do not throw it out of the bench.]] What I know about the economy is that we have this transformation, by the state, with local self-government, we have hypertrophy in the number of employees. We have a whole number of unnecessary institutions either at national level, or at local level. We have a whole series of irresponsible behaviors, conformism in this environment. I was talking this morning. We just lost at least 500 million kuna of export products or exports in the first six months. The circus will be so much in the second half of the year. It's two or three thousand jobs. There's one thing I don't know about banks. We also think on the other hand that the crisis usually happens to others not to us. Otherwise, it should be said that Croatia has lost about 150,000 jobs since the start of the 2008 crisis. Where'd she lose them? She lost them in the real sector. And on the other hand, since the start of the 2008 crisis, we've hired our brother 30, maybe 40,000 jobs in these non-profits under quotes industries or in the public sector. This morning I said, a paradigm of what happened specifically in Istria that they hired a man to organize a jazz festival in Grožnjan. The net pays 15700 kuna. When we look at the total cost of 18000 and some kuna, the net salary of 10022 kuna plus contributions to internship, plus material costs. So, a man should raise 300,000 kuna, 300,000 kuna is an expenditure per individual. I agree Mr Milosevic talked about it saying that with, or agree with employers that both the general state and local self-government are too expensive, that we can't just name one segment simply. And I agree and simply that everything needs to be reconsidered and that the principle in this country is put in place that no more than 20% of the budget mass should be allocated for wages. When we talk about that budget mass, then I don't think, so I mean the original incomes not on borrowings, not on the sale of assets, not on similar expenditures. Here's a particular pay Vrsar when we look at their own incomes 33.8%. One Grožnjan 33.5%, one Oprtalj 31.4, one Zminj 28.9, the city of Buje 36.2%, Pazin 35, Rovinj 33, Vodnjan 30, Buzet 29.7% and similar. Either keep your expenses on, pay 20% or let the election go. Or the law that there's no payment above 20%. We can't behave like this anymore, gentlemen. Why we're from the second rate, and we're all going to admit the biggest growth we've ever had there under the 74th year Constitution. It means between the '70s and the '80s. The state was decentralised on the one hand. But I think she was being led by or by those units of the state and similar to the people who approached the state or the municipalities or institutions as if they were their own and not other people's. Let's just say, only in Istria is the number of employees, the situation in all counties is identical. In the upgrade today in 2013 about 3 to 4 thousand larger than it was in the 1990s. I'm aware of the fact that the standard costs. Everything's fine, everything's fine, but everything needs to be paid, too. It's clear that the world is moving on. That we have a whole series of new occupations in 2013 that we didn't have in 1990 or I don't know in the '70s. But all we had at the beginning of the crisis, that's my opinion we shouldn't have today. And clearly when I'm talking about the number of employees I don't even count on these non-productive professions, I don't mean health care and education. They must be excluded. But the second one in my court can be questioned as every businessman does, as every craftsman does, as every family does when they get into trouble. I don't mind eight municipalities, towns in Pula, so much in Pazinstina, so much in Poreč or I don't know in any other town. But I do know only one thing that, say, 50 or 100 people used to work in Pula, now thousands of people in that non-profit sector. It is also simple in Croatia everywhere. So these budget expenditures for salaries must be limited to, say, 20%. If it doesn't, there won't be an investment, there won't be a social next day, there won't be a development tomorrow, there won't be any other public needs, pensions will be reduced and all that is simply done. If there are at least 10,000 people working together in the county of Istria, in the state administration and local self-government, 4 grand in education, 3 grand in health care,... A thousand 500 in the police, a thousand in local self-government plus the judiciary plus customs plus port captains, that's what someone has to pay for. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's a hundred million a month something, kuna, dollars, it doesn't matter, I said a little bit, kuna. Croatia has a problem next year of one billion kuna for one billion euros, meaning two billion for interest, 4.6 billion kuna for Europe. I agree with those who have said that we may pay more than we will withdraw next or that national year from Europe plus one billion kuna for collective rights. With the emphasis that every other kuna that will return to us from Brussels is the budgetary kuna of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And there are no dilemmas. I also call on this opportunity to simply spend less on both state and local level. To look up to the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia. About us MPs. And not give me the mayor's office for six months in Istria spends 2.3 million kuna and Mr. Milanovic's office 3.5 million kuna. That they spent a million 670 thousand kuna in the Government of the Republic of Croatia in 6 months for the protocol and communication in Istria County? 633 thousand kuna. That my promotion costs me a million and 200 thousand kunas, to work in the field 5.5 million kunas, for intellectual services, and all intellectuals to Einstein intellectuals to Einstein, 2.5 million kunas, for computer services million and 300. And so on and so forth. And finally to answer Matusic, the hand was dried by him who would vote in this House, that is where I think of you for the abolition of the County of Istria. Don't play with it, gentlemen, and the costs in Istria and here and elsewhere should be reduced.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51496	Thank you. Thank you, colleague Cain. I would just like to inform you that on the websites of the City Associations they have denied this pay data for certain environments. If you haven't read, I point you to them. Now we can start with the replicas, the first one was Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51497	Right now, fellow, let me get this straight, I agree completely with you, I won't basement anyone but I agree with you that you need to defend the county positions and that the counties have justified their role and should function. And we can talk about the waste of individuals. When you say your county spent 2.5 million kuna on various consulting services. So this is compared to the government's 200 million kuna they will now give for sales consultations, sale of Croatian property. The 200 million kuna consultation costs for the sale of INA, Croatia's insurance and everything else. Here's the information in the media you can see every day. I have information in the media you can see every day. What's that compared to your two-and-a-half million kuna? I'm sorry you're against the employment of a single person to organize a jazz festival. You know why? Because if this person really knows jazz and jazz festivals, that person is, if he brings the right top jazz ensembles to Istria with these ensembles he can come and maybe a hundred thousand tourists who will be staying in Istria those days when the festival is. And I'm convinced if you found the right person, now that's the second question if you found the right person to organize the jazz festival. But if you find the right person, I'm sure it'll be worth the investment and more. Look, at the Montro Jazz Festival, which lasts only a few days in Switzerland, more than hundreds of thousands of visitors from around the world come from just one reason for these few days to be at the top jazz festival. So here I am, and I want to believe that you're going towards that lead. And don't say that. Culture, the EU culture sector earns more than some industries such as textile industry, leather industry, etc. This is a much larger share of the GDP of the culture sector than those industries I have now cited. And you must know that, and Croatia must do so. Don't consider culture the cost of what you do today through your debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51498	Thank you, too. We have an answer, Comrade Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51499	It's certainly one thing that 250 million kuna, so that would be somewhere around 35 million euros is not spent in the government for consulting services. I can't believe it. I can't believe it. But let's let it go now. The thing is that the Real estate AGENDA is now turning into the organizer of the Jazz Festival in Istria. We boasted so much in Istria that in order to preserve our own identity, we would encourage a balloon, I don't know the regiment, walking pastures. So I wouldn't mind hiring one reference officer, one principal, one local minister for a balloon or damage, but not really for jazz, because Istria is not Switzerland to me, even though no Istrian would mind if we were better than Switzerland. ... That's right, we're picola Swiss. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51500	Thank you. Next replica Goran Maric. My colleague Cain, the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51501	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, it is true that 220 million kunas are agreed for consulting services for the sale of state property. And that doesn't need any knowledge at all, that only requires impertinence and contempt for state property. But I'm going to say something that maybe Mr. Matusic won't support. Here's the budget you've been saying about hiring and, in your opinion, wastes money needlessly. Just watch out for a few indicators. In Dubrovnik, a private association maintains the walls of Dubrovnik and the state pays for the reconstruction of Dubrovnik from the state budget. Five million kunas. ... Another institution, but for the reconstruction of Dubrovnik 5 million kuna. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Support for animal disease control 24 million kuna, achieved in the first six months of 3.7 while animal health protection 184 million kunas realized 62. I'm for animal health, but it's something or they're too healthy or something wrong. 32% realized, foreseen. The State Office for Trade Policy 18.8 million kunas reached 37 million kunas. Only 23%. Public Private Partnership Agency 62 million only 30% achieved in the first 6 months. Now watch this. The Agency for Pressure Equipment on Official Travel spent 340,000 kunas in six months, the Pressure Equipment Agency. Croatia's intellectual services accreditation agency even millions and 263,000 kunas. How much Croatia spends on intellectual services is the first country in the world for development, wealth and knowledge. At the same time, the Competition Protection Agency is financed from the state budget, and the regulatory body could certainly finance itself and can and should, but it does not respond to one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51502	Thank you. We have a colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51503	So what can I say? $340,000 for travel? Me in the County of Istria, my mayor 55 thousand kuna per month for the national team, 55 thousand kuna per month. Well, wait, man, I got nothing, so I know a hungry man can't work. But wait, go to a little cheaper restaurants, eat all the same just a little cheaper. So give some of these costs to the others. Well, I was also speaking this morning, Mr. Representative, and I find it incomprehensible that some ministries spend, for the first six months, at least 10 to 15 percent of the planned funds maximum. It's not that, and I think if we want to encourage the economy that they must also be much, much more up-to-date. He doesn't realize these expenses for the first six months at 10%. It doesn't matter if it's the Ministry of Small crafts or whether it's the Ministry of Economy. I don't have the data in front of me right now, but it's about 10 to 15 percent. I think they themselves must be far, far more engaged. And all these costs that are not related to wages, pensions, welfare, work, the economy should simply be reduced. It's such a time to take care of this, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51504	Thank you. Next replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51505	My colleague Cain, I ask you not to invite anyone else, but nobody else to see the representatives of the Croatian Parliament. You've been calling the county employees, working in cities because most of them will only come to work on Fridays, which wouldn't be very convenient if it were happening to us. Better let them do what they've done so far. ... In my name, I've answered, I speak for myself, or it's something I shouldn't. [[You can't hear it.]] What did I answer for? Because you mentioned the law, you proposed in a way that there was no payment of salaries above 20% of the budget, of the basic funds. Given that we would suggest a law would probably be rejected and yet you are a people's man and socially aware, so I suggest that you propose a law in which to limit wages, the ratio of wages in the state, not only for state-owned companies, but also for private people. Let's say in one corporate relationship, the maximum is 1-6. Therefore, it will certainly no longer be that someone, the mass of workers, will be registered to minimum wages but will be registered to some real ones because this is the basis for the director to get more. I was waiting for you to pick up the plate so I could finish. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51506	Thank you, we have a colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51507	Well, I'm not going to suggest that for privates, although I would like that law of revision and conversion and privatisation to be implemented, which is whether or not an obsolescence of this converted crime that this home adopted if I'm not mistaken in 2012 and of which there's just no big benefit. On the other hand, I assure you that a bunch of small craftsmen, that a bunch of small entrepreneurs at this point in this country are both in a worse situation and from workers who work with them. Whether or not someone will believe it in this Parliament but those who have or theirs if they have these small companies know simply how they live that they have exhausted every lip that has been in the family simply assigned to them and only so that they can do orderly business and orderly service obligations, primarily towards their own workers. I'm talking about that kid. The big one I'm up for is one revision of the conversion or privatisation. Speaking of these 20%, you're just making me talk about Istrian County again even though it's not my intention. The total budget of 250 million kuna but there is 80 million kuna of decentralised funds, there is 20 million kuna of credit, there is 20 million kuna from the European Union for wages going 52 million kuna, for the material costs of 80 million kuna. One and the other paragraph 130 million kuna. The question is whether it is sustainable and whether we can function in the future. I guess something changes. So, I'm not the one to shut down or give it to the God of the County of Istria, so I guess that's where we get along, isn't it you or you, here's neither for the other county or for the municipalities or for the cities. Let's just set some rules by which we all have to act the way we do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51508	Thank you. Next... The debate is over, please. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Please do not throw away your call if you have something to comment on. My colleague Kai's microphone, please turn it off. Next replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51509	My colleague Cain, you have become more involved in your salary debate, or in the whole of your salary in local and regional self-government. Citing, or citing amounts in almost all of Istria. You compared this with the costs of the national administration and everything else at the state level, and then you compared the Prime Minister's office with clearly reducing some of the other costs that this office makes, i.e. these intellectual services in which more than 200 million kuna is clearly and loudly spoken. So since you are in the ruling coalition and the prime minister's favorite, then suggest we make an administrative reshuffle of the Republic of Croatia if you may. 'Cause it's like hot potatoes. There's a little bit of Bauk, a little bit of you, a little all together but no one can go with it just to change the situation where we have almost 6 hundred units of local and regional self-government, 530 municipalities, 20 cities, 20 counties, right. I'm not saying that the county should be abolished, mainly Istria, not Istrian but Istrian Mr. Caine because here we speak Croatian and we don't have bilingual boards yet but I'm surprised that you don't start it already. Because that would actually get you a cheaper local and regional self-government. I'm talking about getting a cheaper local and regional self-government. But that doesn't occur to you. And secondly, the jazz festival, so yes, as musician Matušić said, is whether, so all kinds of culture should be nurtured, including jazz festivals. And besides why you forbade Thompson to come to Istria or else we'd make a lot of money and cover all those expenses for your county and all your municipalities. But you won't, you call it Bora Corba. Is what I can do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51510	Thank you. Next line, Branko... And yes, here you go, mate. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Yes, yes, here's an answer to my colleague Cain's replica. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51511	Mr. Representative Grubisic Boro, there are no more insults for the historians than when you correct us that when we declare ourselves to the Istrians or when...... Not only me, but Gro Istrian, the citizens living on that pole, and you're correcting us that this is not in line with the Croatian expression, so you're telling us that we should declare ourselves under quotes or plead as Istranin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Don't do this to us. ... As far as Thompson's concerned, no one's stopping him from coming to Istria. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Here he was at the beatification of Bulesic. There he was. He was also in Poreč, and he was normally sponsored by the local government and invited and organized by the show, which is now supported by you by such an airy and unanimous vote for a team that operates Poreč today, for example. But the problem with him is in something else that the citizens of Istria at Not in Poreč, but in Thompson and those who simply celebrate one ideology that seduced Istria and Croatia in black. [[Intruder: Porec.]] If I can do anything, I'll do anything to keep the concerts and in public life from saying hello to Home Ready. I think we got along even if it was at the Jazz Festivals in Grožnjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51512	Thank you. Next replica Branko Hrg. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51513	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here you are already in some way distracting fellow Caine that the Association of Cities has published the right information about the amount of funds for wages in local self-government. I'm sorry, colleague Cain, that you fell for these balloons that try to muddle cities in Croatia and that you may not have had a chance to read. Let's say Rovinj spends 12.5% of your salary budget, Umag spends 11.9. It's just these towns that are in Istria. And I'll just read you the finals of what the City Association says. Well, that's it. All cities in the Republic of Croatia have brought their business into line with the prescribed legal restrictions, so none of them are obliged to change the budget or in danger of early elections, which they testify and find State audits. But listening to you in your discussions would be good if you didn't praise the County of Istria like this, because you could really cause a procedure to come to what God didn't give what is being said here and what you were talking about earlier. We need to be more careful now in these times when it's clearly preparing a territorial reconstruction that we're talking about units of local self-government because all of this can later be some argument, especially if it's not true, it's not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51514	Thank you. My colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51515	I did, I did. I picked up the plates again. Now I haven't read this statement from the cities, the municipalities. But I think you're talking about total budgets. So, when we talk about the budget, I'm talking about autonomous incomes 20%, not the one for decentralised funds and for the debts and what comes from the EU funds and what comes through the form of donations and what comes as a means from the central budget. So the naked autonomous income of an individual city, of a municipality, of a county or of a final state. And that the state should be decentralised, that it should be regionalised, that it should preferably be formed as it looked there in 1974 I am talking about local self-government, when Croatia was most developed, and that is what needs to be done. That's what you need without young people's work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51516	Thank you. My colleague Cain, it's mostly tax returns. Let's call them original, no. And the last replica, Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51517	Thank you very much. Comrade Cain, I've tried to catch in this debate of yours devoid of all chains to catch something that would be good, so I've heard it means your mayor is spending his money and it's 50,000 on food, i.e. at the presentation monthly, then millions at consultations, and on official drivers, entourage, 300,000 for the jazz festival, etc. But then that conclusion of yours after you say, let his hand be dry for the abolition of both the Istrian County and such. So what are those messages? So if we're against termination, then we're allowing everything that he's doing right now, and if we're gonna shut it down, then we're not letting him do it. That's how I understand it, for me it's logic. So you actually care that he's doing it and he's doing it neatly and he's your neighbor. He was elected by the citizens of Istria, he was the mayor of Buzet, you were just an ordinary citizen in it and they said Flego was better than Cain if I remember well and he's the mayor now. But that doesn't mean that now it's due to my neighbor becoming mayor to lift the county, i.e. or make it impossible for him to deploy funds certainly not as you stated it to make it populist as something unnecessary. Obviously, there is in every local self-government of it, but all of this leads to it, and then say that his hand is dried up against being abolished, and then we no longer know what we are saying to Croatian citizens. What they'll think of us when we send messages like that. This turns out that this county should be abolished, and I'm not up for it. But I'm afraid those hands will dry up maybe I don't know where. And the prime minister said a famous statement that God would dry my hand if I forgot you, Jerusalem. He meant Slavonia then, and we don't know where it is anymore. Beware of such difficult statements.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51518	Thank you. We have a colleague Cain's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51519	Mr. Boric, you don't know Istria. My mayor spent $55,000 a month on an ex-wife's team, here. My mayor as well as the mayor of every inhabitants of the Istrian County. I just think that behavior should be disciplined. All honors to anyone who has won the election, including in a way that in the County of Istria, spends seven, eight million kunas per year on the media, which are very much returning those services, that you have employed 4 or 5000 people who also vote for those from whom they receive salaries. There's the HDZ who supported that policy in the air, where you've been at the presidencys fighting for the need to support clearly know who. No Caine, don't worry, not without talking about what money this is just about, not talking about interest. And good luck to everyone, and there's not even a little craziness. In fact, just let the people be successful and let them reduce at least those promotion costs, for field work, for not knowing how to support electronic media, for representation at some decent level. Because this is how individuals behave, it's lost all sense, whether it's their way of getting real estate or what you can read about today. And the county must not be abolished by What a price. [[Intruder: What price.]] And let them continue to, so it will change one day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51520	Thank you. Here you go, Comrade Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51521	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would ask you to direct the debate on what we are discussing. If that doesn't happen then we'll look for a break and just warn 'cause I think this is where this debate is headed. And it's no wonder people laugh at us and experience us like this. It's nice to make some kind of joke, but I think this went where it shouldn't be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51522	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51523	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. When we talk about this point today, I have an English proverb in mind and you probably know a lot of people who don't talk, which is, don't talk about other people's debts if you don't want to pay them. Today, when we discuss this, when it comes to debt, today's critics, when the money was spent, anyway, are now the same ones who didn't have the courage to stand up and object to it. Well, then those who didn't have that kind of courage at the time should have at least so much decency to sit back and listen. However, the greatest troubles of this kind are not only those who love to lie and who, by lying and robbery and fraud, have led Croatia to ruin. It is not only that they are not believed when they say it, it is less trouble than it is for themselves, and that when they are told the truth that they do not believe it, they are measured by their elbows. However, such ones should be allowed to explain what the matter is. Leave them alone, let others deal with them. But the trouble is that you and those people left Croatia in a 15 billion minus hole. Croatia has polluted with financial mines, as Minister Linic said picturesquely. So we were able to reduce the minus by 10.5 billion kuna. It's what critics, today's critics from all over the world say it's a mess, it's, it's about how it's a mess. So at that moment and when tax revenues are reduced, there is also a big debacle and a mess and a disturbance and a failure to find this authority. Consciously or unconsciously not to admit that a good part of these tax revenues is precisely from a free economy which is not taxed because it reinvested its profits further in production. Because a 10% rate has been introduced, because the debt reprogramming programmes that are now deliberately and insanely called pardons because everything that is public is scandalous here and what was previously done under the table because it was a policy under the table that was not to be found out that lies and frauds are being deceived by the public, it was okay. So, in this time of very difficult, crisis, perhaps that no government or state has succeeded in making it possible for this government to leave 10 billion kuna for the economy at such a difficult time. Why? To preserve companies, to preserve jobs, to preserve insolvency. But it's all obvious to someone nothing. Of course, we hear big complaints from those who should and understand but whose associations seem to be more concerned with politics as businessmen than with their economy and their social responsibility. Because the economy, the management, the production and all that's related to it is the social process. And with social processes, it's bound to be social responsibility. And as they deal with politics, they would probably be better, better told by politics, until now or at least now in many we see that some politicians have done business or are still doing it. So even though we've heard more times from the Minister himself, even today and from the Deputy Minister, in half a year, the state has paid a billion kuna more subsidies to agriculture than last year. She paid off the subsidies for the whole year. Three billion kuna health care. What are debts, or loans, and how highways were done, it is likely that more investigators are investigating and calculating. It's hard to figure out how much it cost under HDZ's authority 1km of highway. So you and those critics that were doing at the time for the economy over which they are now crying? Raised the VAT rate and introduced a crisis tax. And now they're saying why, what a repayment of debts, that policy has failed. After all, can we also, and these are some countries, have such logic, such as Ecuador, they say that debt and even have some analysts and economic experts who support it that debt is something that the state does not need to pay. Great. Great. It's a great policy, and you know what it's doing and who it's serving. So you don't have to pay back your debts. In a country like that, nothing's gonna happen. Minister Linic also said we will not raise loans for payment of debts, but debts really need to be paid. That's what I said before and in the replica, that it's not just an economic concept, that it's not just a legal notion, but that it's something that had to be a fundamental question because it doesn't mean something to steal directly and to cheat on it. It's even harder than just stealing or breaking and entering because you seduced a person like that, so it's any kind of creditor. What awaits us and what is visible and objective to expect, ultimately the first steps are also made to launch public information in power plants, railways. In the last term, we heard a lot of talk about desert investments, but no project was prepared. No project has been prepared. So already last year we managed to stop this one crazy borrowing, one crazy spending, that's what's coming to an end. But that's what they see as problems. So, Mr. Deputy, where the deputy has gone, tell him as a faithful associate that there is no need to look at such criticisms because first of all, we need to go from who they come from, from those who really pushed Croatia when they put money in black bags, Croatia is pushed into a black hole and let them let it go without its mourning women, to get it out as we know it and can, without having any desire to be popular in all of this. But I believe that this Croatian government and we here as a majority in the Croatian Parliament have the strength to help the government in doing so and without any personal ambitions in any popularity, any popular measures to carry out our duty in these difficult times. I'm sure we'll make it. And those who once again give you lessons about what you should do, how you should do it, their knowledge instead of in economic textbooks, don't look back at them because instead of in economic textbooks, it's already in the textbooks of crime. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51524	We're moving on to replicas now. First respected colleague Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51525	Thank you. I agree with you colleagues. What you said about the debts because really our opposition has some kind of specific logic that says by chance what a government is, it's a bad government, it's no government, because it can't pay back those debts quickly enough and the amount of cargo that we've loaded on the back of every Croatian citizen. And now look, we loaded it up and these incompetents can't take it off in two days, and we've been loading it for years. We've been loading for how many years? ... Over 15. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] They loaded, and loaded, and sweated, and filled their pockets, and broke their backs to the people, and ye cannot bring it back in three days. And it's a really bad government. How then, and you see how they have tried, and you will not take it down in two days, in two years, because these are my people two days. So this is all becoming a farce and it's really an honor to you, it's a demagogue, but I don't think anyone's that stupid without saying so, so give it enough, just shut up about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51526	Replica reply, colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51527	Well, a very short colleague of Jurovic's. I would answer your line by quoting one verse of a Serbian poet who said there are those who lie and when they ask.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51528	Second replica, colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51529	Thank you very much. My colleague Antičević, I'm replicating that part while you were speaking like that, while you were in charge, etc., there were some extensions missing, so I gave myself a little effort to see what's been going on these 23 years. You were in power too, and we, for a large part, for 17 years now, you're six years old, so let's see how that 190 billion went through history, so we can clear up who was doing what he was doing and in debt. So they say this is the data, they're exact, they're published out there, there's nothing to hide. During the 17 years, HDZ 121 billion, and SDP in its 6 years 79 billion, 79. When we share it with years on the average of the HDZ government in 17 years, 7.2 billion kuna a year, and SDP in its 6 years 13 billion kuna a year. For the record, we don't need to make up who he is now, which is, when and so on. And in recent years, I.E. The last 8 years of HDZ from 2004 to 2011 62 billion, and your last two years 40 billion. What are we talking about? Imagine if you were all that time, so we would now have a debt of over 300 billion. That's what this is about, it's the only exact truth. It's not commendable either, but let's say that in the period 2004-2008 it was only 5 billion more, but since 2009, it's been much more of a recession. But justifying these bad economic moments with you in charge, that something's coming back. Well, look, it's all in your budget, at least it's in mine. I don't know what it says in yours. So now we're paying 2002 and 2003 loans to HZ. Is that true, Deputy Minister? Are we paying back these debts now? So who was in charge in 2002 and third? And SDP's power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51530	Thank you very much. Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51531	First of all, maybe you don't remember, I don't know where you were when the 2000 coalition came to power, and in 2002, the debts of the previous government were returning again, so that you would be in more debt, but no one wanted to give you any more money. However, my dear colleague, the question here is that I've released the dues except for what's in the budget, there's a lot of it in the court files. Stealing over Croatia. Well, that's what's being discussed. It's already crossed the borders of Europe. What was done with Croatia and Croatian citizens in 8 years? And I don't know where you're from at all, are you aware of that or do you think that's none of your business at all? When you talk about these topics, so please, once again I'm telling you there as witnesses you're half of you are witnesses and you say you know nothing about what happened while you were in power. Well, please, of course I'm talking to you. And what has nothing to do with it? You have nothing to do with this? You have nothing to do with your client? Well, come on, I'm talking to you as one of the political furniture. [[Intruding Stazic: No tossing out of the bench!]] What am I talking about? What, about what you don't have the courage, I told you earlier that then you got up and you stood up and you stood up to it and now sit back and listen. [[Intruding Stazic: Do not throw my fellow Fighter!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51532	I'll fight my colleague like this. You went out with a replica and listen to the reply to the replica. If you're afraid to hear a reply to a replica, don't replicate it. Next replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51533	Thank you very much. My colleague Antičević, when I listen to these data from the HDZ 121 billion kuna, SDP 79 billion kuna can only say that you are both champions of the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia in debt. And today, when we have 190 billion kuna, the situation really is what it is and as Mrs. Anticevic said, the situation is very serious. But I don't agree that, as she says, the public debt has been reduced, and all the data here and in the books is that it's increased enormously. So I don't know where it came from, where it came from, that the public debt was reduced from. Secondly, it would be good to find out, as we now know how much anyone owed Croatia, SDP and HDZ are really the right say champions in that. It's no problem to go to America and 6%, 7 interest to take credit any way you want. Mr. Schucker said it wasn't a loan, it wasn't a problem raised if he was a finance minister. That's what he said on TV. So, here we are, and let's look each other in the eye. Let's find out once who was forgiven by the tax was secret, whether it's public. You're saying that you've publicly forgiven this Act on Pre-Fashion Procedure, and HDZ has been doing it in secret. Well, I think they have data and money trails on every kuna in this country, and that's not the problem. In the end, I'm going to send a written inquiry to get it delivered to me, so we all know that all parliamentary deputies know how much it is to whom it is forgiven and how forgiven money is and in a pre-war deal, and in that I'm going to tell a secret part of it even though it was a secret one time, it couldn't be said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51534	Thank you very much. Replica reply, colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51535	Well, fellow, it's about one legal behavior, and the other not only is it illegal, it's destructive, but it's totally destructive when one government does it through its own bodies and these repressive bodies like the tax authorities. It's hard to imagine in one normal state that it was done, that it was done. And now the problem is when the law was passed, which was his goal, to save the company, to save jobs. Then they do it, those who have done it complain. Because it's normal, for them it's unusual to do it and see more talk about it. They learned it, so against the law of their chosen work under the table. That's one thing. And second, when you speak here, some of them are in debt, others are in debt. See where these debts as the then coalition authorities went now. But we also said no borrowing. We must pay off those debts from our incomes, such debts, and you must pay off where those debts, their debts, and for what purpose. But you see, Mr. Shucker is laughing at it now. He's laughing, he's laughing at people who can't laugh so warmly because you've knocked out their teeth with your politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51536	Next, please, colleague Shucker. Make sure you're in the Croatian Parliament. We're not at a game, don't throw it out of the bench. Next replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51537	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51538	Peace, please. Comrade Ingrid! ... So what I'm doing is exactly what I'm warning her. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] We are colleagues of Ingrid Antičević-Marinović in the Parliament. Replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51539	Well, I don't think the situation is very economical, and it doesn't correspond to the situation in the assembly. But I'll just try to stick to the facts, because facts should never be discussed, let alone argue with them. My colleagues, Ingrid, you said that a message came from the HDZ ranks that debts should not be paid. The strongest message to all in Croatia that debts should not be paid has come through the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement. But that message was sent only to the chosen, to the individuals, to the powerful, who, through their previous business, destroyed the small, the poor and the powerless. If jobs are kept for individuals and for those who are powerful, how can they not be guarded by those who have suffered the same? But only a few data. GDP dropped 2.3% in 2010, was 0% decline in 2011. After that, the decline of 2.2% in this year to 1.5 on average would fall. The unemployed were in 2010. 289 thousand, in 2011, is reduced, I say all of this from the 30th date of September to 283,000 lower in 2011 compared to 2010. To increase to 311 thousand in 2012, today 323 thousand. The debt of the state was 135 in 2010, it increased to 154, and today it is to 195. The situation is getting worse.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51540	Thank you very much. Now you're going to have a debate and you're going to bring it all up. Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51541	Criticizing the application of this law, speaking of some great ones, about some of the chosen ones if you look around the county which companies are in this pre-fashion deal and then you'll see that you're really looking to save yourself after the post to save jobs, to save people, to give another chance. But here when we're talking, that's why it's not right what you're saying, but the question is, how did you let it happen, or how did this huge debt happen? How did the former government tolerate this? Why wasn't it paid? A law has been passed that remains a dead letter on paper. So, here is no problem and now you act like it when even some laws are passed but when they start to apply then almost everyone in Croatia, starting with you here, opposes and has something to say against the application of the law. And that means that the government is that it's starting to work. Because the easiest way to pass laws is whether we agree or not depending on whether we are in power or in opposition, it is a minor problem. But the problem is obvious when some law, or not some but any one, begins to apply. So the question is, where have we lived before? In the land of law, and in the land of lawlessness. What did one say when he spoke to me? You know, five years ago, six years ago, I've had a problem with my house. So how's that? And he says listen to what kind of state my house is. That was, he told me that in 2005.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51542	The last replica, dear colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51543	Thank you very much. In fact, my colleague Ingrid said that she was down by 10.5 billion kuna, which is not true. The deficit today is 13.3 billion kuna. I understand you're defending indefensible but the numbers are very exact. Maybe it was in Plan 21, but the plan wasn't done. That's not what happened. I also want to say when it comes to agriculture is the execution of 61.87% of the amount of 4 billion and 487 million when we talk about agriculture, but that's what we warned about when the budget was made. The HDSSB warned there would be insufficient funds for agriculture. Therefore, this is the only reason why such an amount, if the volume were larger, would certainly be a percentage lower. What is evident is the increase in debts and this is the biggest deficit of the Republic of Croatia since the existence of the Republic of Croatia, but just now, counterpart Jurjevic said shut up. Even when we keep quiet, the numbers speak for themselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51544	We're continuing an individual debate. It's next, dear colleague Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51545	Thank you very much. I think every serious man in Croatia should be concerned about this report ahead of us. The data show what results have been achieved in the economic field so far, the economic area and the state of it. They're not only worrying, they're alarming because they're worse every day. And I'm not going to share now, but the deficit of the state budget is in nine months higher than any boredom of independent Croatia in one year at an annual level. If it's not already information for concern. On September 30th, there were never more unemployed people, there were never more unemployed young people, there were never more unemployed defenders, there was never more unemployed persons. That should be someone you're worried about. If in one year two, three years ago there was a reduction in the number of unemployed defenders, the reduction in the number of disabled persons was the same, and then in the last two years 15% and one and the other groups were the most sensitive increase in unemployment rates. Then we have to wonder what's going on? We have to ask ourselves what we're going to do and how are we going to do if the government debt has increased by 40 billion kuna in a year and a half? It's impossible to stay silent. The view of the present depends on our future. If we're indifferent to the present, then we're missing something, then we're handicapped. We can't be indifferent no matter who's in what position. Obviously, the situation is getting worse over and over again. And here is the SDP proposal here, all two and a half years ago, which came to me on the Committee on Finance and the budget of 12 legislative proposals in the field of fiscal policy, in fact, more precisely from the field of tax policy. None of these 12 proposals have been used now in the last year and a half. There's every proposal that's been explained, it's given up on those proposals. What's changed? We're still depressed and we're still in crisis, negative trends continue to give up on these proposals. They announced in Plan 21 that a high interest tax would be introduced, no one is talking about it. They announced that they would introduce a dividend tax above a certain level, no one mentions it, but insisted on introducing real estate taxes, leading to blockade and intimidation in an entrepreneurial environment. And then in such problems we go to the most pressing sector to reduce and take ourselves three billion and move it directly to individual profit because the owners of the tourism sector are able to say in 90% of the individual cases. It's not a scattered property in Croatia, it's not even a scattered property, it's all concentrated. It's a direct profit. From this day forward, some want to buy the remaining state property that should not be sold at all. So how is it that VAT is not reduced to the processing industry, that VAT is not reduced to the wood, textile industry, to the worst, but we have reduced to those who do best business and who have full capacity and so on. The motives for such a move cannot be found in the economic field and in economic reasons, they cannot. That was an irrational move. At the same time, VAT increases from 23% to 25% for all other sectors. So we have a second rate VAT in the EU. Then who will under such conditions, and doesn't know what awaits him with the property tax, and 32% on a Monday energy all gathered. The first thing that asks the investor energy prices, the stability of the tax system, is only at 4th place, labour costs. These are scientifically proven research, 4th place. However, it is visible from this report for the first 6 months that no one is systematically engaged in all positions of the state budget and items, there is no place where there is no motive for reason and justification for rationalisation... Imagine just before I told one agency I don't know what 340 grand on official travel, a million and 200 grand on intellectual services. Do you know how many such items there are? And how can we increase income? Here's just that we haven't cut them down, we've got them, and they're best grown by increasing their activity. Nothing seemed to increase activity, we blocked economic activity. Is that an inherited, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Effects go into certain periods, that's impossible. But we can't call and accuse everyone, and just be right about the ones who answer. The only ones responsible for the situation in the Croatian economy and in any country are the government and the central bank. If the results were better, I'd say their measures were effective and good. The results have worsened, so they can only conclude that the measures were ineffective and wrong. And as for these other levers, monetary ones, today I said that they don't work, she rests in peace. She acts as an uninterested party in the process, she does not care at all what happens to Croatia, enjoys the benefits of power, high wages. So just to see how many advisors there are at the National Bank's salary, we'd be disgusted by how many advisors there are in one highway, how many counselors have invented places, made-up salaries over 20 grand each, and we've been watching it for years. It doesn't matter who's watching, it needs to be cut once, it needs to be done once and see the money goes to madness, it's unsustainable anymore. And where we have it, we don't want it because then we go to some privates who have changed and run from one activity to another. It's such a feeling that private economic policy is being run, not national economic policy because it's just astounding to the fact that individuals of each agency have such insolence, to establish anyone to engage intellectual services? Over the past 10 years, a billion euros have been paid to intellectual services. in this year only in the first 6 months 324 million kuna. What do we expect to be 100 million euros of intellectual services in a year? So not all EU countries have paid that much together. This calls for a different approach to the state budget, a different approach to the process in general to economic, to detect problems and to ask how these problems can be solved. And not only should it be invented but only applied, but we cannot if we use the methodology, and the methodology of the famous group Mont Pelerin, who is the advocate of the orthodox advocate of fire-filled neoliberal ideas and the neo-oliberal economic model, is persistently used. He's dead, and we have to accept him. We have to look for another alternative. There's a solution, nothing else. Give it up, but we're still teaching the economists for quizs and puzzles. We don't educate economists anymore for economic science. We've abolished master's science in everything... In the profession, all over the night graduated, everything, and they have no idea about the essence. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Everybody goes to security, everybody goes to banking. How to do, how to run something, how to create production, how to do it, so no one is seriously dealing with such problems or real structural, no matter how structural reforms, I can't say what I think about structural reforms at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51546	Five reported, six reported replicas. First honorary colleague Dragica Zgrebec, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51547	Dear Marić, you often have a theoretical background and I am very happy to listen to what you have to say. But when we talk about the theory and the creation of a sovereign or public debt, then we have to say how it comes into existence. It's created by covering budget deficits and balance of payments deficits. Let's look at two years, the 2011 deficit of nearly 15 billion, the 2012 deficit of about 10 billion kuna plus the balance of payments, we're already almost at 40 billion kuna. So that's it. And when you talk, there's no politics, there's politics, right? Economic policy is clearly seen through budgetary policy that it wants to strengthen the economy. And you say that profit is given in the pockets of individuals which is not true. And when profits are realised and investment goes not the pocket of individuals but is reinvested in that year for the part you reinvest from profits you don't pay taxes. On the other hand, if you pay, if it goes in the pocket of individuals, you pay a dividend tax of 12%. It is therefore well managed through budgetary policy and economic and economic policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51548	The replica matches his colleague Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51549	Well, of course, Comrade Zgrebec, that public debt is being financed by the deficit. And the truth is, you said it was 2010. 14, 2011. 14 billion kuna deficit, 2012. 10 billion kuna deficit. That's right. These are the facts about them we won't discuss at all. And the fact is, you planned the same level for the 2013 deficit. But it's in the budget, it's based and that deficit on economic growth. No element economically could have been a foothold to plan economic growth. And today, nine months after we have all, the report in nine months on the implementation of the state budget, and if they say only six months here, it is visible and impossible to achieve economic growth in this year and we still don't have budget rebalancing. And there will be deficits at least by the end of the year. I'd like it to be 10 billion, but it's going to be 17 to 18 billion kuna. That's what this is about. No announced and expected growth is realized. Your ministers, the vice-presidents of the government, have so many times publicly explained what they expect economic growth from, and have given up on that. Then when growth is not achieved, they say the results are expected after all. So when it's not a 2.2% drop, it's 1.5% or 1.8%, then that same vice president says this is a great result, we're not going down 100 meters per second, we're going down 90 meters per second with a free fall. That's not good thinking. What is the sin of admitting a mistake? So just this recognition that you are now announcing an increase in VAT in the tourism sector is already a great recognition of the error and thus talks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51550	New replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51551	Thank you very much. A well-respected colleague agrees with your content, the content of your debate, and one might agree that it is not addressed to the wrong address. You should have told your former government all that. And today when you criticize how much money was spent on intellectual services, on intellectual services, where I'm lucky they hired you, even if they paid you more than they paid FINA. Maybe we'd all have less problems together today and not discuss it this way. And I wanted to tell you more about the announced real estate taxes, so you shouldn't even give it up, maybe you should talk about it well. So please, today we're all paying communal fees for the apartment, for the house. She certainly in that tax that would replace that fee must not be higher. But please, when the banks had taken up apartments for citizens who couldn't pay loans, they kept locked up and didn't pay taxes. Well, that's, I mean, crying out for justice to tax it the way it is. And yet as one kind-hearted and mental man, I wanted to ask you a favor to tell your colleague Shuker, but he came here who was the heroically hidden, covered up... which he objected to from there, I'm not ashamed that I was opening the elevator, yes, an elevator of 12 courts and state's attorneys only sorry I didn't open the prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51552	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51553	I told my colleague, Ingrid, that any government and then the central bank is responsible for the economic situation in the country. Therefore, if anyone needs to be addressed for something, for the state of the country or for the wrong measures, then it is the only place for the Government of the Republic of Croatia to receive such criticism or such commendation or remarks. When you talk about real estate tax. There's a communal fee, but there's a house tax at the same time. But there's been a persistent talk about the property tax, and it's always about real estate tax. It wasn't defined at all what the property was. At the same time, the government announced it would also tax the financial sector. The financial sector is not touched by tax policy. Touched. Why don't you cut the real estate tax without introducing a tax on the transfer of business shares or the owner of... shares. Why? It could be 3% here, and that's where it's going to be 2%. What's the use of transactions and real estate changes, the state benefits. Whoever buys the real estate or gets a little refurbishment or something in it, something's going to happen, or they're going to renovate. And when someone buys a share of society and state, it doesn't do any good. And secondly, what happens to assets outside Croatia? Who owns trust accounts, funds abroad, I don't know. ... Because you don't know exactly, but you know why? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The only clue that's impossible not to expose, impossible to undiscover is that money trail. All other clues can be suppressed, but the money trail is impossible to hide. Therefore, it is only possible to reveal everything if there is will and desire.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51554	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51555	There are 14 billion euros abroad from Croatia illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51556	Next replica, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51557	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maric, I agree with your presentation. Somewhere you said, it seems to me from the beginning that the government died of construction in Croatia in part and by announcing a property tax after which it clearly withdrew a second series of measures. If the Government can influence one activity with its own measures, it is certainly construction or construction. But what happened? When the budget is compared, i.e. the 2012 report, and even these 6 months this year, then it will be seen that the ministries and public enterprises have reduced investments by almost 50% compared to 2011, and during these investments the construction sector has been engaged, so we have died of road construction, we have died of complete construction of public buildings, construction of a drain system, water supply, etc. Croatian waters have invested less than they had previously invested, etc., etc. The government therefore directly reduced investment by its measures, and talked about the tsunami of investment and especially the tsunami of investment in the state sector, and on the other hand, we see that some ministries that might have been able to boost this are currently having executions of around 10% to 15% for the first six months. But that was not only the reason why we died of construction, but the minister further contributed to such a condition in Croatian construction, e.g. by announcing new taxes or changing certain taxes. We're talking about reducing the incentive on housing savings that went towards savings in housing savings. Furthermore, we are talking about the elimination of the first tax relief, or the exemption from the first real estate tax, etc. So the government expects investments, and right through the work of the ministries, the work of public enterprises does not carry out the same investments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51558	The replica is matched by counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51559	So the overall economic activity of counterpart Bačić depends mostly on the construction sector. To die that part means to make a suicidal economic move on your own. The number of building permits issued already shows that it is half a year smaller than it was in the previous year. It already shows how much that activity died. But it can't even increase when we've increased the water charge, increased the connections, increased the electricity 30%, increased the gas, increased the municipal fee, so what we've been doing wasn't good enough for the square to turn into a cubatur, and that affected it. But today, when we see how much we spend on the telecommunication 240 million kuna a year, and when I crossed a recent border into Germany, I get a message from a telecommunications company of 1.7, you can phone 10 times cheaper. What does this Competition Protection Agency do when someone can hold a 10-fold higher price for years than is a normal price. And then we pay that agency out of the state budget. The Competition Protection Agency is equally responsible for this situation in the Croatian economy as well as the National Bank as an institution because instead of protecting and acting with its measures to increase competition with as many market participants as possible, it directed its activity towards the protection of monopolies. It serves to build monopolies and oligopolists and protect cartels in Croatia. And we're still paying for it and looking at the same person for years in the same place. Imagine, we have 20 years of the same vice governor, we have 20 years of the same principal, it's unsustainable by the nature of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51560	Replica, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51561	Thank you. Comrade Maric, you have rightly said that this report actually shows all the failures of government policy. I'd say this six-month report this year shows the collapse of government economic policy. In the middle of the term of office, this government failed to resolve a single crucial issue regarding the assumptions of economic growth, but I will say something about a problem that is plagued by the citizens of Croatia, and this is about a pre-fashion settlement that you have also partially touched. In fact, it is certainly a fraud of Croatian citizens and Croatian entrepreneurs, regardless of what our colleagues from the SDP are trying to show it as a good law. The only one who had the guts to make it clear and say it is Judge Kolakusic who should be supported because he is telling the truth and the truth is that the law is a fraud. Why, because it only suits the chosen ones. How can a tax debt be forgiven to an entrepreneur who received the Golden Needle of Siscia, a SDP member. 120 million kunas of debt are forgiven, forgiven by the state. And then he boasts in the SDP that they've cut their liquidity, they've cut the claims. These same SDP entrepreneurs who were exempt from the tax debt also owed to some small, other entrepreneurs. And today, this same SDP government of small other entrepreneurs, craftsmen simply choke them to death with 2,000 kunas, and forgives 120 million kunas to their members, allegedly very important and significant entrepreneurs. So it's absolutely a bad approach. But I would say except that it's a failure in economic policy that the government is successful in one part of it, and it is successful in threatening citizens, in threatening entrepreneurs, privates, in threatening craftsmen, in threatening doctors, in threatening everyone who does something in this country. She's very successful at that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51562	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51563	Thank you very much. Comrade Matušić, the best people know what reality is. No one can convince the people that he's better off than what he's feeling. No one can convince employers that their business environment is ideal for investment, they react with automation. They have built a reaction sensor if the environment is positive. Why is there no investment? They don't need to be attacked. They don't invest because they don't get paid. It's worth more years to keep money in the bank than to invest. This is all about politics, economic policy. Employers react and should not be called. Today it's all a small part of the world. Everyone knows all the conditions. So here is the Croatian Chamber of Commerce in all EU countries, all of which are indicators, what are the data, what are the rules, what are the conditions, what are the deadlines, is going where it is easier, where it is. But I am saddened by the fact that Italians skip Croatia and go to Serbia to build factories. It makes me sad. And it's always the government's responsibility if it happens. But again, I say he must also take care of monetary policy. And as for gold needles, year managers, either forgive their debts or end up in prison, or end up in bankruptcy and fire people. But no one asks where 3 billion are from just one company that is now in a pre-determined settlement and which is why the Commercial Court reacts because it is a discriminatory law. And it will not pass not for us, not for politics, but for violence against the judiciary and the judiciary matures and resists such violence. I'm sure. And let him resist if anyone brings against the constitutional provisions and discriminatory provisions. Let him stand up against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51564	Next replica, dear colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51565	Thank you very much. Namely, you were talking about politics with your colleague Maric. Tax policy is one very serious policy, not wandering. The VAT today is one, tomorrow the other. That's what's pulling investors away. But what worries us in the Croatian Parliament, but Croatian citizens are also test balloons. Sometimes certain taxes are not introduced, but only the release of a test balloon is caused by effects that are inexplicable. But looking at the revenues collected this year in the first 6 months of tax, they are by 118 million more collected. So last year there were 30 billion 331 million 425 404. This year 118 million more. It's a sign of a tax repression. But it will not help this budget that we have in place, it needs budget rebalance, and it is evident that this government will not have the strength to hit the financial sector, this government must not touch the financial sector because there will be no credit. We're very dependent on this financial sector right now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51566	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51567	Comrade Bubalo, for each area, and especially for such extremely sensitive areas, there are fundamental principles that should always be held. The basic principle in tax policy is that the tax system must be stable, stable in the long term. I think there's a more unstable tax system in Croatia than time. It changes tax rates more often than time. That's inadmissible. Also, you mentioned announcements and the release of balloons. If it's forbidden anywhere, it's in that part. As in the banking sector, you can't play with that kind of thing. Imagine someone announcing now, today here that one bank is in trouble and the question is whether tomorrow anyone will be able to raise a deposit. Done. To go with such things, to announce, to give up so much harm, to discourage investors and those who already have activity, to discourage them, let alone new ones. Therefore, the tax system, apart from having to be stable, cannot be debated, must be fair and must correspond to the strength of the economic taxpayer. And we seem to keep trying the opposite, to be unjust. And yes, that's why I called today it's Hamurabi's code because the more economically powerless the tax and the greater the press towards it and the higher the payload. The more economically betrayed, the more tolerated it is. The basic principles of tax policy are violated, and then such tax policy results in an activity which does not result in tax revenues due to a deterioration in economic activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51568	And the last replica, dear colleague Nadia Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51569	Thank you, Vice President. In your discussion, you found the state of the state alarming, and in this context you asked the question of how in the last two years, so in the term of the government's debt increased by 40 billion kuna. Even though I know you know the answer, I'll say it anyway. So, the shipbuilding has been renovated, most of the health system has been rescheduled, railways are being rescheduled, Croatian airlines are being rescheduled, guarantees are being paid on the roads. So, a series of areas have been resolved, a series of sectors that you've been constantly pushing under the carpet for years, and that's why public debt has been increased. And as for the high unemployment that you have also spoken of, and we are, of course, worried, we are very concerned because that is one cumulative consequence of the poor situation in the economy, but you never wondered how much you deserve it. But I'm going to pull a parallel with the government in 2000 to 2003, so when that coalition government took over as the manager of this country, 320 thousand were found unemployed. So that unemployment grew to as much as 400,000 and then unemployment slowly started to fall, and the economy grew. So we ended our mandate with an average economic growth of 6.5% of the total individual problem, 40% of increased pensions, significantly reduced number of workers who worked and did not receive salaries etc., etc. We knew then, so we'll know now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51570	On the reply line, the esteemed Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51571	My colleague Jelash is not correct that the debt has increased because of these things that you have counted on, it is true, but you, when the government took over, did a clean start, brought a budget based on economic growth. Due to the lack of economic growth, tax revenues are lower and the deficit of the state budget has increased. So imagine if an economic growth of 1.8% was achieved as planned, how much State budget revenues would be higher by 2.5 billion and 2.5 billion less deficits. But it didn't happen, and that's the result. It didn't happen, that's the consequence. We can't say right now, the worst executives in the management world are those when they sit on a chair and do nothing but say these former directors what they've been doing it's something terrible. The best directors won't mention the former director. They meet what they have, they know what they have and they do what they know and need. A clean start and a million kunas paid a year and a half ago, five million possible, I only know about a million I confess. And that clean start is the starting point. Based on it, a budget was made. You say we know everything, we have strength, will and idea. That's what we heard. And all the years of our government will be economic growth. No economic growth will occur either in 2012 or 2013. This is the main reason for the rise in the deficit of the state budget. And if economic growth is not achieved, the deficit will still increase. Not because of some additional guilt from the government, but because of the lack of increased economic activity. This will result in an increase in the deficit and will result in an increase in public debt because it will not be possible to cover the deficit without an increase in public debt. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51572	Thank you very much. We're continuing an individual debate. It is next, dear colleague Domagoj Ivan Milosevic. He's gone, so he loses the right to talk about this. The word is received by the distinguished representative Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51573	Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister, they've forgotten a little about you in the last few hours of this debate. However, in this presentation, I would actually like, to the most possible extent, to challenge you a little bit for this pay phone so that all of us sitting here in the Assembly might have and get some information that we do not have, which is related to the implementation of the budget. As we've already been said more than once today, we have been executed here in front of us in six months. The debate was fierce, conducted as well as often on the question of who did what, who did not do what, very often many demagogue arguments were used, and many things were said that were not in the economic context. But what I'm really interested in and what I think interests all of us here is how does the budget that's being implemented in the way it's described in detail in this execution and that's being carried out the way it's mentioned in the report on revenue and expenditure for the first nine months that you've shared with the press at the press conference, how does this budget actually affect our country's financial position and financial stability? And what exactly is our financial perspective? Because the trends and tendencies that show this execution, which in six months' time are warning and worrying. Because Croatia does not function as an island, because in the world of public finances unfortunately things must be done precisely and must be concluded. In the world of policy debates that can be and demagogues certainly have their place and have their own value, but in the world of finance it does not work. The year must end and obligations must be carried out. What concerns us with the budget for 6 months is that he is undisputedly indicating that the result planned is the result of the 10.2 billion kuna deficit will not be possible. However, we also know that the Ministry of Finance and the Croatian government has taken over the planned results on this basis and has taken certain commitments on the financial market and taken up certain positions and provided certain information on what Croatia's financial policy will look like this year, that this will be a policy of consolidation of public finances and a reduction of deficits. Budgeting says it won't be like that. So in 6 months, the deficit amounted to 11.4 billion kuna in 9 months, it exceeded 13 billion. The result and cause of the explosion of the deficit is on both the income and the bulk. In income, I've already talked about it, and on the opposite side, let's not kid ourselves. It's not just a matter of health care. It is about the planned savings on salaries, on the salaries of government and public officials planned for a billion 670 million and on health care of another 800 million, so all together somewhere around 2.5 billion kunas will not be realised. In 9 months we see the savings achieved from 800 million kuna. We see in the new paragraphs that not enough funding is planned for pensions because in the first 6 months, pensions are more than 50% and another indexation awaits us. So there will be about 400 to 500 million kuna. Some major items such as these famous transfers and shipbuilding subsidies, such as the HANDA transfer, were carried out in the first 6 months with a minimum percentage. So, even on the dissipated side, he's threatening to break up the spending for a few billion. All this together means that it will not be possible to implement this budget as planned. All this means together that the fiscal policy announced by the government in the international financial capital market will not be realised and that the Croatian government has lost its credibility to some extent. And these shortcomings, even though you keep avoiding saying it, and I can certainly tolerate it if you're the deputy minister because he doesn't want to say it, or the minister, can only be compensated for the duty. 15.10. It is not possible that a dear colleague of any tax administration reorganisations by the end of the year to garner the missing revenue of 5 billion kuna, no bankruptcy that lasts 15 years cannot give these revenues within 2.5 months. It will be necessary to re-finance the commitments that the budget needs to finance on a regular basis. On the other hand, the procedure for preventing excessive deficits is on the other side of Croatia, and the question before Croatia is how and within which time it will reduce its deficit to below 3%. These questions would also be time to talk today because you came here to the Croatian Parliament with the the thesis that everything is normal and that everything is expected. You chose that thesis probably because you came to the home of politics. However, I think it was not a wise decision because the problems facing the budget are profoundly serious, and the rhetorical coverage of these problems can possibly satisfy people who are not deeply involved in these problems. Perhaps it can also satisfy a part of Croatian citizens, but Croatian citizens deserve the truth is that the truth will come out within a month, two, three days. They deserve the truth about the state of state finances, but they also deserve a picture of how it will come out. We have even had a chance to hear here today that the increase in deficits is the result of a responsible government. I understand that the position must defend but I don't understand that it still has to defend such a pardon for meaningless arguments. The result of this fiscal and economic policy, do not be angry, is best seen in the movement of Croatian ratings. No matter what anyone thinks and whatever anyone argues about what he is and what condition he's taken over, he's also taken over an investment rating. For a year, foreign analytical houses gave the Croatian government time to the correct office to set up its economic policy. After that came the ratings downgrade, then in 8 months the SNP put our ratings on negative. So something about this whole economic policy structure is wrong, it's being looked at in this execution. And what we expect in this place, Mr. Deputy, when you come here to interpret the implementation of the budget we expect you to address the real situation, give us an explanation and give us a picture of how we're going to get out of this problem because this is about a matter too important and too serious to be discussed at the demagogue level, the arguments that we can hear today in half the debate. Let there also be representatives who expect real information, who expect this state to be resolved, how Croatia will consolidate its public finances, how it will combine policies for the consolidation of public finances with the necessary policies to start growth, how it will respond to the requirements of the deficit reduction procedures, and how it will address individual breakthroughs on the extremities through which reforms, because whatever we think about whether reforms could be implemented, whether the conditions for implementing reforms were less or more favourable I think we are at a time when another choice and another way will not be. Is this not about the need for any reform, it's about the need to implement reforms that address expenditure while at the same time encouraging growth. [[Intruder: Time.]] I'd like to ask you, and I'd be delighted if you could address some of these questions anyway in this place.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51574	We have two replicas on this exhibit. First honorary colleague Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51575	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Dalic, you are very calm, I would say to cut down this State Budget Report for the first six months. And what I read from your presentation is a pessimistic view of the end of this year and the implementation of the state budget and in the section relating to the growth of the deficit of the state budget and then the clear and dangers that threaten the users of the state budget that you have spoken earlier in the seats in the Assembly. So you gave a very calm review of what we may have done in the debates in the morning, but I completely agree with you. What I wanted to replicate to you is about Handa. In fact, at the end of last year when the government proposed amending the law on oil derivatives and amending the biofuels law, we predicted what is happening now. And this is that, by amending that law, Handa will be left without the funds they had until then because the original incomes of the HANDA became excise and the revenues of the state budget. And this budget shows that the Ministry of Finance does not transfer Handa's assets in that part and that even she predicted when she was making the budget. And then I can think of how much this is in absolute terms compared to the original assets of the Handa. I have not seen here in the budget how much the government transferred funds to HATE, the Croatian Energy Market Operator, because he was directly in charge as a financing and promotion agency of production was fuel and bio diesel in Croatia. And the same thing that's happening to Handa is happening to this operator. Therefore, it seems to me that due to the lack of resources in the state budget on one hand, it is questionable how and how we maintain mandatory supplies of oil derivatives on the one hand, and how we fulfil those obligations in the third energy package when it comes to encouraging alternative energy sources, that is, in this case, when it comes to production... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51576	The replica matches the esteemed colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51577	Thank you. ... I think what we see from this implementation of the budget is not only indications but also evidence of the complexity of the situation in the budget. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] [[Intruder: Turn on the microphone so we can hear you.]] So what I would expect the government to do is show up here in the Parliament with clear measures that are profitable, which will stabilise, regulate and set the budget on the path of the deficit reduction. I know it can't be done in two or three months, not in six months, but at the same time it'll be an incentive for growth. Or I think that the overall results of the economic policy that are reflected and in this execution require that a comprehensive and realistic economic recovery and growth plan be discussed here in the House. Without such a realistic comprehensive and consistent plan, I'm afraid we will not be able to find a way out of the crisis with individual palitative measures. One of the evidence in this claim is these unfortunate economic and fiscal policy guidelines for the next three years, which are just an example of how things should not work. We have guidelines, so then we have some measures that are unrelated to each other, vaguely when and how they're going to be implemented, what effects they're going to give. On the contrary, the situation is difficult, complex and requires that the Government appear here in Parliament with consistent measures that will cover a medium-term period and finally put an end to this agony of games between taxes, negative rhetoric towards entrepreneurship and where real problems are constantly not addressed, not solved and ultimately actually growing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51578	Second replica, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51579	... Mr. Vice President. [[Last-on speaker]] Fellow Dalic, however, you have done all this beautifully analytically, looking at both the Prime Minister and the Finance Minister and the vice president all the time, told us our goal is fiscal stability, our goal is to preserve credit ratings, and they boasted all the time that they were the first to cut the budget nominally. A month ago in addressing the Prime Minister in this House he was just about this fiscal policy, about how he kept the deficit under control and brought out the whole... Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Is it possible that at times when he spoke to this High House, it was either 17 or 18. The 9th Prime Minister didn't know that at that moment the deficit for the first 9 months would be around 13.5 billion. It simply shows that the government as a body is not aware of the facts and I don't want to talk at all about the discussions of today's colleagues who simply under political duty had to justify this all together. But one question arises, do I really, I don't know what should have happened that the Prime Minister's speech a month ago in this High House had to have been simply different. Or he got the wrong information that was served to him as they were. Because apparently government measures unfortunately, unfortunately all Croatian citizens have not produced results. Because if this year's budget deficit is going to be 17 billion, if it's foreseen that in the next three years, the fiscal projections will be 17, 16.5, 15.5, then it's clear that this government has not nominally reduced the deficit. She took him to heaven nominally. And secondly, the financial market is the best indicator of how someone runs politics. Croatia should not have an interest rate of more than 5% at the moment. And at this point, we can't even be in charge of 7%. And... What those who lend us money think of this policy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51580	The replica matches a colleague of Martin Dalic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51581	Thank you very much. Well, exactly, my colleague Shuker, I think that not only did HDZ representatives but the general public were actually surprised by the contents of the Prime Minister's speech when he submitted the annual report, the first annual report, the speech that was expected to be widely expected and in which the Prime Minister was expected to announce and actually describe and describe what measures this will be, and which will begin to address the problems we are discussing here today. The fact that the Prime Minister has failed in his speech to deal with these topics actually shows perhaps and clearly what we all conclude, which is that within the government there is a relatively low degree of coordination, that I am the Prime Minister in a insufficiently effective way carrying out coordination between the objectives and proposals of the Ministry of Finance and other resolutions. Because the bottom line of all of these problems that we're talking about here is that the key to solutions and budgetary problems and measures to launch and revive the economy is out of the way to finance, and what's really going on is that the financial portfolio is very active with its economic policy instruments, which are tax rates, and other resolutions remain quite passive. And, of course, it is very clear and very logical to ask yourself how and how the Prime Minister plays his own co-ordination role and how he actually manages and manages the entire government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51582	The word has now come from respected Boris Lalovac, deputy finance minister. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51583	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's when you asked me to come to the pay phone, which doesn't mean when you didn't call me before that I didn't properly record everything that you've actually done here today, all the clubs you've been saying, so I'm very valuable and diligently all of your notes that we've discussed today about the budget and all of what we find useful we try to implement from a personal point of view when good suggestions come and certainly try to adopt them in that part. What you actually asked me to do today is actually explain how the finances are going to move by the end of the year and in the coming years. What I can say today from this part is that we have shown very clearly and transparently how the finances are on 30.6. and you have seen in my opening speech that I have not avoided how the situation is and from 30.9., that this is very important and important not only because of you here in the Parliament but also for Croatian citizens, actually when we talk about the path of public finances. What I'd like to say and that's true, so in this year it happened to us and right away to say that in my opening speech that I said everything, that this is all normal and expected, at least from our part of the Ministry of Finance, you'll never see one such finance-related non-chalant, so in this part we're always serious and serious about accessing it and we're actually trying to be more realistic and direct and other ministries actually what fiscal sustainability is, long-term fiscal sustainability. When we spoke on a certain side, my position was always that unfortunately without the economy, without a strong economy there are no long-term sustainable public finances, and that's what we here keep talking about, we're focused on public finances, we're focused on budgets and individual items, and the outcome is actually everything in the real sector. And when the real sector is going well then it's actually going kind of easier to tell the finances to meet public needs, however, when a crisis that has been strong in the Republic of Croatia since 2008 and '09. And in '10, '11. continues in '12, then hardly after five years of strong recession that we can talk today about some long-term public finances if that part of the economic downturn continues. So we are aware that it has to change, and that is why we are dissatisfied, and we have said this more than once with certain administrations of public enterprises where there should be more investment, and in fact that no one has a mandate in public enterprises anymore than that those investments are being launched, and that in fact, in the whole part, it does not always include all the burden on the government rather than the economy, and we have also criticised public companies that it actually has to be given more for investment. What is the data when we talk all the time about the revenue side where we said the problem is still unfortunately in the economy,... data e.g. from aggregated comparative corporate tax returns for... from 2007 to 2011. What is actually seen here from the aggregated data actually is that in 2012 there were increased losses of accounting, when we look at loss, aggregated losses at the level of economy. And that's the part where we said that as hard as it is to be with these measures, we can agree here if they have now shown an effect, whether they have shown no effect, but it is still seen that in 2012, the aggregated loss was 32 billion kuna and that they have achieved 45 thousand business entities. So these are still the same for us as the very alarming data and we are trying to look until we find a solution to the private sector we can hardly have some kind of long-term sustainable public finances solutions. We can also cut in this section on certain items, but the effects of public spending will also be seen on this growing but a crucial problem, and that is why we have started from that pre-fashion deal, there can always be certain manipulations that we are trying to actually legal changes to cut these manipulations, but turning to the economic sector in the long term will only be able to have stable public finances. Regarding this package of measures you said, the Vice-President of the Greek Government very quickly I hope that this will be a package of all measures when discussed here in this House and on budget rebalancing, in fact the budget for next year will actually be what you have noticed being prepared one, clear measure and with all the effects related to the economy. So here I'm leaving room to discuss whether these measures are good, whether something needs to be changed. And again I said especially in the sphere of the economic sector wherever we can help we accept all the suggestions, but all the time I'm talking. The emphasis is on the private sector, and now that we're saying that this part is in the economy, we think and we're confident it's going to get the effects. Unfortunately, still when you see that the loss in 2012 was this great, when you watch the accounting loss of these companies. So, this restructuring that we are actually expecting in the economic sector hasn't happened yet. So the effects on public finances should certainly always be observed with the real sector, and any assistance and measures that we can expect for the economic sector are welcome. A certain part of the public administration reform will take place next year, where we thought a certain part of the service provided by the state administration would just turn, to give to the private sector, to strengthen that part of the private sector in those parts of services in which it can be done. And in such a way that they, those components that are marketable, let them go to the market. Very soon you will actually take all these measures, I hope that either the Deputy Prime Minister or Minister Linic will bring them out here. And I agree that it's the only way, with such complete measures that we can then discuss here, that only then can it be the right way for these public finances to be sustainable in the long term. But I'm going back again, unfortunately without the real sector and without growing unfortunately all certain magic with public finances is impossible until we actually have stable sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51584	We have 5 replicas reported to this presentation by the Deputy Minister. First honorary colleague Martina Dalic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51585	Thank you very much. Well, you know, it's become like a mantra, that without growth, there's no stable budget. Well, everybody knows that, and it's not something that in the fifth year of the crisis would be something new to us. Public finances also depend on growth and growth in some ways depends on economic policy. But let's look at the problem on the other side. If you mention so much the private sector, then let's listen to what the private sector says. Here a few days ago, two, three weeks ago, the regional development minister, the Deputy Prime Minister, was extremely pleased that Croatia was climbing the competitiveness scale. Unfortunately, because some other countries have sunk more than Croatia. But there's one piece of information that bothers these entrepreneurs and prevents growth, so it says first public administration, then another corruption, then the third labour market, then tax policy and tax rates. It's a pretty good basis to start creating reforms that will be suitable for growth. What I'm saying is that regardless of the circumstances, there are always some circumstances in economic policy-making, but it's time for specific things to start doing things that are important for growth. Unfortunately, a lot of time has been lost here, dealing with measures that were just the opposite and the opposite of growth, which actually made it difficult and reduced that growth. Time's up. That's what you were talking about before summer, that's what's gonna happen and that's what's gonna happen. It's mid-ten months now. That's not there yet. We've published guidelines. Now you're saying it's not that, it's going to be some new and some other plan. We're waiting.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51586	The replica matches Deputy Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51587	So there's nothing to do with these measures that they actually come from these guidelines. And that's why I'm saying, I'd like to actually be vice president of the Greeks who is actually in charge of the economy that will actually elementize them in this House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51588	Second replica of colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Lalovac, this budget is what it is, and you can in principle fix it by the end of the year more difficult to fix it with any measure, simply neither can God know how to use any means, nor with any charge you can increase the revenue side. It's just a matter of praying to the dear god that our deficit is not 17, 18 billion, nothing else. But what's the most tragic budget for 2014 would practically already have its own contours. Now, I'm interested in what foundations you're building a 2014 budget on when today, neither of you, well, I didn't expect my colleagues from the ruling coalition to say anything. We haven't heard anything in principle, and not a single word that simply this is all that's happened over the past year and a half has been a delusion, a delusion of how you're going to get increased funds. Nor did the publication of the list of debtors bring anything spectacular. The list of debtors has existed in the Ministry of Finance for years, nor has it been charged. 500 million, that 500 million would probably be charged for what would be charged. It's a reprogramme. Unfortunately, he didn't give any results either. We'll see what they give us. Obviously, someone based budget growth and income on the fact that someone didn't want to, and we heard that today we charge in previous years taxes. Now we're gonna charge for it. Everything's gonna be great and wonderful. Here's two years gone by. Unfortunately, there's nothing. Without reforms, without a permanent announcement of a change in tax legislation, there is nothing you can do. Here's the message again today. We're going to lift the incentive for housing savings. So put them away for the good of God, and give them the law, and put them away. But who will be responsible for the consequences of what? Who's going to suffer the consequences because you'll probably get out of... You have to pay off the new hundreds of millions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51590	Time. The replica matches Deputy Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51591	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today there was a debate about half-yearly budget implementation, and in my introduction I actually gave a little and wider, and these measures as I said were not actually so many words today precisely because it was the subject of carrying out a half-year budget. And about the measures that the Ministry of Finance has worked on publishing certain lists of ok we can differ you say they haven't given the measures, we still think it's seen by a better payment of contributions. Although the contributions are more unemployed after the implementation of certain obligations and after the implementation of certain fiscalisation obligations, etc. So, all these measures that in 90% of the cases actually the citizens of the Republic of Croatia supported the introduction of order into that part gave the measures and in fact the greatest support in introducing these measures we actually got from the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51592	Next replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51593	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, I hope that we will agree that investments are one of the possible measures to get out of the crisis, increase the number of employees and then clearly indirectly increase the revenue side of the budget. I watched on page 136. here your report on the guarantees and expenses given in the 2013 period for these first 6 months which are the guarantee days, which are those investments, but here I did not find an answer to one of my questions which I had asked on two occasions when we talked about the amendments to the Air Transport Act to your colleague Antešić for the investment of the construction of the passenger terminal and the management of Zagreb Airport. In public, and even among the employees of Zagreb Airport, it is said that the Ministry of Finance, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, has provided a guarantee for the construction of the airport, i.e. the passenger terminal to the private concessionaire ZAIC, and I am interested in whether it is true because he did not want to respond twice. And is it true that this concession contract has expired or is it still in effect? Because according to the terms of the contract, he expired six months ago. So I'm interested in whether you have any knowledge whether the Ministry of Finance or the Government is in the process of at least giving guarantees for the construction of a passenger terminal at Zagreb Airport? Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51594	A replica of something that wasn't at all about, but at all. That's not what the deputy minister was talking about. Next replica Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51595	Thank you, Deputy. Mr. Deputy Minister, I've heard your statement regarding the pre-departure settlement. There were also criticisms, I'm sorry that my colleague left but I can only know that Dubrovnik-Neretva County was Frano Matusic criticising two good cases in our county. It is a hotel company Plat where it is positively solved, as well as the Hotel Korčula where back 8 days is positively solved. When we know that this company was 126 million in losses, at 1.12.2012, they had 50 million in business losses, I think it's a good assessment of the ministry and good results. All the believers also said that 88% were in favour, they supported a pre-demand settlement and I think that this company was saved, it's not in bankruptcy and we're in pain of bankruptcy because... Korčula has been going on for 15 years. We all knew what would happen, and I think Frani Matosic and a colleague from HDZ would have looked like those two companies went bankrupt. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51596	The deputy minister corresponds to this replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51597	Thank you. Yes, regarding pre-fashion settlements, only once more pre-fashion deals are voluntary religious arrangements. It is clear that at certain times some believers or certain minor believers may be dissatisfied with the process. This is where we chose him. If we can find a better solution, give it, especially in this part of the Financial Business Act and pre-banking deal we asked for consensus and here we got it. Not just in this high house, but outside. So all institutions get involved so that all of what you said about these companies yesterday were two other businesses from the hotel business. By the end of the year, you should actually be consolidated. We are at this point if there is any better model we are always for that model to be accepted, but the model where the Tax Administration charged less than 2% of its income is unfortunately where the processes actually lasted, where the property was eaten and unfortunately showed its failure. I'm not saying this is the happiest model, but actually at the time we're in, in those blocked means, this is the only solution. If there are new models, we are always here to accept them and discuss them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51598	And the last replica, dear Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51599	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, colleagues and colleagues Mr. Lalovec said one good thing, we received material in which the real situation is visible and it is well said and the other speakers said that a simulation was made for this period from the 6th to the end of the 9th month. But what's important is what comes out of all this, and that's what Mr. Maric and Mrs. Dalic have touched, and the proposer himself, in his last appearance, said that all the effects of the economy should be discussed, for investments for all that can patch up all the big holes that are happening here. Now it is behind what he said, behind everything that is visible from the implementation of the budget and the state in which he finds himself as much as Mr. Maric mentions the release of balloons, the announcement of taxes. Recently in the Parliament, the minister even said we would change the law five times if necessary, affecting investors to stop, that investors do not come to Croatia. Just a few examples that I have often mentioned here and even some, where investors from Germany from Italy have spent several million kunas in measuring the financing of spatial-planned documentation, once by the ministry's decision thrown out of the spatial plan and dropped out of the investment. How do we expect someone to come here to invest if we send messages like that? And finally, what results from this delay in the guidelines that you were supposed to provide under the law to units of local and regional self-government for budgeting. The legal deadline seems to me to be half a six-month delay of three months, reading out the guidelines given to local self-government units, never being more shrewd than they are now. And the question arises how will all these units of local self-government agree their own budget except as they think it's best if they don't have the right instructions from your ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51600	The replica matches Deputy Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Regarding investments, I agree, when I came a year ago and we even tried to define what investments are and how measures are seen then you saw last year the information that 2012 recently published means the UN has published it, we did not publish it, that Croatia is the best in the region seems to me over a billion dollars. Then on the other hand, we see these cases individually when we come to certain investors coming across barriers, and that's now what one says they say we're the best in the region, then by others we have cases where they come individually and they can't realize their investments. And that's why the government sent the Strategic Investments Act to this House, and that's why you're going to discuss it. I think it's also one of the instruments and tools to improve this investment in the real sector. But I'd like to see that investment statistics because, according to one of us, we're the worst, according to the UN, it's not this government again, but it's published by the UN that we're the best in the region, so the question is that someone tells us clearly how someone defines what an investment is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51602	We're continuing an individual debate. It is up to the dear colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51603	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. He says one saying that optimists are actually poorly informed pessimists. And really looking at colleagues on my right sometimes I have this feeling, always optimism, optimism when we've been making a budget for 2013, it's going to be good, so we've already rebalanced it if we've forgotten I think in the 3rd month we've already been fixing it to discuss the implementation now for the first 6 months of that revised budget. But even when he was rebalanced, it was that optimism again, and even now that we're discussing these numbers again, it's a great optimism, which is why I said it. I often like to quote what someone said, those who are important to us as important, Prime Minister of Government, Minister Linic, etc. For we have heard no more of it in these two years. I think every serious man when he draws out a particular goal should strive to reach that goal. I think it's the first obligation and the Prime Minister that when he draws what he says he needs to come. I cannot leave Senj for Rijeka and end up in Zagreb and say that I will come through Zagreb because it is not serious for me then. And what we heard in the adoption of the first budget of 2012 in the first month, his statement "The Holy Trinity of Government Policy in the coming period is the sustainability of public finances in accordance with the Law on Fiscal Responsibility, the creation of a precondition for the launch of economic growth and the protection of the socially most vulnerable groups of society". So then journalists were shown some presentations and said "The fiscal stabilisation of the state needs a strong reduction of the central state deficit, with more than full respect for the criteria of the Fiscal Responsibility Act", secondly, "The slowdown of the growth of the public debt share in GDP", and thirdly "The change in the structure of budgetary expenditures from current capital investment spending" and fourthly very important to me, "Communication of the reduction of the income of local self-government units due to changes in income tax by increasing the direct income tax rate by 2%, and on the burden of additional funds of balancing for decentralised functions". This was for 2012, just so we know where we are today because this budget is also the result of some projections and that first budget. Well, then, the so-called. before the budget was adopted at 11 months last year "This is the end of our work in the beginning of 2012. The next year of 2013 is a difficult year in which we must show citizens, ourselves and investors that this is a serious country in which we are seriously working. This is our government and all the successes and failures are ours." And then he followed the slide at the press presentation, which was 19.11. which said "In 2012, a real decrease in GDP by 1.1% is expected" watchful at 11 months before we know that the decline was slightly higher than that 1.1%. And then it writes below "In the next period, a gradual acceleration of real GDP growth is expected to be at 1.8% in 2013, 3% in 2014 and 3.5% in 2015. The main generator of economic growth in 2013 will be public and private investments while the biggest contribution will come from exports of goods and services in the coming period." Why did I need to read that? Let us all understand our own responsibilities and whoever presents this, who is expecting, who went to the river and ended up in Zagreb. I think that's the result no matter what they wrote on the slide. This testifies to me and this state budget and its execution over the past six months. I repeat, we've already fixed it once, and we'll fix it once more before the end of the year. That's the facts. That's the facts. When I look at certain divisions, I can't come to my senses. At the Ministry of Regional Development, which should be the heart of the budget, which should be the driver of investment in the Republic of Croatia, take a look at the standard amount after the State Office for Housing Care and Reconstruction has come out of it. It has a smaller budget than the Ministry of Culture. And we're talking about funds, we're talking about investments in local self-government, we're talking about infrastructure that's important to every local self-government leader, we're talking about what needs to be prepared to get the money in the budget for 2014, 2015. etc., etc. The minimum budget after the Ministry of Tourism, which does not even account for EUR 200 million, has the Ministry of Regional Development. After the rebalanced part and after the State Office for Housing Care and Reconstruction was released from the composition of the Ministry. Then what's waiting for us? In my opinion, this state economy is neither good nor stimulating, it's actually depressing, not inventive, sometimes aggressive and completely ineffective to me. Because today we've heard many times, creating deficits, creating a public debt of 20 billion kuna a year. Just these two years. As much as we are referring to previous times, I think that today I have made clear and proved what relationships are in the creation of this public debt. And in the end, we have a confession from the minister himself a few days ago who clearly said the emperor was naked. That this policy, unfortunately, had failed. I read it that way because how else do we read the fact that we have 270 thousand people blocked, these are family holders who have two, two, three members, that's a much larger number of people who are dependent on these blockades, who today have difficulty in functioning to achieve to hear the constant stability of the budget, so that everyone pays their debts. And then we hear, someone's forgiven for 10 million, 20 million in some kind of settlement. Those who owe billions they become partners to this country and citizens who owe a thousand, two thousand kunas they are there to always be ready to fill that budget. What do the young ones say? Daily press directs them to leave this country, that there are job openings in Canada, Australia, that they are beautiful these episodes, that it is good to go to Sweden, that there are better interests in France and that it is in fact their path as it was back in '45, '46, '50, etc., etc. What do they even have from this state budget? Nothing to me. They don't care about this budget. We're unfortunately saying that different numbers are interpreted in different ways. For SDP, the growth of deposits and savings is actually a recognition that there are a lot of rich people who do not want to invest, who do not want to create new jobs, and then, in their request, they prefer to put it on the bank and do not want to. To me, it's a fear of investment, fear of the future. Because you can't see the perspective. Let's look at the people around me, I watch them every day, I believe you do, too. They're looking at the floor, they're unhappy. They're unhappy with us politicians, too. Unfortunately, they don't even have a chance to watch this because they're forbidden the right to information. But what's there is, they've been through harder times. We remember a couple of odd things and stabilizations all over the place. They survived World War II, and we will survive this. It is only a question of whether we have then achieved what we have fought hard or fought for and whether that state with all its constituents is satisfying the interests of the Croatian man at all. Because while a football player achieves such a transfer that is equally valuable to the sale of a company that has been created for hundreds of years, means one transfer from English to the Spanish club 100m euros, Croatia insurance 100m euros. If it's equal to everything, there's really a question of where we're going and how we want to lead this economic, that's what we call it, politics. Although I say to me these moments are unfortunately sad. And we're always told that we're evil or that we want to. This was obviously not desirable and therefore the question is whether what the Deputy Minister said is true whether this is expected or not, given all those statements that I read at the beginning of my speech.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51604	We have six replicas reported to this exhibit. First honorary colleague, Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51605	We've heard all about it, but we're talking about a six-year-old report. And about the expansion of these five billion. And you know that this year, what was the pressure I'm not going to say organized but there was pressure from farmers and there was sowing at the door and whether that accelerated incentive system in agriculture should have been paid off. Yeah, you should have, and there's a billion of you. Was it supposed to enter the European Union? Of course it was supposed to come in, but it was worth it too. You have membership fees, you have reduced VAT, you have almost half this year's customs duties, and next year we'll stay at 100 million instead of those billions and 700. Should the economy have been disbursed? So, but it also has a price of about 26 thousand and 700 entrepreneurs came out of the VAT system, a reduced contribution of 2% or 13% in its total, made it possible to reinvest profits, 5.8 billion remained untaxable, etc., not to list all these other measures. And at the end of the recovery of 3.3 billion, we expect recovery and county hospitals of 1.8 billion. Count it down and you'll see that in six months, and what we're discussing today, that in six months, it's five billion that are somehow missing. This took great effort, so great responsibility and great courage were needed. No counterpart Maric, he called on a people who felt, exactly the people he felt, he felt these measures that the Ministry of Finance and only the place the finance minister spoke after the polls more than anything else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51606	The replica corresponds to the esteemed colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51607	Thank you very much. Comrade Ronko, we witness the government's efforts daily, they can't possibly remain unmarked. That's what the media says, we here in the Parliament, are constantly making some kind of effort, but the results don't follow that effort, they want to admit it to me or not. It may seem to you that everything is fine, but it doesn't seem that way to us from the opposition. If we even warned on time, you were an optimist, I said so, so we've already fixed that budget that was very good when it was brought in at the 11th month last year. We've already fixed it, now we're discussing the effects of it. To me, I'm not an economic expert, it's inconceivable that one Regional Development Ministry has a smaller budget now than the Ministry of Culture. Who can explain that to me, it can have a hundred million kuna budget, but what's it for? If we have loans that need to contribute to some kind of infrastructure development in local self-government, then why don't we spend it. Look at the achievements on the items of the Ministry of Regional Development, or it's 100% so there's nothing more in the next 6 months or it's 10%, and for what? Because we don't want to prove that our numbers don't look different? We'll find out anyway at the end of the year, 31.12. will come, but live constantly in that optimism and we are constantly hit by bad events or negative trends, so I don't remember it in two years of this government that we have had one positive index in anything other than the number of nights and that would be discussed in view of the new calculation methodology of how the nights count, since now and the children are included in the number of nights they weren't once. That's why we don't need these false hopes for me, let the truth be told, even though we hear it is true. But I'm still being justified for defeat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51608	Next replica, dear colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51609	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Boric, you have well quoted what has been said about what the objectives of the budget are, what is to be achieved but it has all ended up according to that people's words and denied because this report for the first six months clearly... that one was spoken, and the other happened. But I want to tell you something else. So does not Boric seem to you at the time for that pompously announced clean start when it was finally completed and when the results were known that then the Government proposed budget rebalancing and that in that rebalancing budget it corrected all these anomalies, skeletons, which is not all about the clean start. That was the most normal thing. And then we shouldn't argue anymore in this House about what's left to whom, so the budget would clearly show that, from this clean start, so many hundreds of millions or so of billions of bills have to be paid from some past times. However, after that clean start there was nothing done and now I am asking you one question, is it possible that someone needlessly ordered that clean start and spent several million kunas of taxpayers needlessly because this clean start does not serve anyone? And if this budget report for the first six months isn't a alarm bell, then I just don't know what it's supposed to be. Because if someone's not called for an alert that the deficit for 9 months is 13.5 billion and planned at the annual level of 10 billion, and simply by the end of the year nothing can happen, however, the biggest tragedy is that nothing will happen in 2014, and that is a clear indicator of the government's policy. So colleagues from the ruling coalition can foam as much as they want and complain to us, but they've forgotten that they've been in power for two years and that there's a third year coming that's even more devastating than this one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51610	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51611	Thank you very much. A fellow Shuker, that's why I read those statements, but also what was written in the presentations because for me, that's the direction. That's the goal we're looking for. That's why I said if I go from Senj to Rijeka and I end up in Zagreb it's the wrong way and we warn them that they're guilty because they can't write that for the fiscal stabilisation of the state, it's important to slow down the growth of public debt in GDP, and then that public debt grows to us 40 billion kuna in two years, then it's unserious and the results are seen. Dissatisfaction at all levels, all social groups. I recently read on the portal took a 150m-euro loan with the World Bank so that they could withdraw money from the European Union. The HDZ is in charge again, apparently, as explained... That's for next year's announcement. We will take that and that interest to be ready to take the grant money from the European Union funds. I don't understand it, it's incomprehensible to me. It may be a policy mistake not to know how to explain it to a Croatian citizen, but I don't understand it. I don't understand 200 million kunas for consultants to tell us. 50 million to monetize the highways. What they have so smart to say for 50 million kunas, they'll give us 100 million euros for every year of concession if we give it to 30 years. That's awfully smart advice. Of course they will advise for their own benefit not for the benefit of the citizens, certainly not these, but I don't even know which future governments.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51612	The next replica honours Martin Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51613	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague, Boric, in your presentation, and I think several colleagues mentioned before how savings in Croatia are growing this year. Well, it's actually a happy environment for the state budget that we're discussing today, because all these problems that are being seen in the budget, a deficit that will therefore not be able to remain even roughly at the level that is planned. He's gonna have to finance himself with the job. We also saw and voiced that the foreign debt would not exist, because this very loss of credibility stemmed from the gaps between the planned and the achieved fiscal policy resulted in the inability to express the patching of this hole abroad. The domestic market remains. And it is fortunate, therefore, that Croatian citizens were saving so that the Croatian banks had the latest available data in the summer between 5 and 6 billion kunas of free liquidity and free financial resources which will now be able to lend to the state budget for the recovery of these so-called so-called funds. the hole and cover of these differences between planned and achieved, i.e. covering in fact the results of economic policy. And so will the savings of Croatian citizens. And then unfortunately from this state of the budget will result in a new cycle of negative effects by an economy called expropriation because if anyone is able to borrow from Croatian businesses, they will not have what, because that money will be borrowed by the state. Unfortunately, that cycle is, unfortunately, so spinning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51614	The replica corresponds to Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51615	That's right, colleague Dalic. Because we talked a lot today about this borrowing, and we heard it on our right, said a colleague that it's proof that people are still wealthy, they can, so they put something aside or savings. I come from a tourist resort and there has always been a custom for us regardless of the new laws on construction, legalization, etc. that it's always been built. It was always built because after each season it was possible. We don't have much less tourists or less than we used to, but now nobody's building anything. You know where the money is? The money's in the banks. Why is he in the banks? Because people are afraid, they're afraid because they're either blocked for something or they're insecure in the way that this government is taking, and they don't know where they're going to end up. Some have long been fluent in their pay, so they have raised their loans so that they can pay back their loans and survive. Those salaries were reduced, the obligations remained, the people found themselves in trouble. These stresses people are experiencing today are not known to us, unfortunately. A lot of people get sick. We're not familiar with these levels of stress. If you'd earned your salary, you'd have gone for it, at the FINA they'd tell you you didn't have it, and you'd have to buy the bread that day. It's a life problem. Does that solve this budget? Well, I think so, because it's so much fresh and we see by the number of blocked 272000 and 20 billion that will be hard to charge in 3.4 years. So how's some gonna work all that time? These are now the innovative abilities of every Croat to survive with all this press in future time. He'll have to manage. And what did the state do to help him with that? Nothing. His debt will still be there. But that's why these friends, these friends, Ten million can just say when. [[Intruder Stazic: Time!]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51616	Next replica Tomislav Klaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51617	Here's Mr. Boric, you asked if these were the expected results. I believe not, because the government announced that it had a plan, that it had a program, you quoted in your speech and the words of the prime minister who were very optimistic. However, the results are what they are. Is the real question that you should have asked if even worse results can be expected next year? Why? Because there are no investments, because this can happen when you have already mentioned Gorski Kotar, going to Canada to our young people and what all the media are offering. What will happen to the Law of the Mountain and Mountain Area, with the islands? There's no investment. They're the only ones who can fill the budget. New investment, new construction, new jobs, introduction of taxes, introduction of order is good, nice but as a one-time solution. And that's why in the replica I mention it, whether these were expected results we have to say they are. And is this the way you are currently doing whether even worse results can be expected, unfortunately, next year. Now that's the real question for me to hear the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51618	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51619	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Klaric, I don't think anyone expected this no matter what you tell me in this arena here. That this is yet a kind of failure of the current authority that cannot be reconciled with some of its optimistic announcements, because it simply does not go. Why isn't he going? Well, I don't know, here's if the minister says Croatia can agree to any interest. Each interest is acceptable for Croatia, but it carries new expenditures and budget minuses so it helps be 6, 7, 10, 11% said. That director if you were watching our little clinic, she said, she always had a solution and she'd say there's no economic bill. And we've been told he has all along, but it's always someone else's fault. The Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas disappears, the Law on PPDS disappears. You'll be left with a new Regional Development and Indexation Act. Fortunately, the Island Law will remain with its provisions that greatly changed life on the islands. And that's nice to meet you. But when I see this historicly lowest amount in the Ministry of Regional Development that once had 2 billion and 800 million so today they convince me that with 800 million I can do more than someone with 2 billion and 800 then they're the figures that can pass in the media space, but life deprives us. 500 local self-government with 2 projects is 1000 projects a day happening, Croatia and the building is growing. Whoever doesn't understand it, keep telling these stories. But let's give that local self-government two projects. Let's not keep them in suspense because the funds won't just give up money like that. We are unprepared, see how the items for the documentation for the withdrawal of money from European funds are achieved, 23%. Look.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51620	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51621	Thank you. I agree with most of your debate, although I must admit it in one part when you began to actually talk about the gravity of the economic crisis in which the state is to relativise the issue of that state and the need and purpose of its creation. I think that indeed, along with many people in this country who are usually more often on the left hand side of the spectrum somewhat surprising and unexpected that man and on your part of the spectrum would encounter someone who relativises the need and purpose of the Croatian state's survival. And in particular, I don't think these are the messages we should be sending, regardless of the gravity of the economic crisis. Because then later you said the crisis was both like this and like that and I think people have to stay alive. I think whatever the crisis is, there's no need for us to send messages where we're wondering if we need a state at all and if we needed that state at all. Well, of course we needed it and of course we did, so if it isn't today, it'll be better, different for Croatian citizens. But I don't think we should fall into the trap of even asking questions about the point of the Croatian state as it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51622	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51623	Thank you very much. I did not, in that sense, relativize the existence of this country because I immediately said that we have lived and had harder moments than those now that we are discussing today, so I listed both a couple and a odd one, and we wanted all the same cookies, from the fruit there were bananas etc., etc. But let us not even underestimate the Croatian man who today reaches into his thoughts for those times that are behind us. And they say we were safer then. Unfortunately, today they are insecure and therefore fear and hence the money is left in savings. Everything there is is worn to the bank or kept in the house. Because people in politics and this economic policy don't believe anymore, they're afraid. And that's why there's no investment. We can pass seven strategic investment laws that we will weigh down on someone and create a shortcut for them to do something that may have bothered him now, but the moment is to clearly set goals that are feasible and attainable. That's why I read what was set for the cause, and where we ended up. If someone says that we will respect, explicitly respect fiscal rules, then they cannot announce changes to that law in order to adapt to inefficient economic policy, in my view. So we're willing to change that rule to fit our budget. I am not for such goals because people will also understand if something is taken to create something, but if you take a loan for HEP of 500 million kuna to pay the state for its profit she wants to withdraw from that company and it is a right then it is an unreasonable and irrational decision that does not benefit this man but goes to his advantage. And here are the basics of borrowing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51624	Thank you. Damir Tomic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51625	Thank you, Vice President. People don't trust the government. I have the impression that you have slept through the last 20 years of this Croatian state. I'll remind you that the former government has allowed some of your colleagues to create several million tax debts. Did you sleep through it? You're talking about survival, we survived this and that couple-in-the-box thing. The pair is a chamomile for the conversion and privatisation that you've spent. Did you sleep through your coworker? You are also talking about the value of Croatia's insurance, you are invited to assess the value of Croatia's insurance. You mean, according to the Mountain model, how did you estimate it? Did you sleep through that too? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51626	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51627	Every government has its own behavior. I'll say to myself that first I'm a man and secondly and a member of a particular party, if you're aiming at some things. I didn't sleep through anything. I was at the service of this country when she needed me and did everything she needed from me to hear here today on your part that we were criminals. Yeah, that's a fact. But if someone ends up in prison because they chose a weak form, be careful what I say, one vice president of the government and we hear today that someone else has chosen the same weak form but isn't inside, then the question is where is the border of justice in this country. And here's the wrong form, did we hear that today? Someone paid someone. Well, they paid, too, but for some, it's not worth it. And as for conversion and privatisation I recently spoke here, you weren't present, 250 owners, the largest stockholders in the Republic of Croatia the vast majority, almost 90% are people who are either impartial or very left-minded, close to your party. And those media scams that you're trying to place with spins that only some of them are always guilty because you can't deal with some situations, it's short of breath. This power will pass as any who have passed so far. People are waiting for you at the table, a note, and they'll say what you think. You can make it as beautiful as you want but you'll go twice on the same story hard. Believe me, Croatian citizens are very smart.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51628	We're continuing the debate. A colleague, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51629	Thank you. Well, here's the Republic of Croatia is one of the few countries in Europe that has now entered the fifth year of recession. So the recession has been going on for almost five years, the recession in Croatia has lasted longer than the 2nd World War in Europe. Such a long-term recession where the cumulative decline of domestic GDP is almost 15% certain to have exhausted Croatian citizens, has exhausted Croatian society, has exhausted Croatian farmers, pensioners, workers. Our little children have been growing up for five years in a recession society. The child who was born five years ago, now five years old, he doesn't know about the state of improvement, about the country of progress, it was born and raised in the country of crisis in these five years. And in a country that doesn't find the answer at all, there's no answer to how to get out of the social and economic crisis that it is in, is it now not just a matter of economic crisis, it's actually breaking down on people and throughout society. Now when it comes to this concrete report on the implementation of the budget, I think it's visible and that's what the predecessors have already said that simply that fiscal discipline fails, that the revenue made is less than planned, the expenditure incurred is greater than plotted, the borrowing is faster than planned. So here's what the report says is that we're in charge of 21.6 billion kuna in the first 6 months, which is 73% planned for the whole year, and the year-to-year borrowing is increasing. But what is interesting from this six-month report in relation to the implementation of the budget in the past year is that it is noted that the executive authorities, a whole series of ministers, ministries, people who run agencies and institutions, public companies have been so little dissipated and that fiscal discipline has clearly been omitted in all of the many ministries and in many segments, and that while 2012 in a number of ministries, the frameworks set out in the 2013 report were already seen as being present in the whole number of users of the state budget. This is no longer one or two as it was in 2012 but the majority of users have seen budget breakthroughs on the spending side, which says that neither the government is able to keep the Prime Ministers or those who run public companies under enough supervision. The Ministry of Health 2 billion kuna, meaning 64% of the expenditure realised in the first 6 months, the Ministry of Agriculture 500 million more. But the budgets went through and the payroll was spent 57% in the first six months. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, the Ministry of Labour, the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, are all those ministries that have breached more than 50% of the expenditure planned in the budget. It is also part of the items described in the budget as well as in this report that are quite vague and intransparent. For example, the MUP, which spends 32 million kuna on police equipment and shows it as an item but writes at 3239 other services 110 million kuna. The 110 million kuna is too large to write other services and to be taxed at all, nor is there any explanation of the services involved. Since this whole position, and it's about service expenses, there's 246 million kuna. Of these 246 million kunas, these are now some municipal costs, telephones, etc. And then 110 million kuna other services. What other services? This is therefore a non-transparent reporting on the use of budgetary resources. Croatian Mine Action Centre 106 million kuna for other services and writes 10 million for salaries, 14 for materials and services and 106 million kuna other services. So how can certain items be so large without being a little more detailed about what this is about? And who saves, who spends less? This was the case in the realisation of the 2012 budget. Those who should spend these funds in positions 352 of the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises are positions for subsidies to companies, farmers and craftsmen outside the public sector, where the Ministry of Economy only realised 13.67% of the planned funds in the first 6 months, so 130 and some million from the plan of 1 billion kuna. The Ministry of crafts, small and medium-sized enterprises in the same position, has planned 78 million kuna, reaching 3.9 million kuna, which is 4.9% of the budget. As part of it, Hamg Invest spent his 50% on salaries and expenditures, but at the position of the subsidies, so he had 75.6 million kuna of his activities realised only 11 million kunas they were 14.51%. Well, that's exactly the kind of impulses that should be given to the economy through different programs that are obviously not implemented. The Ministry of Agriculture, which has, spends 60% of its budget on salaries in the first 6 months, or 55% and 55 million kuna, respectively. Which has six agencies. These 6 agencies with a total budget of 300 million kunas, of which it may be necessary and this is the paying agency and these other 5 I think even those who work at the Ministry of Agriculture do not know exactly why these five remaining agencies exist. So when it comes to agencies, even the Ministry of Environmental Protection has an Environment Protection Agency with a budget of 16.5 million kuna. The health ministry absolutely fell out of any control, the health or health minister lost a complete compass, interacted with the people who work in the system, his drug use got kidnapped, his waiting lists extended, the HZZH breached the budget for the first 6 months in 3.5 billion kuna, and with 13.5 billion kuna, that is 65.42% of the realization for the first 6 months of HZZO. The Ministry of Justice, when it comes to the Ministry of Justice, also has an item of some other unremarked expenditure of 36 million kuna, it is a small ministry that spends 34 million kuna on salaries and has everything beautifully shown and then 36 million kunas of some unknown, other expenditures. Courts in the Republic of Croatia. A total of $1.2 billion. Compared to them, therefore, in these six months, the state's attorney's office, therefore, county, municipal and USKOK, about 300 million kuna. The ratio is 4:1 of budgetary expenditure between courts and the state's attorney's office and the USKOK. This poor HORSE this country expects so much from has only 21 million kuna available in the six months. The USKOK spent 2,500 kuna on the training of its employees in 6 months. Unlike the Croatian waters, which were placed at 3 2 1 3 for professional training of their employees spent in the first 6 months 750 thousand kuna. For parallel, the state's attorney's office, all state's attorneys, together with USKOK, spent about 150, 200 thousand kuna on professional training of all workers working in all state's attorneys and in Croatian waters, 750 thousand kuna to perfect workers. I mean disproportionate, insufficient follow-up, insufficient balance actually of that entire system. And in the end, when it comes to deficits, deficits rise, debt rises. I'm not sure how and how we're going to get out of this difficult economic and social crisis that society is in. But what the government should certainly do in the first place is discipline itself because if citizens are trained to be strict, I think it is the least they can expect, that is, to be equally strict and with the same criteria, to be on our own. In doing so, I think of the government and public enterprises first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51630	Now we'll move on to the replica. Domegaj Hajduković.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51631	Thank you, Madam Vice President, so here's a colleague we'll start by correcting the incorrect allegations, we've abolished that institute, but math is not my strong suit, but World War II has lasted 6 years and not 5, so from 1939 to '45. The crisis, yes, in some minds, is still going on. A crisis, whose legacy it is. We can talk about the crisis and I can tell you in my own chronological years that aren't as rich as some colleagues here, I can say that since I remember myself living in a crisis. In some stabilization, in some conversions, some of those, in some kind of a home, in some war, in some of this, in some of that. So, the crisis is on our premises I'm afraid of something that's going on. But this crisis of ours, this crisis of ours is not a global crisis, this crisis of ours is a Croatian crisis caused by Croatian politics in the last 23 years. 21 I'll say if we don't get these last two. Because you can't fix something that lasts for years at such a short time. As far as the budget's income deficits are concerned. So I'd just like to tell you, as far as VAT is concerned, I'm going to repeat myself again, that's the deputy minister and say but they say that repeating is the mother of knowledge, so I'm going to repeat myself. So we've increased the threshold for entering the VAT system from 80 to 230 thousand kuna. That's 30 grand 666 euros. Just comparisons, I'll give you other countries of the region means what their threshold is. In the BiH it is 25 thousand and 600 euros, in Slovenia 25 thousand euros, in Italy 30 thousand euros, in Montenegro 18 thousand euros, in Hungary 17 thousand 875 euros. Well, I believe that we, these entrepreneurs, above all, have small entrepreneurs who have a turnover of less than 230 thousand kuna, helped. Reinvested profit also does not belong to what you have to pay tax. Tax discipline is something we have to implement, there's no way anyone's paying for it anymore... And someone doesn't, no matter how big. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51632	Thank you. The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51633	Thank you. As for, just for a little while, when I went to school, they taught us that World War II was since '41. By '45, it was the time of the South but they didn't count on the attack on Poland and events. So we, so I learned, here I apologize, no, that's not what Poland was counting at the time, I think most people were learning that too. Secondly, as for these allegations of yours, you repeat it many times, and on the one hand, some say that it really takes repetition to remember something, they were sometimes harder to make a 10-fold lie the truth. I'm not sure in the context of these thesiss that you're now stating whether, where would you rather lean upon than what you've stated. Because what you have stated are the measures taken, which have not produced fruit, which have not shown any effects, which have not contributed to the growth of the economy, which have not contributed to GDP growth, which have not contributed to improving the standards of Croatian citizens, which have not contributed to an increase in employment. It is therefore several measures that have not contributed to exiting recession and GDP growth. Each government takes a number of measures, so there is, of course, a number of measures. To repeat the other measures taken, for example, a measure was taken to pay 50 million kuna to the Center of the Bank, a measure was taken to form 101 agencies, a measure was taken to hire, to excavate how many of their own party personnel, a series of measures that were actually harmful to the budget. But in total, whether we're looking at this or at the other side of the balance is below the line, and that's what's actually a problem for this society and its citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51634	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51635	Thank you very much. Comrade Djurovic, you have put the problem in your debate items of other services or other expenditures by the ministries. These items are relatively large in cash, and there is no explanation of what they were spent in and you even mentioned among the first Ministry of the Interior. I believe that in these other services or expenditures it is that the paid officers who intervened during the protest of peasants, during the protest here in Mark's square, and here, it is quite certain that those who pay day and night by keeping bilingual or bi-written inscriptions in the town of Vukovar or throughout Croatia are paid, and then I guess that's what belongs to the Ministry of Internal Affairs under other expenditures because people when they work have to be paid and paid. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51636	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51637	As far as payouts are concerned, they are particularly pronounced, so there is an item for overtime. In most ministries these are really very modest positions, but let's say that when I touched these Croatian waters they were not in Croatian waters, and in Croatian waters a million kunas were paid for overtime in 6 months, more than in most of the ministries of this government. So am I the one who needs to ask who's been working so hard in Croatian waters that he's earned a million kunas of overtime, and nowhere else there's no need for it, not in any ministry, not in any agency, but just in Croatian waters. There's so much pressure that it's unsustainable. And when it comes to the work of the Ministry of Interior and their exceptional engagement in the town of Vukovar, the Vukovars said indeed enough and support for the Croatian Vukovar Defence Staff.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51638	We're continuing the debate. A colleague, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51639	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Deputy. So here is the report on the implementation of the state budget for the first 6 months and following all that is happening in Croatian society and this morning's debate, i.e. all day long, we've been discussing the State budget report for 12 hours, leaving the question of whether the government is really governmental to public finances. Does the Government really manage public finances when here, after 6 months of budget implementation, one such important indicator as the government budget deficit is recorded by the 112 or 115% index compared to the planned one. In my opinion, Mr. Deputy, it was already quite a bell to the alarm that was due because you had the data for the first six months already in July, and I thought it required that the government had come to the Parliament during the summer session with other changes to the state budget, after those we had seemed to me at the end of March or early April and... that you missed it because any now budget rebalance when by the end of the year only two months would not have any effect. So no matter how we change our budget now, whatever the government suggests to help state finances systematically, in 2012, and in 2013, I think it's lost in order to change something very important right now. I believe that you agree with me that nothing more can happen in the last two months than simply that, by the inert of things that have caused this situation for the first six months, will simply continue in the other six months. And I'm afraid, I'm not deluded and I don't want to, and I don't want these black forecasts about the deficit of the state budget at the end of the year to be realized at 15 to 17 billion, I don't know exactly how much, if it were simply a deficit that would record the historical maximum in Croatia, but in any case it wouldn't be a good entrance in the next year and then guidelines for the next and the next annual period would not be able to do much in that part. Therefore, it seems to me that you missed something to do in public finances at the end of June, or early July, so that we could have this one free fall if I could say so in a certain way stop us. And agree with me also, you wrote this in this report, watch out for important ministries that should encourage development, which should establish investments, which should stimulate an economy like the Ministry of Regional Development where at least during our governments we are through this Ministry of Finance but also a number of public purposes, schools, kindergartens, swimming pools, I don't already know what kind of systems, water supply, draining etc., etc., less transport infrastructure projects that I don't speak to the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, that I don't speak to the Ministry of crafts and small entrepreneurship, Ministry of Economy. They also record the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction for the first 6 months of 16% of how much the Ministry of Economy notes, i.e. the Ministry of Trade 10% to 30% of how much the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction notes. So if they had achieved their 50% plan then this deficit would not have been 11 billion and 400,000, millions of kuna, but would have been somewhere around 14,15 billion. But the question arises whether it would be a better situation if this deficit were 15 billion, and if these ministries had implemented their plans and we had thousands of open construction sites on the ground or I don't know that I'm not exaggerating 1,000 new construction sites now, where we'd be hiring maybe tens of thousands of builders and their cooperatives. Either it would be better or a situation like this where we don't have investments on one side, we don't have those ministries and we don't have and we still have a high deficit. So that's one question that, I think, is the trap that this government is coming into. On the one hand, it stops the investment, and when we bring rebalancing, we don't run from public investment, we don't run from road construction, we don't run from highway construction, we don't run from building big infrastructure projects, we don't run from it. Better to be in charge of them and encourage production, encourage construction, encourage all that is added to them than to have one bonacu in a country where there is no investment, where there is no... That's what I said, let alone the tsunami of investment, and where there's one hopelessness, where we lose jobs, where every day less and less employees, more and more unemployed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it's a wrong approach for me, but here's the government's announced measures. We'll wait for the measures to come into this House and see what's going on. For example, the Croatian Roads, the extracurricular funds that we mentioned here today, are almost nothing in this debate is the same after 35% of the execution. Croatian roads I see no reason why Croatian roads and Croatian waters did not even carry out their budget, their planned expenditures. Well, I'm going to give you an example, I'm coming from the island, so I'm really following it. We, i.e. the Croatian roads, have built their own programme that envisioned the construction of roads on islands, so-called islands. The island programme and the total amount is 14 million kuna. It is a 86% reduction compared to 2011 and thus a small and poor island programme of 14 million kuna per year was made for the first 6 months only 12%. I don't think I'm saying that Minister Doncic was, for example, in our Dubrovnik-Neretva County, promising down three routes, three shares in the Peljesac area to summer, and we know what this summer was about the traffic coming to Ploče to build three shares there. Only one in the length of 2 km is realized, the other two are not. Not to say what's going on with these Janjina and Pontiacs, etc. etc. So I'm just saying that I disagree with the closure of investments, that it can reduce the expenditures of the state budget, and then we'll cut the deficit. We need to approach structural reforms. That's what we said this morning, the public sector, not this way. We don't have structural reforms, we've stopped investment, and in order to be able to fill the budget, I've already said that several times through the replica morning we're increasing taxes, we're increasing not only the value added tax, not just excise duties. We have also increased energy prices in Croatia and we have all been through this gathering, this set of measures for Croatian citizens annually took 7 billion kunas more than a year ago or somewhere around 5000 kuna per Croatian household. Therefore, I believe that the government will have to come to the Parliament with rebalancing very soon, but for this year, I think there will be no more time. And in my section, I would refer to the Financial Business Act and pre-curricular settlements. I believe that a very large number of good examples where the government and the Hotel Korčula are, I support what happened at the Hotel Korčula,... etc. Probably in other state-owned companies when it comes to the tourism sector. But I would be interested to know that if the government can provide us with a list of taxpayers the state has written off of tax debts. Just before we heard how the attacks of conversion and privatisation were done because it was done as it was done, and as an argument that what is now happening with pre-fashional settlements is respect for the law. Well, conversion and privatisation were done under some law, which we are calling today. That's why we changed the Constitution. Who says that tomorrow someone may not ask for a similar process to happen with this Financial Business Act and pre-determined settlements. Doesn't mean it's the law, it can be the best, but in its implementation it can be bad. Therefore, don't be fond of my friends to make an argument about doing something because it's legal. So I say there are laws for privatisation and conversion, so there were irregularities and that was a significant number of such irregularities. I'd be interested if we beat the shit out of the pillar of shame... The tax debtors and the tax administration have talked about it many times. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It was, we even called out who's more in debt to the state. Now, why should we now be ashamed to tell who it is and how much tax obligations and debts are written off to the state? So here's how we're going to be transparent. I say there are probably very good examples, and I welcome that, but we are interested in who is everything in this country and how much and what key the debt written down...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51640	Thank you. You've got replicas, so you'll continue. Domagoj Hajdukovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51641	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague in his last part of the law, the Law on Conversion and Privatization. However, law and justice are two different concepts. Whether something right is done is likely. Is it fair we can talk about it? And let's just say, our neighbours are the only ones who make a difference between law and law. So we could talk about it, we could probably have a single session about it. As far as the bankruptcy itself is concerned, the company that went into bankruptcy is adequate, so it's insolvent, it can't serve its obligations. In my opinion, it is important for the believers to assume that these are companies that are healthy and try to make peace in any way. If that's a pretense deal, I say hello. So, I think it's also a way to help that firm that's in bankruptcy if there's a way out of bankruptcy. You mentioned a lot of the Ministry of Transport and Communications, so here's the example I'm going to give you. I can't tell you about the islands I'm not from around here, but I can tell you about the Slavonia from which I came and where there has been a catastrophic little investment in the past. We had a construction of road corridor VC that cost more than highways through Lika, Gorski kotar. So, through a very inhospitable terrain if we're talking about construction. You have announcements from the ministry that will move the meaning of Corridor VC outside the city of Osijek, for example, because you have a situation where an international corridor passes trains that freighters pass through settlements. Kids cross those tracks every day. First of all, the speed with which these trains can traffic is reduced, and then the quality of the transport itself, and then the quality of the railroad, etc. Deniveliti means all the crossings that otherwise lock up the city of Osijek because the railroad cuts off the city of Osijek into two parts. So these are some investments that I see as extremely important for Slavonia, for the Corridor VC, and for Croatia in the perspective of both our neighbour BiH and Luka Ploče. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51642	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51643	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So you didn't replicate anything to me, but you agreed with me, did you? Someone already said this morning that the road to hell could be paved by the best intentions. That's what I said. So at the end of the day, the HDZ Club then voted in favour of the law is financial business and pre-fashion settlement. But the law is often just a fundamental act. After the law, there are also likely to be government regulations, rules which should have allowed it to be implemented and processed in a transparent manner. And we're interested and I'm interested in that very list to see how transparent it really was. Because the evil languages, and in part the media, say that this was the political party party's likeness that what was available to one was not available to others. Now, I don't want to get out of the media here in the Parliament to draw out inscriptions, articles where some companies are mentioned that they're free of huge amounts of liabilities to the state while others aren't. Well, I would, I would be interested if we were already inclined to have both the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration published taxpayers in Croatia why now in the same way and would not have the same approach so that all Croatian citizens and the Croatian public also met with companies legal persons, entrepreneurs whose state has approved these funds through the process of adopting a pre-fashion settlement. I don't mean to, and I don't want to suspect that there was anything wrong with it, but if we've announced the debtors, we'll also announce those who are smaller debtors today because they were lucky because the state wrote them off.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51644	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51645	Thank you very much. As far as regional development is concerned, investments in infrastructure are becoming more or less clear from this budget. However, it concerns the fact that here for two years, let's say the CEB 4 project that was to be completed in 2012 cannot be completed. This year the amount of 15 million kuna was left, the realization of a couple hundred thousand kunas. It was one of the best projects for Croatian islands where with small money, a small loan from me I think 25m euros built over 120 small projects on islands. Now, here I am today reading 150 million euros in loans to prepare the state so that we can take money from European funds by not knowing what interest. Now, what do you even say? The fact is, we don't have any more investments in local self-government because I can't, and the state doesn't want any help. That's a fact. Ask the mayors and mayors who come to this ministry what the results of these meetings are. Come on, kiss the door and join the EU funds if you're up. We've made it clear what's going on with that story. The finance minister thinks one thing and says we're going to be down in this year. The Minister of Regional Development says we'll be in plus. And then what should we, a simple citizen, the mayor, think when two important men, one vice-president for the economy and another minister of finance, speak differently about the same problems. That's why we have what we have. And if Croatian roads were killed in this first rebalancing process, over a billion kunas were taken at the expense of a reduced obvious deficit that was immediately estimated to be so obvious.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51646	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51647	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, my colleague Boris, I listened to last night as I traveled to Zagreb, which will be better said by the deputy minister, it seems to me that Croatia is very likely to withdraw less funds from the EU funds in the first year of the term than we will have to invest in the European budget. I'm not sure that's how it's going to be, but from what I've been listening to, I'm not sure we're going to be able to assume that we're going to withdraw less than we're going to pay our membership fee in the European budget. As for the projects you said about both CEB 4 and EIB 2 and EIB 3, we worked all of these projects aimed at building numerous buildings across Croatia and in the coast or in continental Croatia, and our partner was a unit of local self-government. And all units of local self-government have met all the criteria that both these projects and the Central Bank of the Council of Europe and the European Investment Bank were very demanding and that were also the public companies of municipal companies at the level of units of local self-government, and we realised these projects. You said on the islands there were over 120 projects that were also funded with these same funds. Now that's a little modified. It seems to me that this government, which we have seen slowly every day, has not welcomed the day of entry into the EU, has not been a state administration in this year and a half to be able to make good use of European funds, and these European funds seem to me precisely in this part of the investment that would encourage the building, which would create new jobs precisely in this first and second year of membership, and we have also witnessed this in this report and in all the activities that are now taking place around the Ministry of Regional Development. I expect both the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Regional Development to deny us in this, but from what we can read, the situation is about the same.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51648	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51649	Thank you very much. You spoke about the amount of funds used by the Ministry of Regional Development, however, there are some positions that are far more dangerous for the budget and budget deficit if their execution is seen by the end of the year. So the share of Croatia that we have to invest in the EU budget of a billion 700, the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of Entrepreneurship did not take advantage of practically anything in the first 6 months, should use 2.5 billion by the end of the year. When you look at the recovery of county hospitals, nothing is paid, and a billion kunas are scheduled, you already have over 5.5 billion kuna. So these are funds that didn't practically have... cost in the first six months. If without these funds, then without these payments, the government budget deficit in the first six months was what it was, then you can imagine what would happen in the other six months. But fascinating is the ease with which colleagues on the right like to accuse, like to impose, like to insult people but it is very interesting that you have some things in this budget that are at least questionable. To provide a guarantee for a private company to another private company, the guarantee is charged and no one asks the question how. To give money to a business bank that was found to be in trouble that only a miracle could save, money would fail to anyone. Pre-emption deals, yes, many companies are saved. So a pre-flight settlement at least will be very interesting to look at with some time distance some things because colleagues like to extract events from the context, time and space in which they take place, and a pre-fashion is something that is the most dangerous that may have happened to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51650	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51651	Wasn't it an accident in a trade court made... I say there were good things but there's all kinds of things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51652	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51653	We have prepared many budgets together, although you have prepared the Ministry of State, no one can convince me that such a low percentage of the execution of the Ministry of Defence and small entrepreneurship is not the government's order. It's not an accident because we're going to see it now on the rebalancing, I'm convinced if there's a rebalancing that the Ministry of Economy and the Ministry of crafts will both have a very, very low percentage of execution. I may be wrong, but you know very well that 10% after six months of execution, it's just expenses for staff expenses. I don't even know what that ministry was doing for the first six months, with 10%. Therefore, it is obvious that the state deficit of the state budget would be reduced to as low as possible then everything that could have been banned, closed down investments, perhaps some programmes that were not legal obligations that were planned, and then gave up on them, etc. So I believe that's one of the reasons why the deficit is now 11, and what we at the HDZ Club say is that it's going to be much bigger by the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51654	Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51655	Thank you very much. My colleague Bacic, listening to you, turns out that you and your ministry and other ministries, or your government, have done wonders. Hospitals, schools now mention all roads etc. You also said that the government did not welcome EU entry by alluding probably to EU funds, but I wonder which part of you have been part of, have you participated in the preparation of all these projects when we now see that structural funds are in order that we do not have enough projects. You also mentioned that government measures relating to the economy are very bad almost catastrophic, i.e. the wrong measures in terms of being taken to Croatian citizens, you mentioned five thousand kuna per household or about 7 billion kuna. However, I must tell my colleague Bacic that this did not go into consumption but was a good injection to the economy. So there were certainly a number of measures that show this when you look at it, and the change in tax policy in terms of reinvestment of profit tax, and then there was going to be an increase in capital base which is a key moment, there were injections that were given, so it didn't go into consumption. That's how competition was defended. This morning we were saying, I repeat, they were dealing with obligations that had to be settled in health care, which are the legal obligations that you finally made. So it doesn't make any sense to attack this much, so until yesterday, you've been leading fiscal or monetary policy, so we don't have anything to do with these attacks, whether you've done it anymore or not. You have to understand that this government did do a lot for the economy that way I said how this didn't go into consumption, but it went for economic recovery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51656	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51657	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues Šimac-Bonačić in 2011 in macroeconomic indicators at a time when the crisis was not smaller, although in the meantime, many countries in Europe have started to emerge from the crisis, which is not unfortunately the case with Croatia. You are in 2012... a country that has not fallen in terms of economic activity as far as GDP is concerned. We had two quarters positive for each other. We had a much smaller number of employees on today, a much fewer unemployed number of employees. And few of the indicators at that time that were destroyed today, the policy of this government was destroyed. And that's why we're neither happy nor evil. And what we're criticizing, we're not criticizing because that's why we're enjoying ourselves, but we want to help the government do something because it's high time to do something. I don't want to, we're coming from the same county because you all know what's going on in that county, but you know everything's down there. That the investments are almost completely stalled. Both in yours and my Dubrovnik. You know that we worked at the airport, that we also worked on the seaport, that we did numerous investments both by Korčula and by Pelješac and by Mljet and Lastovo, etc., now it all cares. You don't need to, you shouldn't be special about it, you don't need to analyze it at every turn, and you're aware of it. So, I don't want to say anything down there that the government has to run what it announced, it has to go into structural reforms, it has to do something because this way I don't see where Croatia will end up going. How is it, at this point, that these materials we read can be seen? Unless there's something we don't know, then maybe we're living in error, but I don't think I'm living in error.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51658	And Mladen Marelić's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51659	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I can see from my colleague Bačić that you also touched the pre-fashion settlements, I think that according to the discussion of counterpart Suker just before, Matušić that HDZ has not yet and has no position on it. They're certainly against a pre-war settlement according to their discussions. You had to say in our county where both companies were rescheduled. And where the HDZ is in power of both, so it didn't go to someone's no-one's. About that. The second thing, we remember that Croatian roads over the past year have given the county roads an urgent investment to work. We know that too, colleague Bačić, you told the Peljesto road that one of the shares was working on it. Yeah, maybe one of the shares was working, but since 2003, there's been nothing going on on that road for 60km. In 2003, she was rehabilitated, and now she's starting to resuscitate. Unfortunately, there was so much activity from our mayor that she didn't even know it was working. As for the other roads on Peljesac, I think we could have done the same if it wasn't for stubbornness and we were unique that the access roads were going as tomorrow we all expect the future sand bridge that had the permits, we could have done them without being stubborn, so the access roads could have gone because they were ready to start. And the saddest thing is, according to the decision, and these governments, we have projects that have also been adopted in our area, they haven't started working yet. The kuna has not yet been spent, competitions have not been opened, and some have opened the competition long ago, have not yet been put into work. It is sad, and as surely as in other places, there is a very small coefficient on the feasibility of these jobs. Unfortunately... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51660	The answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51661	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I would like to know whether or not they are selective about the government's approach to settlement of pre-fashion settlements. And that's what we're asking to publish a list and nothing more and nothing less. Therefore, the fact that some unit of local self-government, which is some company or entrepreneur from a single unit of local self-government, is the least important. We're talking about the owner of the company whose assets are forgiven. As for 400 million kunas of Croatian roads you mentioned earlier. You see, I've said it many times before. Croatian roads had 400 million kunas, i.e. they owed 400 million kuna to pass on the funds to the county administrations in Croatia, which the county administrations invested on other people's property. And for a wonderful miracle of that same Croatian road in that year did not have the means and it took twice as much to invest on their property and it was then a Peljesic bridge. So they had no Croatian road money for the dynamics of financing the Pelje Bridge in that year 200 million kunas to build on their property a Pelje Bridge because it is the property of Croatian roads. And they had the opportunity to charge themselves for 400 million kuna and forward it to the county road administrations. And as for Mr. Mayor, who you mentioned earlier, who you said you didn't know was being built or redecorated,... Prizren Valley on Peljesac. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Your Prime Minister, here from this pay phone, called him to do damage to the Pelje Bridge and to resolve the construction of the Pelje Bridge with his letter to Barroso. And you see here I have a letter from Brussels that, whose consortium of consultants for the Peles Bridge thanks for everything that has been done, at an organization of a gathering you haven't been to but there was a ministry and there was a government and they were all participants and interested...... Well, then Brussels just thanked the mayor for that contribution. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51662	We're continuing the debate. Comrade Boro Grubisic. ... Don't yell from the bench. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51663	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, a few colleagues and fellow MPs. What do you say after 10 hours of discussion? Well, I'm going to use a number of metaphors and paraphrases or say on youtube what to say, who to send a message here and today all day long as one folk proverb says "every cigar of his horse praises" and then here is the competition between these two sides who's been doing it better, who's been doing it better and who's taking more credits and in debt to the Republic of Croatia over the past 20 years. I have already said about the fact that both the real champions of the credit and the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia and I can't wait and I don't think I'm going to welcome them in view of the life of the day when we're going to count in the budget of the Republic of Croatia with a surplus, not a deficit. Maybe my grandkids won't see it coming either, so it's sad. Namely, both these grandchildren and your grandchildren are already in charge of all these deficits and alive, as counterpart Djurovic said, with the knowledge and knowledge of their parents above all to grow up in such an atmosphere in which the Croatian citizen is in charge and overindebted. As this one says on Youtube, what to say, to whom to send a message, to those who see and don't hear or to those who hear and don't see. And in fact, that's the living truth. If we take a statement from Mr. Minister, Mr. Lalovec and his colleague, Mr. Linic, the other day at one desperate moment when the emperor said he was naked, and then we take back that second statement by Prime Minister Milanovic who said but about something else that I would say this report on the implementation of the budget for the first 6 months of 2013, the good news for pessimists. Yes, it really is, this is great news for people who think pessimistically because based on this data, and there's nothing to think optimistically about. A colleague Đurovic is a small part of what is really disproportionate and what is a little strange in the budget. I say a little weird, although everything smells like something else and clearly we have a lot of right to think about what it's really about, and to question what the money's spent on and when it's, for example. In Croatian waters small hands put 100,000 euros to perfecting can be spent. Or there is so much pressure from spending on professional training and overtime from a million kunas that I remember my colleague Đurović, that indeed in these Croatian waters the valves break out and shoot everywhere. The absurd in this report, it says in the report, I don't know where the report is now, is not a report when the Croatian report is, therefore, disproportionate in the items of consumption. disproportionate to the consumption items among individual users, ministries or these non-profit users. So on those other services or expenditures by individual ministries there are huge differences. Where did that come from, how come? Is this a transparent demonstration of budget implementation? It's not. Because I really want to know how the other expenses or services went to 110 million kuna. What it is is 110 million, in which 110 million kuna was spent or broken. This government has tried and I believe it comes across the approval of citizens, make one financial discipline, tax discipline, bring in all those who haven't paid taxes, and those workers in the gray economy to bring them in, let me say one tax and financial discipline. But as Maric said, tax discipline and tax policy must be both fair and permanent and not daily, here it has now been lowered from 23% to 10% for tourism and hospitality, now a balloon is released in the paper that will be 13%. Well, you can't change the tax rate by individual segments every three months. It's really some swimming tax rate, so it can be called freely. We put a fiscal cash register on the market, and what happened? A fellow Lalovac, asked me by a paprika manufacturer from... how is it that one who has 100 square feet of yard has the right to sell three wagons of peppers, because it has a green card, got a green card. There are three carts of peppers in the 100 square squares of the yard, and he's pathetic enough to make a car of peppers with 20 acres and you can't do anything to him. Where's your inspection? You can control his cash register, but he sells tons and wagons of peppers and watermelons and everything else. Why don't you check in his backyard how much he's got planted peppers, which inspection goes,...inspections or your ministry or from the agriculture ministry. Whatever you want. Check out manufacturers like that. So you've taken one step, it's important to issue an account to the party, and that's all, and how did it get so much pepper, watermelon, etc. You don't care, and that's not good. This destroys our agriculture, and it is only one of the measures that destroys our agriculture, measures that are not welcome in agriculture. So when it comes to agriculture, then we see that the Ministry of Agriculture has already met the expenditure plan for this year with 61%, so it spent 61% of the projected 4.5 billion. And we know well how it is done in the Ministry of Agriculture, how it is employed, how many the six agencies of the ministry count and just the ministry how many employees. Do you know the number of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Denmark or Slovenia or Bosnia and Herzegovina that is closer to us here? Twice as many as employees at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs of the Republic of Croatia. Do you know how busy SDPs and HNS personnel are in public institutions in the Republic of Croatia at this time? Do you know what they do at the Centre for Social Care Slavonski Brod? They control employees, long-term employees and report to the committee. That's what they do and they take the paycheck and they don't ask to go out. The time has come for intellectuals today who have a permanent job as a doctor to think about leaving Croatia, not only unemployed, which is a request from Mr. Minig, president of the Croatian Medical Chamber, 100 requests from doctors to go outside. Do you know that? And every day new applications come, requests however you want. It's not a good situation. And he said good Linic the Emperor is naked. But I don't criticise either Djurovic, nor anyone just to criticize. We're trying to point out, trying to say something. You didn't listen to us. And we had the amendments for the new year, before the new year. None of them are adopted. You act exactly like the government, completely arrogant and completely confident, self-sufficient, self-sufficient, and it's a characteristic of your government. They'll go to Vukovar because 20,000 Croats are going to Vukovar, so I'll go as well. Well, don't even go, dear brother. You don't have to go 20,000, and nobody wants it. So, the HDSSB really is, when we look at the five-year plan, it's not just World War II, it's also the Homeland War, Mr. Hajdukovic or h or without a, I don't know, and Hajdukovic. So, since the clean start, even before the clean start of 5 years, Croatia has been in recession, 5 years falling GDP, 5 years increasing the number of unemployed here and there with individual variations. When he was a census, they hired 30,000, so Mrs. Kosor presented it as an increase in employment for that month and a half. So the real sector falls first of all. That's the problem. No newly created excess value. That's what makes spending clear, because it's less purchasing power. We're lying about the level of inflation, and we all know as well as you do when you go to the store what inflation is. Well, I don't need to be told that 2.7% when she's ten percent. You can see that. I don't need statistics and math. You know that yourself when you go to any chain, to any department store, so you see how much money you spend, and every time it's more and more for the same spectrum, for the same amount of spectrum.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51664	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51665	The other day on one of these TVs in the Journal of Commercial Television in the Reporter's Journal of the Management of HAMAG Invest, about the management that and how Iphoni, the three-member management, members bought Iphone, how to eat in Mexican restaurants. So, according to the attached accounts, you eat in Mexican restaurants, how often you eat in Chinese restaurants. All according to the attached accounts. And a statement by one of the members of the management of HAMAG invests on how each account would be in function of work. It says it's done all the time, it's done all the time, every account, every dinner, everything's in function, nothing's questionable. But then I see in the report for the first six months that the realisation of HAMAG Invest is at the level of 11 million kuna and 14.5%, respectively. And what's the lesson? Does the administration bear sanctions, HAMAG Investa? Whether the resolution minister is carrying out sanctions and whether we are discussing this report in order to transfer political phrases or to come to some conclusion in some debate on what needs to be done or changed in the functioning of the state administration of the budget users for another 6 months. When it comes to the fiscalization you mentioned the other day, I'm driving by bus and the gentleman who drives the bus is putting up suitcases and has a mobile fiscal register. For 7 kuna mobile fiscal register, optical reader, each suitcase lasts for a few minutes. And it was still durable. That takes half an hour. But when the students came to the line, so when he said and now the students for the kuna, so for each one again for the kuna again for a few minutes, then it really seemed bizarre.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51666	Thank you. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51667	Yes, my colleague Đurović and I were watching a statement by the lady from HAMAG investment, from the Management of HAMAG Invest, who very angryly explained the consumption of Chinese and Mexican restaurants, tortillas and I don't know why everything didn't eat grasshoppers and I don't know crickets. And without any shame and shame, it explained that it was all in favour of the general Croatian good. Let him resign, for such an explanation is both shameful and sad. And when he first gets here, he'll hear us well, when Hamag has his report. And that with seven kunas and a Titanic sinks for seven kunas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51668	Domagoj Hajdukovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51669	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's a colleague of yours speaking left, right, and you sitting in the center of the assembly are exculpated. Well, I don't think so. Local self-government units contribute to the indifference and non-transparent spending of public funds as much as the state. So now I'm going to mention an example of Osijek-Baranja County. Osijek-Baranja County spends thousands of kuna on pills and mobiles in capital investments, and it says it is for improving maternity courses at Nasha hospital. So I'm asking you how tablets and smartphones help these sisters to keep births more quality courses. Later we found out it wasn't like that, but if it was a clamper then at county administration. So let's say Cesting d.o.o. In which county doesn't have a majority share, it's true but there's 40 and some percent spending I'll lie to you now I don't know the exact amount. But if memory doesn't cheat on me about $4 million on representation and gifts. And then he gets angry when the council members ask him, so the president of the administration, so what did you people spend that money on, which is a member of the board of directors coming out of the order of the rulings, so the report in which it was mentioned? So I'm going to tell you the pancakes machines that are purchased for 49,000 kunas, two of which have been obtained, there's been no combined discussion, no procurement contests. So, I'm asking you what kind of pancakes they have to be when I found similar machines on Snooker for a lot less money. And finally, let me ask you how many HDSSB personnel have been employed by the county institutions in Osijek-Baranja County? All we want is the Environmental Protection Agency where you have some HDSSB speakers sitting and similar, some HSP Matkovics who are probably chewed up in all political options but who support the HDSSB in the County Assembly. So much responsibility, and do not draw a thorn out of your brother’s eye until you see a log in your own eye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51670	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51671	Thank you very much. Hallelujah! You're a colleague of Hajdukovic's is lost in both time and space. You do not know that you are here in the Croatian Parliament, not in the building of the County Assembly, so Osijek-Baranja County in Osijek. Ask these questions either in the City Council or Mayor Vrkic, who knows who he has taken care of and placed on the address of his friends Djapic, who are in the coalition together with HDZ, so the three-way coalition, yes, the three-way pact you have there in Osijek, is that why you place everything that crawls from HDZ, SDP and some of the Djapics don't make parties, do I not know what kind of party it is and you take care of them there so ask yourself how many of them you have already put in? And so does Vrkic because he says he does not manage Osijek, but Djapic manages Osijek, right? And as far as local self-government is concerned, she's the only one and you can see this 11.5 billion-dollar dubiosis as much as the budget is in the dubiosis. Local self-government and regional self-government in the Republic of Croatia is in a plus for 145 million kuna. Read better, get a little information, don't talk nonsense.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51672	And at the end of Branka Juričev-Martinchev. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51673	Thank you, well-respected vice president, dear deputy and assistant minister, colleague and colleague. There is almost no topic that has not been touched after several hours of debate on this half-yearly report, but as well as on the budget, this can be talked about for hours and days, so I must show my disappointment and indignation to certain items. In fact, the government budget deficit in the first six months is 11.4 billion kuna. We see that from day to day that deficit is growing. That this government wants to reduce the deficit we can believe, but the fact is that it doesn't work, which means it's doing it wrong. The deficit can be reduced either by reducing expenditures or increasing or I would say increasing revenues. As for the spending party, they have been struggling for days with how to reduce expenditures on health care workers, education, those you would say are already well underpaid. The incomes also sought to increase by increasing VAT, which went to the heart of our citizens. We haven't seen the success that was expected since the VAT increase. Certainly, the only quality would be to increase the revenue side by new investments, quality investments, job creation, development of small and medium-sized enterprises, growth in economic activity. The colleagues had already spoken and mentioned the figures that the economy ministry of the projected 1.8 billion kuna had implemented everything while the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts of 700 million only 70 million kuna. And as is said here are the amounts that are foreseen, which have been spent for both personal income and for material costs and costs of electricity, water, telephones, representations and the like. Even more saddens the fact that we're going to look at the linings. So at the Ministry of Economy we have an item of subsidies to companies, agriculture and crafts. Of the 1 billion, 139 million were spent and realised. In the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts, we have the same item. So the subsidies are only 4.5%. What can we conclude? That our craftsmen, that our companies have the means to reach their hands but that they do not need such grants or that they are incompetent. Furthermore, one item no one has spoken of is the promotion of the Croatian economy. We're having a lot of fun with this subject, we're full of mouths and headlines in the newspaper about the promotion of the Croatian economy, which I would say only 2 million kunas. In the first six months, I don't know if you noticed, 2.5%, 50,000 kuna. Tell me what we can expect from the Croatian economy when we used and invested 50 thousand kuna for such a promotion, 2.5%? Next, attract investment. A special topic is also very much talked about, and I believe that there are no representatives or members of the government who would not raise both hands to realize this item in 100% amount, and then with the first budget rebalancing, we would single out as much funds as possible because surely then the lack of the state budget would eventually be significantly less than it is now. 5.38% were spent to attract investment. Moving forward, strengthening the business competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises and craftsmen 8.6%. Development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and craftsmanship 4.65%. Development of entrepreneurship infrastructure and business environment 3.74%. Although these figures speak enough about investing the government in the economy, the crafts and entrepreneurship of Minister Linic has the courage to call entrepreneurs, making them more responsible for the crisis. I wonder in the end who else might want to be an entrepreneur in the Republic of Croatia? Who is willing to invest and create new jobs, and we know without such investments there is no economic recovery, there is no significant increase in income and a reduction in the lack of state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51674	Thank you. The replica of Ada Damian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51675	Dear Vice President. My fellow Minister, I hope the assistant minister has listened well to this recipe you have now given him, a recipe ideal for solving this crisis. Reduce expenditure, increase revenues very easily and easily said. However, all that is being done is that part of the recovery of debts and those claims that have just arrived. So these loans that are now being raised don't even make those interest returns to those loans that you've raised. So an ideal recipe but it's going to be a little harder to realize, so all these government moves are in that direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51676	The answer to Branko Juričev-Martinchev's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51677	You obviously didn't understand me. I don't think that spending should be reduced by reducing the incomes of all health and school employees or increasing revenues by increasing VAT. But income needs to be increased in this way by investing in entrepreneurship, craftsmanship and the economy. So when we've already planned a budget of some means and they're insufficient, but anyway let's use them, let's give them to the ones we predicted them for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51678	The final word of Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51679	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here after 10, 11 hours of today's budget debate for 6 months this year, it has been trying to show, on the one hand and on the other, that regardless of the difficult economic situation, it can still come out of this systemic crisis. So this is not something that only happens to Croatia, this kind of debate is being held in the EU parliament and it is not unusual for you to have elevated tones and no one in this direction and does not say that something is negative and that certain suggestions that can be given that if certain things can be corrected, they can be corrected. However, I am sorry that certain measures that the Government of the Republic of Croatia have given to entrepreneurs are so baffled that here is all that we have given a certain incentive that it is a guilty policy that it is one money that has been thrown into the wind, and that let's say a lost portion of the income, I would very much disagree with whether all these measures by the Government that have said that they should relieve the economy and that we have said about the numerous indicators in which the Croatian economy is located that without these measures, I think we would be in an even worse situation today that these measures have not been taken. If it hadn't been for this law that was being discussed here today, and it's directly related to entrepreneurship for their restructuring, that amount and inequitability and non-payment of wages would certainly have been even bigger. The government has been actively involved in resolving and restructureing the economy would certainly be even more difficult to deal with the economic situation, because by no means does one part of the accumulation of these debts and simply the problems are not solved. Here today there have been speeches on the transparency of the Financial Business Act only there is no honourable representative of Mr Bačić but I will tell him when I see him, so all transactions, any pre-departmental settlement is a transparent and complete pre-departure settlement process can be seen on the websites of FINA not only how much the Tax Administration participated in the restructuring of debts but banks and other suppliers. So it's a completely different process, so it's going on at unclosed sessions, etc. means it is very clear and transparent and can be seen for each entity in a way and how well it is restructured both by the state and by other entrepreneurs and banks. And this part as painful as it is to have fewer incomes, we think it's an incentive for the economy and we have the right to ask for an economy that, unfortunately since 2008, some part of the economy has invested in real estate business all the time. It is not something that happened only in Croatia that happened in neighbouring Slovenia, it happened in Spain. Recently, there has been a very good report of what happened with Spain, and unfortunately these exits from the crisis have been so long. You have seen in other countries that it comes out much faster while in those countries where this real estate business has created a very large part of the frozen assets, unfortunately much harder these countries are coming out of the crisis and Croatia is one of those countries where we have had a completely missed private sector investment policy where it has been invested since 2008, in a speculative part of the property. Unfortunately, this is going harder since banks also have stocks over these properties and that part of the recovery of the economy in particular of the construction sector which has completely strayed into one such part of the business effects are unfortunately not short-lived. You can't give them quick measures. I'm saying, you see examples of other countries, the example was Spain where they didn't just invest in real estate business, but they invested in airports where there's no plane landing at all, so the whole part of that model that we've accepted from the West is accepted by our entrepreneurs, and that's one of the main reasons why there's no economic growth that we think can be found through construction companies because they're completely insolvent. And therefore this measure of raising their capital, reducing contributions, discharging certain parafiscal burdens and the only and correct measure to encourage the economy, no matter how much we can in that part and collect that part of income that we are a deficit... 13 billion than if we had 9 billion if it wasn't left in the economy it won't be able to give a long-term effect. You can close the short-term effect in public finances to some intervention measures, however, all these intervention measures also have a repercussion on the economy. We have decided to give the economy all the time, and therefore we ask them to engage more actively in restructuring this private sector, not to do so through the Financial Business Act and pre-banks and all creditors that they are actually involved in restructuring the economy. And I said, no sustainable public finances without a stable economy. This government actually didn't go into strong cuts, but it actually went to that part of the cost, the part that could save but on the other hand to support the economy. And so I would ask that in this context and you look at this part of the budget because all the forces are actually given to actually economic recovery as soon as possible and that we can then talk in a different way. I thank you once again for your debate, and during the month today will probably be in this High House and budget rebalancing and most likely the draft budget for 2014 so we will definitely discuss these topics that are important and important for Croatia still have a lot to talk about in this House by the end of the year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51680	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51681	Now we'd like to go to a statement on the points of the agenda. Well, let's get it straight. Proposal for a Report on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2013 and a proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a half-yearly report. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes in favour, 31 votes against and 1 abstentions were adopted or a half-yearly report was adopted on the implementation of the National Budget of the Republic of Croatia for the first half of 2013. I am voting on the proposal for a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 32 votes against a half-yearly report on the application of fiscal rules for the first half of 2013. In accordance with the provisions of Article 111 of the Treaty on the Functioning I am voting on the budget law: First, the decision to give consent to the half-year report on the implementation of the Croatian Waters Financial Plan for the first half of 2013. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision has been made by a majority of votes, 81 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 28 abstentions. Secondly, I am voting on the decision to give consent to the half-year Report on the implementation of the Croatian Roads Financial Plan for the first half of 2013. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the proposed decision was made by majority of votes, 82 votes to 33 against and 1 abstention. Third, I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Environment Fund's financial plan and energy efficiency for the first half of 2013. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I note that the proposed decision was made by a majority of 83 votes in favour and 34 votes against. 4. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to the half-yearly report on the implementation of the State Agency's financial plan for the insurance of savings deposits and the resolution of banks for the first half of 2013. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'd like your results, please. I find that it was proposed by the majority of votes 83 votes in favour and 34 votes against. 5. I am voting in favour of the decision to give consent to a half-yearly report on the implementation of the Financial Plan of the State Property Management Agency for the period from 1 to 6 May 2013. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'd like your results, please. I note that the proposed decision was made by a majority of 83 votes in favour and 33 votes against. Let's go to the next one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51682	We will now discuss: - Proposal for a Law on road traffic inspection and roads, first reading, P.Z. No. 478; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you have received the proposal in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this Act, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the first reading of the Law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. And you received reports at the session. Introducing the bill, Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic will explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51683	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. A few words about this law. As the Republic of Croatia became a member of the European Union on 1 July 2013, thus taking on a number of legislation in the field of road and road transport, the need for the harmonisation of the laws of inspection and road traffic and roads with a number of applicable rules and laws in the field of road and road transport has already been demonstrated which have been brought into line with the regulations of the European Union. The normative basis of the applicable system in the field of road transport and roads constitutes the Road Law, Road Transport Act, Road Transport Act, Working Time and Mandatory Holidays of Mobile Workers and Road Traffic Recording Devices, Road Safety Act, Road Transport Act, Dangerous Substance Transport Act. Subject harmonisation aims to ensure that the quality and efficiency of inspection supervision of the implementation of those laws is as effective as possible. The proposal for a new Law on road traffic inspection and roads would make the work of inspection more effective and transparent. A paper on the structure and organisation of the inspection and the guidance and monitoring of work is necessary in accordance with the laws set out above which have been brought into line with the legal acquis of the European Union. This Act regulates, firstly, the supervision of the implementation of the provisions of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions in the field of public, road transport of passengers, public road transport of freight, road safety, transport for own and personal use, transport for dangerous substances, provision of stationary services on bus and freight stations, maintenance of road reconstruction and construction, working hours of mobile workers, control of road transport recording and control facilities for which they are used for the verification, inspection, installation of the examination of tachographs. Secondly, the proposal for a new Law on road and road inspection would establish a precise definition of the powers and rules of conduct of the inspector, then the adoption of an annual work programme, the establishment of special units and mobile inspection teams and international cooperation, i.e. the work areas of the European Union. The papers in the Proposal for a Law on road traffic inspection and roads are a permanent and continuous specialist education of the inspector, then control of the transporter information systems, control of the carrier database and other supervised entities, load control in and on the vehicle, control of the mass of the vehicle with and without load, control of axle load and dimensions of the vehicle with and without load. The paper in the Proposal for a Law on road and road inspection is also an extension of the powers of inspectors in the part of the service of marked vehicles with light and sound equipment, photo recording and sampling and testing requirements of construction materials, establishing the basis for control of performances and notification obligations within the time limit of the applicant, checking the taxi vehicle from the legal person, extending the time limit for disfellowshipping the vehicle from the traffic, the possibility of removing the lack of a oral solution, prescribing the deadlines. It is also a newspaper in the part of carrying out surveillance and decision-making tasks on the authority of the inspector in such a way as to abolish the Board of Appeals whose members are appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the possibility to initiate the administrative dispute with the complaint is prescribed. The adoption of this law will result in the harmonisation and application of the rules in the field of road transport and roads with the provisions of specific laws with the aim of enabling and obtaining the powers to exercise control over the application of these and the effective internal control system, regular supervision and removal of various irregularities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51684	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. The first is on behalf of the SDP Club, a colleague of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51685	Thank you, esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports the adoption of a proposal for a road traffic and road inspection law because we believe that it enables more efficient, transparent and efficient inspection work as well as compliance with the practice of traffic inspection in other Member States of the European Union. Where we note that a newspaper on the structure and organisation of the inspection and the guidance and supervision of the work of the inspection is necessary in accordance with the laws that have taken the obligation to comply with the acquis of the European Union. Since the laws on which the inspection is carried out have been harmonised with the regulations of the European Union, so does this proposal for a road traffic and road inspection law require compliance with the same. This ensures the applicability and compliance of the rules in the field of road transport and roads with the provisions of specific laws, the Law on road transport, the Law on Roadways, the Labour Time Act, the mandatory vacations of mobile workers and road traffic recording devices, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances, the Road Safety Act. In the SDP club, we believe that this legislative proposal is good because it defines and ensures better quality and efficient inspection supervision in the implementation of the provisions of the laws relating to road and road safety. This legislative proposal regulates the rights, duties and powers of inspectors and authorised inspection officers, as well as the tasks other than supervision by inspectors and lists the rights and obligations of inspectors in carrying out inspection controls. What is particularly important is inspections in the performance of controls and conditions where inspectors are authorised to examine business premises, vehicles, equipment, as well as business books, cargo review, programme plans, contracts and other documentation, vehicle mass measurement, road status review, road maintenance works and their safety belt. The precise definition of these powers is very important precisely because of the fact that a series of difficulties inspectors will face in their work, especially in terms of jurisdiction in relation to the different before those specific laws. Therefore, the authority of issuing a temporary ban is defined in the course of inspection and the conditions of temporary exclusion of the vehicle from traffic. What we support especially in the SDP club, given a number of problems that have arisen and which appear on a daily basis, and is directly related to the safety of traffic controllers, because it is possible for an inspector to carry out inspection controls on the use of roads, planning, construction and maintenance of public roads to order actions that can not be carried out in a safe manner, temporary suspension of works if they are contrary to the provisions of the law, the suspension of traffic and other activities. In terms of transparency and the public's work, what we particularly welcome is the prescribed obligation to keep an eye on the inspections carried out and the measures taken under the regulations adopted by the minister responsible for transport. Finally, since this legislative proposal defines clear powers and responsibilities for certain procedures, ensures transparency and simplicity of the procedure, quality and efficient inspection supervision, an effective internal control system and regular supervision, prevention and elimination of various irregularities, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51686	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club, representative of Croatian Labourists Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51687	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The aim of the proposal for this law is to comply with the regulations and laws of the European Union in order to make road and road inspection work more..., more transparent, more efficient. I have been consulting the bill, and many websites have found no major shortcomings in the bill that I could single out. One reason is, certainly, that the bill itself did not receive any evidence or objection from the interested public, which points to the conclusion if there is no greater objection to the new law, but in Article 13, the inspector is authorised to carry out a review of business and other premises. For these business premises I understand, but for these other rooms I don't understand, especially if the business premises are in the family house. Does this mean that the inspector will then conduct surveillance in the kitchen, or toilets or elsewhere? In the jurisdiction of the inspector, the supervision of the implementation of the Road Transport Act, the Labour Time Act, the mandatory holidays of mobile workers and road traffic recording devices, the Law on the Transport of Dangerous Substances, as well as the Road Safety Act. Lately, the public's greatest interest has been focused on increased control of car taxi transport, mainly due to inadequate driver qualifications. The fact is that a taxi driver according to the law must have a driver's license B category and also a completed school for a driver. Since many drivers do not have that high school, they have been left with the possibility of requalification, i.e. to qualify for that activity. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, One taxi transport pointed out that they are faced with a lack of labour since a small number of potential candidates have the appropriate professional equipment, and requalifications cannot be afforded. One of the solutions is work without proper qualifications, which ultimately resuscitates road traffic and roads inspection. My thoughts, although not directly related to the bill, are therefore moving towards facilitating the requalification of non-employees in order to facilitate their finding of a job. The new road traffic inspection law should make it possible to conduct the inspection more efficiently and the major problem remains low education of the carrier because it has no awareness of the need for continued education of employers and workers in the sector. Many irregularities concern the abuse of working time and manipulation of digital tachographs by carriers, which is once again a job for inspectors. In order to raise the level of road safety, I believe increased surveillance is welcome in this direction. The tachograph is a device that records speed, journey, time, rest and driving time. All freight vehicles weighing more than 3.5 tonnes and buses must have analogue tachographs, and from 1 January 2009, all such newly registered vehicles must have digital tachographs. By adopting European regulations, including the Labour Time Act, mandatory mobile workers' holidays and road registration devices, Croatia has accepted the social conditions of road transport. Road traffic inspection and police officers are required on the road and in the premises of the carrier to implement and verify the law and based on the rules adopted. In cooperation with the traffic police, road traffic inspection shall be carried out by an enhanced supervision of a specific liner of students from school to school, which shall be carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Road Transport Act or the Regulation on specific conditions to be met by buses carrying children. According to the Centre for Vehicles of Croatia, the certificate of compliance with the conditions for the transport of school children has 2081 buses. Despite having that certificate, it has been found that certain buses still do not meet all the prescribed conditions for the transport of school children. The result of the inspector's work on the ground is even 133 infringements. Invalid documentation is among the offences in the first place. Drivers do not have a certificate of compliance with the conditions for the bus carrying children, and these buses are excluded from traffic, and children are transported to school by the right buses. 25 non-contractual infringements and lists of passengers, i.e. on the carriage of pupils, shall be recorded, in accordance with the rules for carrying out specific line transport, in the vehicle. In 8 cases, a violation has been found... which is not lawfully permitted, since the specific line of transport of the student may be carried out only on the basis of a signed contract exclusively between the transporter and the carrier. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The biggest risk to child safety is, however, buses where technical malfunctions have been identified, and these buses are regularly excluded from traffic and their registration plates have been temporarily taken away. In practice, we have some negative situations and surveillance. Autotrans d.o.o. Rijeka as a carrier and passengers in the use of transport services and Rijeka Airport on the island of Krk to Rijeka were exposed to considerable discomfort. Autotrans is with Rijeka airport d.o.o. concluded a contract on passenger transport services for the period from March to 31 December of this year. The subject of the contract is the transport of passengers from Rijeka to Rijeka Airport and vice versa since there is no public line transport from the airport to major destinations in the Primorje-Gorski County. For 2013, Rijeka Airport has arranged additional flights with companies across Europe in order to bring as many tourists into the area as possible. Since there is no public liner transport and in efforts to allow tourists to leave and arrive from Rijeka Airport, the bus transport contracted by Autotrans. However, on 3 June, an inspector of the road traffic inspection service carried out inspection on the bus Autotrans in Rijeka Airport, after which he was excluded from the traffic with a reason that it carried out the public road transport of passengers on the route Rijeka – Rijeka Airport. Passengers were disembarked from the bus at the airport ramp, and sent for their own transport to their destinations. The way and procedure of the inspector is by no means in the service of improving tourism. All actions taken by Rijeka Airport in the negotiation of new flights and bringing new tourists into question. Finally, but no less important need to establish a way of inspection services can, in which way inspection services can enforce their own law of a certain authority without damaging the reputation of the Republic of Croatia as a desirable tourist destination for which we all seek. Road traffic and road inspection could do far more when it comes to the recovery and repair of roads in their safety belt. During the abundant snow this winter there was a slide on the road Delnice – A boat on the Buy that left lane fell 70 cm. For half a year, this road has been unsettled. Winter is coming, and we Gorani rightly wonder whether the remaining lane will withstand this winter, or whether the glider will pull the rest of the road, or even the highway water that passes close by, and Delnice and half of the Gorski Kotar will run out of water. The damage that has been caused to the owners of this region so far is high due to the inability to drive more than 20 tonnes. Road Delnice – The boat on the Buy is the closest link of this part of Slovenia to Rijeka and certainly deserves better treatment. And now, in the end, I would only ask the Deputy Minister about highways and speed limits on these highways, i.e. rerouting traffic into one lane, if it is possible to lower toll charges. Because in some neighbouring countries, when the speed of driving on highways is limited, or rerouting to toll lanes are significantly different, significantly less than for driving needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51688	Igor Czech, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51689	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Pleš, you spoke of the powers of Inspector and colleague Žagar in an earlier debate stressed that the work of the inspector would be transparent. Could be. But will the Inspector's election be transparent? In the current law, Article 5 shows that the inspector must have high professional training in the transport, construction, legal or economic professions. However, in this proposal, the law of Article 6(2) states that inspection supervision may also be carried out by other civil servants and ministries under the special authority of the Minister in charge of transport, while meeting the prescribed conditions for carrying out inspection tasks. Who prescribes these terms? If it's prescribed by the minister, could the inspection supervision be conducted by some kind of department reference? Therefore, there is a question of the transparency of the selection of persons who will carry out inspection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51690	The answer to the line, Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51691	Well, I agree with my colleague, of course, that it is also questionable how the selections of road traffic inspectors will be done, because the inspectors are doing the growing amount of work they need to take into account that they are more qualified and highly qualified persons, that they are not doing it by reference to people who are possibly sitting in some offices, and that, accordingly, there should be some inspection, and maybe their school is prepared by someone else rather than road traffic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51692	On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club, counterpart Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51693	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Associates, colleagues and colleagues. So I'm going to say very briefly on behalf of the HNS Club we'll support the conclusion that this law goes into another reading. In fact, it is mainly about harmonising our legislation with EU legislation in this area. Since we have had a very active discussion on the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure where a whole series of suggestions have been given and some issues have been opened I think it will be particularly useful to see the possibilities to improve in fact through this law the work of inspection. What was most highlighted was the implementation itself, i.e. the way in which the actual action on the ground where most colleagues on the board concluded that, in the face of these problems on the ground, in fact, an inspection cannot be ordered very often to carry out some work in the way that it was established by the minutes because after the inspection itself has done its job, it is mainly a matter whose jurisdiction to carry out certain work in this way as the inspection has been ordered. So I guess the biggest problem in this whole inspection story is actually the amount of work she's doing and finally the number of people doing it and then the law enforcement itself. Of course, as far as these changes are concerned, in terms of the improvements introduced in this law, the HNS will support them. What's here as a little suggestion went out of the discussion with my colleagues at the club. Indeed, these amendments may question this inability to file complaints in the proceedings because the body which decides on the complaints is deleted. the Board of Appeal, in accordance with the provisions of the General Administrative Procedure Act. And that is, in line with the amendments to the Administrative Procedure Act, and we assume that there is a greater simplicity in the process and therefore its efficiency in quality. However, we are not really sure whether or not we will achieve the right goal by harmonising a form of legal remedy, regardless of what can be triggered by an administrative dispute. It is likely that there would be a lot more complaints in the process itself, namely that complaints would express a real state of affairs than could be done in the administrative dispute. However, it is another question, but it is suggested that this is a particular problem. Here in the first reading, the HNS will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51694	Thank you. We continue our individual debate. Col. Frano Matušić is not present, so he loses the right to debate on this point. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51695	Proposal for a law on road and road inspection, first reading, P.Z. No. 478. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals from the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law on road and road inspection, 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? There is. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes with 113 votes in favour and 4 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51696	And we will also discuss - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, first reading, P.Z. No. 479. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. The introduction will explain Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic's proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51697	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. In the Republic of Croatia, the area of cableways is governed by the Law on cableways for the transport of persons and implementing rules adopted under that law with which full compliance has been achieved with Directive 2000/9 EC on cableways for the transport of persons and is also notified to the European Commission. It is provided and prescribed that cableways can only be operated on the basis of the approval for the operation of cableways, which, subject to the prescribed conditions, gives the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure which are currently issued for 9 cableways. In Dubrovnik for cable carbs Dubrovnik-Srđ, in Zagreb for cable carbs Uspinjača Zagreb ZET, on Sljemen for cable carousel three-seater Red slope, White wolf and Green wolf, in the Parts for cable carbs Radeševo, Vuknica Pribinić and Vuknica Petehovac, on the Bjelolasica for cable carousel Tintilinić. The primary objective of the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on cableways for the transport of persons is to comply with the provisions of the Law on concessions. The current Law on cableways for the transport of persons requires that concessions acquire the right to build certain types of cableways and to operate cableways that involve the economic use of cableways. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on concessions, concessions may be granted for the economic use of general and other goods, after concessions for public works and concessions for public services. The concession for public services and concessions for public works shall be granted for the right to provide public transport services to persons, i.e. for the construction of cableways for the purpose of providing public transport services. Concessions for the economic use of general and other goods shall be given for the construction and management of cableways for the purpose of performing exclusively commercial activity and without the obligation to provide public service. The public service will be considered to provide public service and construction of buildings for the purpose of providing public service if such services and the realization of these works are provided in a manner and subject to the conditions laid down by the concession provider. In the case of a concession for public works or concessions for public services, the installation of the cableway at the end of the concession contract shall pass into the ownership of the concession provider without compensation. It is established that all issues relating to concessions in the area of wire which are not regulated by law are subject to the provisions of the Law on concessions. The concessions shall be granted by the competent authorities of the local self-government units with the prior consent of the State Office for the Management of State Property, the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Finance, and that the compensation of concessions is the revenue of the budget of the units of local self-government. According to the provisions of the law, the concessions will be given in Dubrovnik for the Dubrovnik-Srđ cable car, in Zagreb for the Zagreb-ZET cable car, on Sljemen for the cable... Desevo, on Bjellolasica for three two-seats and on the 2-seat Platt. The other provisions of the law shall be exempt from the application of... for water skiing and the provisions on the investigating body shall be abolished, and the events shall be carried out by the cable manager without prejudice to the obligation to investigate serious accidents and accidents by the competent authorities of the Republic of Croatia. The law provides for consultation with the public interested parties from 21 February to 15 March 2013 and this has been implemented and the comments have been partially accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51698	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, colleague Josip Boris.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51699	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Associates. The current Law on cableways for the transport of persons shall regulate, among other things, the acquisition of the right to build certain types of cableways and the operation of cableways involving the economic use of them. This law has made us aware of the provisions of Directive 2000/9 of the EU Community on cableways for the transport of persons. The two most important newspapers and the deputy referred to them, in line with EU legislation, is the conduct of a survey of cableway accidents by an independent investigating body, and this proposal abolishes the provision of an investigative body and corrects the idea of a serious accident where a continuation which, under serious accident, was considered a major material damage that could immediately be assessed by the investigating body to at least three million kuna. In accordance with the Law on concessions, concessions for the economic use of general or other goods, public works concessions and public service concessions can be provided in the area of cableways. a number of exemptions from the award of concessions and exemptions from the payment of the concession fee have also been set. The concessions shall be given by the competent authorities of the local self-government units with the prior consent of the State Office for the Management of State Property and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. What is very important benefits from concessions are the budgets of units of local self-government. We've heard a little bit about cableways, what's available and what's known in Croatia we have three lifts and 13 Wolfs, but we still have world Olympic ski champions. However, two provisions in the public debate have raised the most interest and these are provisions concerning the abolition of an independent body, perhaps even with the right of those who are now dealing with cableways and who are working on cableways, and who will be in charge in the case of God forbid any accident. It turns out that in the end, all the investigative judge and police will be dealt with, and that for some minor faults or incidents on the cableway, the driver will be responsible because European legislation says that independent investigative bodies exist only for air, rail and maritime transport. We can agree with that at the club, but I think there should be some remarks as well, given that some rules are in force that regulate exactly that area in order to avoid different interpretations. Secondly, which will certainly cause perhaps the highest public interest is the award of concessions. First of all, those who are the most rewarding, and we heard one, which is a concession for a cable car in Dubrovnik, where the mayor says it is pleased, but the one who built it is dissatisfied. restored after it was destroyed in the Homeland War. And they are rightly afraid if a concession law is applied in this form and such an article is given, indeed what will happen if someone offers under the concessions law to another company a higher price or higher income to local self-government and participated in nothing concerning the actual renovations and cableways they are doing today. I think it was a closer proposal for an amendment submitted by the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. The city of Dubrovnik and could be appreciated because they have committed to offering the most economically favourable price of the concession provider, and what amount for each calendar year cannot be less than 25% of the net price of the total annual ticket sold. If the annual invoice determines that the accepted annual amount of the fee of the selected bidder and represents less than 25% of the net price of the total annual ticket sold, the difference between the accepted annual amount of the fee and the 25 % net price of the total ticket sold will be paid to the concession provider by the next year at the latest by 28 February of the year for the previous calendar year. Indeed, there is a possibility that a company, unimportant, would call it, that it would sell I don't know by the concession law so many and so many thousands of tickets, that it would make so much and so much profit, even though they may have no idea about this cabler and its business, and that the next thing you know, they would be forced to get that concession. Of course, it's good for local self-government to take part from the beginning in all of this, and that's the income of the town of Dubrovnik, but I think it might have been an opportunity to get rid of it in more detail. Because there's also an interest in some other cableways that could be built in the future. First of all, I think of the cableman Makarska-Biokovo and Opatija-Ucka and the Rabac-Labin who are in some kind of announcements that are already being seriously done and accessed so that concessioning would not damage those who have tried to put them into office and then say, someone in a contest because he recorded that job being very profitable as far as I had the chance to find out after three years that job was worth it. The concession wasn't paid because it wasn't possible to betray her. So I welcome this bill of law to get rid of it and that local self-government is benefiting from it, but let's not bring it to absurdity. I don't think that would be an interest in local self-government or state. And that perhaps it was in this part of the bill that this concessionation should have been resolved more closely because the concession law was general and had nowhere to be defined who what and in what way had to be solved. I think this was a reasonable proposal and we at the HDZ Club would be pleased if he were to respect himself. Whether it is or not, I say it depends on the proposal's will. But in all things, we have the Law on Wires, these are changes and additions. I think they're written in favor of development and we need to support them and we're going to do it in this first reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51700	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51701	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister with his associates. We have before us the Law of Wires for the carriage of persons. Croatian Labourists will support the bill. If I counted correctly in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, then I reached the number 6 and 9 of the Wolfs, with my colleague, Boric, the number is somewhat different. However, all together when we look at a smaller ski resort in Italy, Austria or somewhere there are as many cableways and tows as we have throughout Croatia. Sometimes, as we can tell, they were driving some other cableways between them and one of them was in my shares, but unfortunately, it was left with only nice memories and remains of carrying columns. The plan was to build or build Medveja-Učka, Makarska-Biokovo, new cablers on Sljeme, Rabac-Labin on Bellolasica, Omis and perhaps some more. The passing of this law is the first chair and then the cow, because if it were the opposite, then they'd be doing the wire first and they'd be passing the law. As regards the proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Law on Wires for Transport of Persons, I have briefly examined the case of the Dubrovnik Wire for Srđ and I am bringing my observations to you. Namely... The property part of the Luksic group owns Dubrovnik cable. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] After the reconstruction they invested 5m euros in for three years they have been using the Srđ wire without paying the concession because of the lack of adequate regulation. And the work permit was issued on the basis of provisional authorisation. According to the new proposal for a concession law, the competent authorities of the local self-government units shall give prior consent to the State Office for the Management of State Property. The permit also means by the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport, Infrastructure and subsequently from concessions... the budget of the local self-government unit. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The media data suggests that it is about 4 million kunas that the city of Dubrovnik could come from a cable car. It is also important to note that given the large number of tourists visiting Dubrovnik annually, Srdj himself. Mayor Vlahusic has long advocated this law and the law is ahead of us. And the main changes were made precisely because of the harmonisation of the provisions of the Law on Wires for the carriage of persons and the provisions of the Law on concessions. In accordance with European Union legislation, no research on cableway accidents is envisaged by an independent investigating body and provisions in the investigating body and the concept of a serious accident are abolished by law. These are also the most important changes in this and the law, and in this public debate most of all, have led to controversy over these changes. I hope that the cableways in Croatia will start to build and that this law will find its full application. One remark Deputy Minister I think that on two occasions you mentioned Shares-Radesevo, not Delnice but Radesevo is on Platko. Stocks... Thank you very much. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51702	On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, counterpart of Hope Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51703	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Deputy. Here's just a few short observations. It is good that, in spite of what we say, we may encourage some special cases, but it is good that there are special cases in Croatia such as Dubrovnik to pass such a law because the assumption is that in some coming years such as Srđ, Dubrovnik for Srđ, will appear several more places in Croatia, above all, on some of the more attractive tourist destinations mentioned from Makarska to my Kvarner. But what I think is a good thing that we're passing this law is that I hope that we don't just have cableways for such a view let's say tours or visits to some viewer as it is now in our plan in Kvarner or I don't know in River Tribute and this on Srdje. It is that Croatia will start with significant investments in winter sport, i.e. skiing and cableways that will appear in our Platka area where some new cablers will appear in the Sljemen area. I think we have enough recreational skiers and ourselves in Croatia, and those who could possibly come to Croatia to deal with this sport and we have conditions and it is good that we have this law because it allows today-to-morrow and potential investors, these are not cheap investments, these are very expensive investments, that potential investors also eventually come and invest in such infrastructure, primarily for winter sports. This law in some way guarantees the safety of these potential investors to come to Croatia and find their interest in investing in such a business. In this sense, the HNS strongly supports the ministry's intensity and the bill's proposal and will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51704	Thank you. On behalf of the Club, SDP representative colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51705	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Deputy Minister with his associates. Well, here's to us, the Law of Wires for the carriage of persons. In fact, the adoption of the Law on concessions established the disagreement of certain provisions relating to the concession of the Law on cableways for the transport of persons and that is why this procedure has been initiated, and here we have today this proposal. Otherwise, in the area of wire concessions can be given for economic use, for public works and public services. We also see in this proposal that some of the comments are interested, that there was a public debate or that some of the comments were adopted which might have been adopted. It also stressed the exemption from the award of a concession, i.e. the exemption from the payment of concession fees. It is also determined that construction, maintenance, reconstruction of cableways is of interest to the Republic of Croatia and thus the real estate process itself is subject to the rules of expropriation. I would actually refer here to two articles, Article 11 and Article 16. Here is today mentioned here the Srđ cableway between these nine cableways is mentioned by the Srđ cableway which has actually been since 1969, it was the first one built on the Adriatic. We can say it was a symbol of Dubrovnik. But during the war, it was hit by direct blows and destroyed, to be renovated after 2010 and it was said at the opening that it was still the victory of the culture of construction over the culture of destruction. As is known from the media, Exelsa for real estate has actually launched a reconstruction of the cableway, i.e. the upper and lower stations, and in this regard, the company established a building permit for the upper station, as well as a confirmation for the main project for the reconstruction of the lower cable station. Here we heard in the opening statement from the Deputy Minister that there was an approval to work, but concessions did not exist and it was not possible to give because there was no concession law. So this first cable car was actually a panoramic cable car, and we often thought about bringing in some kind of rent, and we were also thinking about an ambience rent before we even talked about these concessions because I think anyone who came in, who was riding that cable car, is actually living in one of Dubrovnik's unrepeated beauty. However, when a colleague earlier said that it was okay for the investor to pay so much, I must say that the arrangement of historical monuments, the entire infrastructure, maintenance and greenery and parks and cleaning streets and squares and preventive fire protection and all that in the city of Dubrovnik is essentially paid by the citizens of Dubrovnik, the city of Dubrovnik pays. Therefore, it is all used by the private investor, or used by the one who, he did restore that cableway but I think it is okay and I support this article that says that the income from the concession goes to the local self-government, i.e. the profits from the cable company. The concession fee goes entirely in favour of the budget of the local self-government unit. This is why I stress these two articles, Article 11 and Article 16, not to repeat now. Further editing, we see from this article, mutual relations with concession agreements, and now I am sorry that there are no colleagues from HDZ because I would actually tell him to follow the conversation, the deal between the city and Excelsa and it is ongoing, the whole negotiation protocol so that it will also go to the city council. In case it fails to agree, the local self-government unit and this investor to whom the concession is actually to be given, then a third member enters the intermediation, which is the representative of the finance ministry. Here I am glad that you have all noticed the beauty, that is, the importance and economic benefits of the Srdje cablemen, and I hope that such an example will be even more in other cities. That's why, of course, we're in front of the SDP club supporting this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51706	Thank you very much. A colleague, Frano Matušić. He's not there. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. And I announce that tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. we will begin the debate on the Proposal for a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Good night. Session interrupted at 21.06 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-15-0.u51707	The following is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, first reading, P.Z. No. 479. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals from the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on cableways for the transport of persons, 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes with 118 votes have reached the proposed conclusion. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament good morning. We continue the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda - Proposal for a decision to join the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, with the proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia The proposal for a decision on accession was submitted by 46 representatives of the SDP. You received the motion for a decision by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure, the political system of the Croatian Parliament. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered its opinion on the proposal for a decision. Would the applicant's representative like to give an additional explanation? Yeah. Chairman of the Constitution Committee, Rules of Procedure. Excuse me. Dear Representative Peja, let's hear it for a minute. Vice President of the House, Honorable Zeljko Reiner.
