ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43001	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, with all due respect to Mr. Cesarek, so that this doesn't turn out to be personal, we at the Croatian Democratic Community club believe that today in the Croatian Parliament we are discussing the most important law governing the health care area in the Republic of Croatia, and given the financial situation, given the impact of the costs in health, we consider the entire financial system of the Republic of Croatia to be of no importance to the Minister of Health at this time but to be present in the Parliament. And I think this is humiliating to Parliament that Mr. Ostojić is not here today. That some other law could happen to the deputy minister. But I think if they won't defend this law, then I don't know which law will defend the team any more about this health care recovery, there are a number of issues left in the air since these funds are not foreseen in the budget. So there will be a number of questions that the deputy at least after the Prime Minister's interpretation, because the Prime Minister here has always assured us that the Deputy Minister is not a member of the government. Thus, his ability to respond to certain things has been reduced accordingly. And we would pray, politely, as a club if it were possible for today's debate on the Health Insurance Act in this House to be attended by Mr Ostojić with the sole goal of trying together to do the best we can in this law, to solve this, fiscal dubiosis that has lasted and has been dragging on for years. So, with the sole goal of doing something good together. Here I am, as president of the Croatian Parliament and on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, asking the minister to be present for this debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43002	Your Honor, I understand your request. I can only tell you that in the club and I personally highly appreciate the ability, legitimacy and legality of the deputy minister in these things especially what it is in the spirit of standards that have been worth for a long, long time in the Croatian Parliament, regardless of what is legitimate, legal and according to standards I hope the Minister of Health has heard your request, so if he considers it good to intervene he will come here. Thank you very much. I'd like a Deputy Minister, Your Honor. Mariana Cesarika to explain the bill's proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43003	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the honourable parliamentary representatives. At the very beginning, I'd just say that the Minister of Health, Professor. Rajko Ostojic, at the moment he is going to the government, to the cabinet meeting so that he cannot be at the government and the Parliament at the same time, and then of course that we have been allocated to me as deputy minister for the assembly session, and the minister will be in the cabinet session. Here, I ask you to appreciate that. Thank you very much. Here's what I'd like to give a brief review of the mandatory health insurance bill. Therefore, this proposal of the Law on compulsory health insurance is in line with EU regulations, in particular in the area of cross-border health care. It includes planned health care for which the insured person must obtain prior approval from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance, a planned specialist and consular health care for which no prior approval of the institute is required and unsustainable health care. It is proposed to introduce compulsory child health insurance up to the age of 18 as a separate category, whether or not they have compulsory health insurance, through which they would exercise this right as well as the introduction of compulsory health insurance for regular students and students over 18 who are educated in other EU Member States. According to the draft law, the preventive health care of insurance undertakings over 65 years of age and persons with disabilities from the Register of persons with disabilities would be fully covered by the burden of compulsory health insurance as well as the emergency transport by land, water and air under the conditions prescribed by the Regulation by the Minister in charge of health. It is proposed to introduce the right to work in half full-time for a maximum period of 60 days. This right can be used after 6 months of continuous illness when there has been an improvement in the health condition, but not complete recovery. Short-term insurance can also be used during temporary prevention to work for the care of family members. In that part, savings are expected in funds intended for remuneration. The legislative proposal envisions amendments to the provisions so far under which the compensation was reduced by 50% during the period of stay of up to three years after 18 months of sick leave. According to the new proposal, the right of an insurance undertaking to compensation would no longer be limited to 3 years, but the insurance company would receive half the amount of the compensation until it was established that it had recovered. This reduction in salary compensation does not apply to an insurance undertaking that has established temporary incompetence due to the treatment of malignancies, to an insurance undertaking approved by a family member of a child suffering from malignancies, to an insurance undertaking whose temporary incompetence is related to the conduct of haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis and to the taking and transplantation of parts of the human body. For the proposal of the Law on Obligatory Health Insurance and Health Protection of Foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, we can briefly say that this legislative proposal regulates the compulsory health insurance of foreigners in the Republic of Croatia, the scope of their compulsory health insurance rights and the cost-accumulation process. Health care in the Republic of Croatia can be achieved by a foreigner on a short stay, a foreigner on a temporary stay that is not necessarily health insurance, an asylum seekers, a foreigner under temporary protection, an asylum and a stranger, a member of a family of asylum seekers, a foreigner under subsidiary protection and a foreigner, a member of a family of foreigners under subsidiary protection and a foreigner who is illegally staying in the Republic of Croatia. Foreigners shall be provided with emergency medical assistance, including emergency transport to an appropriate medical institution and medical care during transport that is necessary to remove the immediate danger to life and health. The draft law also regulates the procedure for the collection of health care costs in foreigners who personally bear the costs. The national contact point for informing foreigners about health insurance rights is the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Finally, the third proposal of the Law implementing the EU Regulation in the area of drug precursors with the final proposal for a law. The legislative proposal therefore harmonizes this area with European regulations. The proposed law defines the competent authority and its tasks relating to the legal traffic of precursors within the territory of the EU and of the European Economic Area as well as transport to third countries. The competent inspection body shall be established and shall make a commitment to the economic operators, namely legal and natural persons, to provide information on imports, exports and/or intermediate activities and all to combat the abuse of precursors and illegal production of drugs and psychotropic substances. The proposed law also defines infringements in order to minimise the possibility of abuse. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43004	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Replications have been reported to your presentation. The first replica and vice president of the House is Honored Representative Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43005	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State, and I would say first that I would actually repeat what I said when I set the agenda, which is that it seems not only inappropriate to me but I dare even use one more difficult word almost scandalous that the Government is sending before this House a proposal for a mandatory health insurance bill 10 days before EU entry on the grounds that this is due to the entry into the EU and with the designation E.Z. If someone in the government didn't have time for a year and a half to realize that Croatia joined the EU in 1.07, then it's sad. And that law could and had to be passed if it changed because we are entering the EU and that is the claim that it is done far earlier, 3 months, 6 months, a year ago. So that's the first thing I find really incomprehensible. The other thing is that it comes at once with a new law, not to amend the existing law regarding those articles relating to our entry into the EU, but to a whole new law. As it is a law that defines crucially the functioning of the health system in the Republic of Croatia, the law which mainly determines the financing of this system, and we know that the financing of the health system is in a catastrophic state, then it is a greater pity that there was no social dialogue on the occasion of the adoption of this law, no trade unions are consulted and the comments that were made by the Chamber and the Association of Employers in Health are not accepted Thank you at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43006	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43007	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So talk about the seriousness of this law when in a system that spends approximately 36 billion kuna a year, the legislator says that in one proposal that this law does not require the provision of new funds in the state budget. If you don't change anything systematically, if you don't change anything for the past week, the prime minister of finance, the Prime Minister, on all bells, is talking about how health will take care of 5 billion, so if you don't change anything by this law, it means that your expenses remain at the same level, and in itself logically, mathematically, however you will, simple mathematics comes to the fact that at this point, there are about 3.4 billion kuna missing from the budget for the cost of health. Since you, as a proponent on behalf of the Government, have not looked back on that financial part, then I am really surprised by the team more by the rules on the work of this House, it is clearly defined that this House cannot discuss a law for which no funds are provided in the state budget. Since these amendments do not actually reduce any rights and obligations of Croatian citizens, as well as foreigners based on this Health Insurance Act, then I am really asking the question of colleagues and colleagues to you and myself from which funds will be financed, which in the previous period has created a minus or we will again in a year, a year and a half to talk about some minus in healthcare of 2.3 billion kuna. I think this is too big and complex a problem for someone to give a flat-rate statement is estimated to have a neutral impact on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia, and at this point, as far as health care is concerned in the state budget, 5 billion kuna is not guaranteed in terms of recovery, but in terms of some kind of chemistry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43008	Thank you very much. You're out of time. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to take part in the report? No, I don't. Before I open the debate, I'd like to make a deal first. I suggest we do this without a break, and we do these three laws that are now under discussion, then we skip the 18th point of the Media Act next week, and then we go in line for the next three points of the 19th, 20th and 21st in the agenda. Did we agree not to take a break? Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. We're going to debate the club of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Independents and Honorable Representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43009	Your Honor, Mr. President, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, I also agree that we have one of the key laws ahead of us. in such health insurance laws, e.g. You win or lose the election in one America. We have probably not yet reached that level of social responsibility. We will continue to deal with some other things in the Republic of Croatia, but the fact is that the Ministry of Health has a budget of about 21, 22 billion kuna. We had a 70 that clinical hospital centers made general hospitals, HZZO rates from 15% down to 13%, maybe they should have stayed on those 15% normal with the aim of discharging the economy. And it's just as Mr. Schucker was saying during the Health Rehabilitation that the Ministry of Finance needed or needed to borrow some 4 billion kunas, says $5.4 billion. Before I say anything about the law, it is right to express my gratitude to our doctors first, to our sisters, in one word to all those who make up this health system. What I also hope to do, and today we have the opportunity to read in some of our presses that doctors or sisters based on a collective contract that has been increased wages now do not know exactly how much, will not have to return these funds to the state budget. However, I would like to say that this is not done in any way by gentlemen before the elections. That's not done before the election, and then there's no wonder why we have one of these court decisions. But I'm kind of going in this order, first of all, this law I normally observe from an Istrian perspective. When we talk about the Istrian perspective, then I will always be the first to apostrophe this General Hospital of Pula. Understandably, when I talk about Pula General Hospital, it's about cca 180 million kunas that are being secured in the past and this year. If it hadn't been done, I'm afraid the government didn't do it, so that simply the problems that the health institution has not only had but also others in the Republic of Croatia would have pulled a whole series of counties behind them. It is also clear that the building is relatively easy to build, regardless of the need to provide a huge amount of money of 600 million kuna without equipment but it is far more difficult then to keep this system in order to express myself liquid. But I'm here when I talk about this Health Insurance Act, and when I talk about Istria, I come from another position where the law speaks extremely much. And that's what it's called here, cross-border health care. Thus, I am quoted in the law itself as saying that the proposed Law, in accordance with Directive 2011/24 of the European Union, regulates the exercise of the right to cross-border health care, which includes health care, which is provided to the insured person under compulsory health insurance rights in contract health institutions in the Republic of Croatia. So it is said that the planned health care for use by the insured person is obliged to obtain prior approval of the institution means health care that is conditioned by the accommodation of the insured person in a hospital health institution. Therefore, I quote, prior authorisation should also be requested in the case of use of cross-border healthcare consisting of a treatment procedure which poses a special risk to the insured person or population, etc., etc. This quote is finished. Why do I mention this cross-border health care? Well it is known that only 80 years ago the inhabitants of Bušinec, which will say Umag, the city of Novigrad, the city of Buje, Brtonigle, Oprlje, Grožnjan only by contributing to the... To Izola, it takes about 10 to 20 minutes for those citizens of western Croatia or northwestern Istria. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To Pula brother to brother for an hour, to Rijeka also for an hour. And people really in that space expect, Godfather, to pray that those emergencies are solved if possible in Isola. I don't think Izola has better doctors than Pula, Rijeka, Zagreb, but they are just closer, before it can be prevented or intervened, they are closer to visits etc., etc.. What is also positive in this Act, well, it is clear, is proposed mandatory health insurance of children until the age of 18 as separate categories of insured persons of the institution regardless of whether they have compulsory health insurance, whether or not they have... compulsory health insurance through which they would exercise the right to compulsory health insurance as members of the insurance family. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The proposed Law introduces compulsory health insurance for regular students, etc., students above the 18th year of life. It is also proposed to introduce compulsory health insurance in case of work injury and professional illness. What may in some ways cause one controversy, i.e. the fact that the introduction of a basic and additional list of orthopaedic and other aids and additional aids in such a way that the additional list of these aids contains aids with a higher price level compared to the prices in the basic list, where the institution provides a burden on the means of compulsory health insurance to cover costs at the level of the price of the same aid from the basic list, helping to reduce the amount of the participation of the insured person in the price of aid from the basic list, a finished quote. So we can provide extra for better implants, for better help, I don't know, for better orthopedic, orthopaedic supplements. And what to say is, you're nothing poor and you're heavy to God. It's also true that health care is simply costing. Every health care service has its own price. Every procedure costs, every aid cost, every transport of the patient costs, every bed costs, every doctor clearly needs to get paid, every nurse has to get paid. And all of this should be covered by the resources of the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, i.e. our budget. And the budget understandably to fill the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Every year probably many of us pay those thousand kuna for additional health insurance and thank God I didn't need it, but I know that one intervention would have cost far more than all of my payments so far. Right, everyone who pays for that supplemental health insurance is primarily about older people, they need to know what it's like to cover. Maybe I don't know, maybe they know, but I think that plate should somehow be shown to us somewhere. Clearly, it is logical that the extra is something that is academic, and it is mandatory that something is mandatory and that everyone needs to be assured of it. This means that even employers clearly have to settle this compulsory insurance in a correct way. As regards Article 19 of page 16 it is likely to be the whole of this Act and it is said that the right to health care referred to in Article 18 shall be ensured on equal terms for all insured persons. And to the insured persons in the exercise of the right to health care from compulsory health insurance, the Law means, the Law, the Institute ensures the payment of health services entirely for the overall health care of children until the age of 18, preventative specific health care of school children, students, preventive health care of women, health care of women in relation to pregnancy disorder, preventive health care of persons over 65 years of age. And not to read all those 22 categories. It is clear that the insurance obligations are due, the insured persons are required to participate in health care costs of 20% of the full cost of health care, which cannot be less than the percentage of the budget base established by points 1 to 8 of this item for specialist consular health care and then for specialist diagnostics, and then for orthopedic second aids, specialist consular health care in medical medicine, rehabilitation, and for treatment in other Member States and third countries in accordance with the regulations of the European Union in accordance with that contract that I previously quoted, etc. Maybe there's a way to include sick people here, taking away these psychotropics, drugs, or whatever it's called. Why do I mention it, because, unfortunately, Istria is in a convincing first place in the Republic of Croatia. I'm going to say one more time when we're talking about what I just mentioned, so it might be good to get it, it can be found in these health institutions, this list that we also can translate to ourselves or better interpret what all of these quoted payments I've listed here are. It's not like I'm calling for some past tense, but once it was really "free", it was clearly costing back then, and today we see that it's really costing and we're all slowly starting to understand and understand it. In some Western countries, we who have a part of the family there have always clearly feared just some diseases, and what that will mean for their home budgets the next day. On the one hand, they will not be able to work, and the question is whether they will be able to submit the costs of the medical services in question. So many of us are somehow against the allegations of fiscalization, but without it, it just doesn't work. We're all against taxes, but without it, the same country can't survive. We're all against contributions, but one community is simply resting on it. And that's why first a sick man is just because he's sick in a difficult situation and secondly, what you might need to point out is some extra social moment to help the weakest citizens as much as possible. I've been under the impression that since 1.7.2013, we could be in even bigger trouble. In this article, Article 39 discusses the right to remuneration that belongs to the insurance undertaking in relation to the use of health care, and then discusses other times. But what I think is certainly one of the key parts of this law is simply contributions, contributions bonds, Article 75. So here is the basics and rates, the method of accounting and payment deadlines, the height and the obligors, the calculation and payment of contributions for compulsory health insurance and compulsory health insurance for work and occupational illness injuries are regulated by special law and the Tax Administration is required by 20th day of the month for the previous month to provide the institution with all records relating to the payment of contributions and other contributions to compulsory health insurance. So in due course, I see that there will certainly be far less avoidance of the payment of the contributions themselves. All in all for the end, this law, which is one of the key laws because it weighs several not billions but nearly 20 billion kuna, should be supported because the condition of survival of the entire health system needs to be clearly survived, don't let God collapse because it would bring down the community itself, but this law is in some way also a message that there is no free treatment, that everything costs and that future health services and the community and us as taxpayers will cost even more. All in all, there is nothing left but a clear support for the conditions of this mandatory health insurance law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43010	Thank you very much, Your Honor. At your exposure, eight of your colleagues want to replicate, one or two times. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43011	Dear colleague Cain, I'll start with this final sentence of yours. You said no free treatment, but this law should be supported. And it's all about free. If there were doubts at the beginning when the Kukuriku coalition was established with the sincere co-operation of the IDS and the SDP, it should certainly not be doubted that Damir Kaja is an honest supporter of this coalition. However, it now appears as generals after the battle and says that it may not have been necessary to cut by 2 index points health contributions 15 to 13, but when proposed in this Croatian Parliament, the Croatian Labourists immediately warned do not be demagogues, you will not help anyone in Croatia if you reduce your health contribution from 15% to 13% because health care has already begun to shrink in debt, because healthcare has been ragging for years. There will be even more dubiosis and there will be no relief from the economy like you said. You said then we'd cut down and by those two index points would open up a lot of jobs. We see, there is almost no unemployed man in Croatia except for 400,000. How many jobs did it open? Hospitals don't have basics, they don't have gloves, they don't have toilet paper, they don't have sheets clean, they're sparring at the end. The lists, those famous lists the health minister announced would almost be gone all the time. The ones who got sick are so to speak written off. Those who have no ties can come very hard for specialist examinations. The biggest mistake, one of the biggest because there are many, has just been a reduction in health contributions from 15 to 13%.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43012	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43013	The employees today are about 300,000, but I know that this is one huge problem, a problem that affects Istria, which affects Dalmatia, which affects Zagreb, which in some ways affects all of us, and indirectly and only health care. The health care has not begun to choke on problems at the time of the reduction of mandatory contribution from 15% to 13%. That contribution has been reduced before. If I'm not mistaken, it was 17% or maybe even bigger in some period. But it was intentional, and I also warned at that time that we might not get much of it, and that we could indirectly harm healthcare under quotes. But it was a positive intention, let's disbursement the wages of a simple economy to save what every one of us lives on, and simply survives health care, which is simply an economy. It has happened and what is happening, but it is certain that this measure on the one hand has been welcomed by entrepreneurs, and on the other hand we see that health care needs or needs to be intervened by means of budgets to preserve this substrate in the form that we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43014	A new replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43015	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Cain, you mentioned health care and health care recovery. I'm reading this budget and looking at it I don't see that recovery, the budget rebalance. So when you look at page 13 of the Ministry of Finance's position, then you'll see that she hasn't practically changed. When you look on page 88, do not apologize 83, 82. The health ministry hasn't changed anything either. Then the question arises and I can also read you the provisions of the law on the implementation of the state budget, then it is asked on the basis of which law, on the basis of which the Government of the Republic of Croatia is talking about recovery. And speaking of recovery, I think it would be finally good if we knew what that recovery was. Because first it was about the recovery of the county health homes that weighs about a billion and 100 million. Now we're talking about five billion, then three billion 250 for drug recovery. Look, colleagues and colleagues, this recovery without a decision from this High House can't go if we're going to talk about the transparency of public finances. Because no matter what chemistry the finance minister made in the end we're gonna have to pay for it. Therefore, do not talk so easily about health recovery because it is an increase in the public debt of the Republic of Croatia regardless of, beyond this Parliament, no matter how. But what I will speak about in particular in my individual discussion is Article 82 of the former article 63 of the Health Law, which the Ministers of Finance worship, and from that article their head is like this. That article weighs about 5 billion kunas somewhere. Why did I ask the Minister of Health to come? So, with full respect for Mr Cesarek this article 82 deserves a very detailed explanation for the members of the Croatian Parliament to be given, because this is an article which pays health care services from the state budget, not from health contributions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43016	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43017	Well, it's clear, Mr. Shuker, that we'll pay for it. And we'll probably rebalance all the budget eventually we'll have to do it under quotes and confirm or approve it. However, I cannot agree that health recovery is not happening in the Republic of Croatia at this time. Now is this about the costs for which five or four billion kunas should be allocated? We'll see in the end. But I'm going to remind you of an example that is much closer to me, that without these under the quotes of health recovery General Hospital in Pula, which last year was written off somewhere around 40 million kunas of dubiosis this year about 140 million kuna, it's somewhere around 180 million kuna. So, if that hadn't happened, not only would she have broken down, not that the doctors, the patients of that institution would have come to the extreme, but that institution would have pulled back the founders, and this is the County of Istria and all the agencies that are based on the founder, and this is the County of Istria, so without those 180 million kunas and without that recovery, there would have been at least two and perhaps thousands of people in trouble. Therefore, the rehabilitation of health care is at least part of that county that is the founders of general hospitals that feel very strongly. Without it, I said the collapse of those institutions would have pulled the county entirely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43018	It is next to the replica of the esteemed vice president of the House, the esteemed representative of Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43019	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor. Well, you mentioned a recovery. It's not a problem, and of course we would all support the resolution, but if it were transparent and we knew why billions of kunas were released, how they were given clearly beyond the budget. Because this High House has decided on no recovery within the budget. But that's just billions of dollars. I must remind myself that one government is very prone to the 18.4. bombing announced the largest health care recovery in Croatia's history. And then the finance minister said that at the cabinet's meeting, five billion kunas would be rescheduled from foreign debt, and that by the end of June, all health institutions would pay within 60 days. Then there was talk of a billion and a table for the recovery of county hospitals. Then, in 1306, the government adopted a decision to resuscitate HZZO of €2.53 billion. Then they talked about total liabilities with 31.12.2012. different figures. Last year, the minister said the health debt was over 7 billion. So it keeps on going, and then there's the story that the money for the recovery was being secured in the amount of 3.3 billion now in borrowing from domestic banks. So, billions are being pushed in, billions are being talked about, they're talking about a recovery, we're actually here in this House, we've never gotten a clear insight into how it's being solved, how it's being solved, and what money it's being recovered with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43020	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43021	Mr. Vice President, we're kind of talking about the same thing. So, both of us simply admit that this is some sort of recovery in action. I can also paraphrase these inscriptions that we've had together, so it's mentioned that 3 billion kunas should be provided for the rehabilitation of clinical hospital centres, so 1.1 billion kunas for the recovery of general hospitals, and then we read that three years of these general hospitals will be managed by the state, then returned to the founders. But parallel to that, you might want to look at low costs within that very health system. I won't say there's a lot of space, but it's my impression that there's a lot of irrationality in some institutions. Or perhaps you should look at the private property of some doctors or directors, and many would conclude that their salaries do not provide such a status for many.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43022	A new replica, respected representative Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43023	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Cain, you have told the poor and God is difficult, alluding that this new law will provide good treatment for the rich, and the black is written to the poor. And maybe you thought it was today. I don't know if I got you all right, but I have nothing else to conclude from what you said but that. It just doesn't stand. In Croatia, we could say that today's poor woman only has the right to health care, that's true. In Croatia, every citizen of this country has the right to health care at all and free of charge. It is unsustainable, Croatia has no money for such a thing. The healthcare system needs to be fixed, solved. Under the conditions of GDP growth, easier borrowing because it was less in charge of the state, this was resolved. In the last term, things were almost settled. This furniture runs away like a little child, this government runs away like a little kid from some problem she's experiencing. The minister won't come to the hearing. Representatives' clubs, who picked up today? HDZ, HDSSB, the party is not answering as much as I understand on behalf of the club and these other representatives, no one is answering, all of you are running away from the problem. Health spends a quarter of the state budget. Gentlemen, do you understand if you don't resolve health care that the state budget can't survive, it's not sustainable? You don't seem to understand it, but the government doesn't understand. There is much to be done, but I argue that this money can make a good health system that is sustainable and would guarantee health for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and it would not be this expensive. And this is all that's done, this is cosmetics, this is the makeup of the eyelash, and the problem is in the shoes. The health care's in the shoes, the stone's big in the shoe. Don't do anything, just run away from the problem. To where? I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43024	Thank you very much. You've exhausted your time. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43025	Yes, Mr. Representative, I will repeat once again that poverty and God are difficult. Croatia, as you notice, has no money. But the Croatian health system, regardless of the budgetary inability, means the economic potential of this country, may well be the best under quotes, perhaps the best organised system in the Republic of Croatia. It's a system that counts if I'm not wrong somewhere about 77,000 employees, which is a doctor, which is what nurses do, what those others who serve simply that health system. Do not run away this power as it could not escape your health problem either, but in a year and a half the problem simply cannot be solved and it is not possible to simply underline any dubiosis or achieve any dubiosis in this system. What I said when I said to that poor girl and to God, I thought that rich people would be able to afford better help in the future, and that a poor woman who doesn't have money would have to settle for the help that will be found or found on those lists. Someone precisely doing this material status will get better quality, better health care, better implants, better aids, and these others will have to be satisfied with what our health system knows. Sadly, it is likely elsewhere in some other countries. I know what it's like for some of my family to be afraid of diseases that live in Italy or in another country. There's no simple free health care. They've been aware of it for 30, 40 or 50 years, we become aware now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43026	Thank you very much. Let's hear the replica of the respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43027	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Cain mentioned a collective contract and hoped that doctors or nurses or technicians would not have to return those funds, those money they received from the signed collective contract more than a year and a half ago. And it won't, you don't have to be afraid for it. They won't, because we passed a new Labour Act on Friday, which defines that duty is treated as regular work until 40 o'clock. After 40 hours, all duty services have to be treated as overtime and thus must be paid. So this is in line with the EU directive and according to the new law voted in this House on Friday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43028	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43029	Well, God forbid that now all our doctors and nurses and others who would be obliged to return 700 and how many 30, 40 million kunas come into this situation that in the next few months they go home without a share of pay. Yeah, I believe it too, and I want to believe that they won't have to pay anything back on that basis. However, there is something else I would like to note, collective agreements of such content are not signed in the moments of Parliament's disbandment right before the parliamentary elections, all with a view to seeing a certain category of people from whom they could benefit politically. Those who do this irresponsiblely treat both the government and the country as a whole and those individuals, I really don't think we call ourselves unnecessary here right now, they don't deserve to defend the conditions of that collective contract. Some other government had to lay down provisions that did not need to return those funds, and I just want to point out once again that it might be rational political behaviour for someone who participates in this political game but it is extremely irresponsible for both the health system and the country as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43030	New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43031	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, it's nice to hear a colleague of Kai's say thank you to doctors and nurses. You specifically told doctors and nurses all the same, but then at the same time you were soon denied and you said you were holding that better doctors in Izola than in Pula and Zagreb. So I can't agree with that claim, they may have working conditions differently but not in that way. But there is a similar situation, and so our minister says we have great doctors and great nurses, and now the Medical Chamber and doctors have made some 15 remarks on this bill, none of which are respected. With the nurses a short time ago, we saw what was going on, they were on strike. And then you say cost, and I want to explain to you that it will cost extra, that it will cost extra in these frameworks where you spoke about orthopaedic aids. We know that the rights regarding orthopaedic aid have been cut drastically, that many cannot achieve enough quantities and now with these changes, the additional and basic lists will cost more. And that's why I think you should know, and of course HSU has something to say. I'm looking at a specific representative of theirs because it's going to cost our pensioners who don't have enough means to exist, for life, and now they're going to be in these circumstances. So I suggest you ask us, we'll tell you, it's important to know and discuss these things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43032	Thank you, too. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43033	I didn't just thank the doctors, and I didn't just thank the nurses, but to everyone whose health system is resting, it doesn't matter if it's about those cleaners, whether it's about those drivers who are carrying the injured from the crash site to those traumas or something like that. I said something else when they mentioned it in Izola, I never thought of it, nor could anyone hear it that I do not believe and that doctors in Izola are no better than those who are or who work in Pula, who work in Rijeka, who work in Zagreb. But I said something else, that Izola is 5, 10, 15 minutes drive away from this Vijština, and one Pula one River is an hour or an hour and 30. And that's why, when he's already speaking this law on cross-border that medical intervention or as it's already called, that emergency interventions should be made possible for the people of Bujština in Izolska hospital by the more what the Buježani means to Novigrad, Umag, Buje, Brtonigla, Grožnjan, Oprtalj, if I've forgotten someone else, let me not object to the referendum there in the '80s, it seems to me that 2% of my gross or net salary for building a clinic center in Izola. This right to the Buježima or these citizens of that area we have to ensure no matter what the doctors, and it costs, I know it costs, but it costs both health and cost and risk whether we get to Pula or Rijeka in time and we know that we can come to Isola. And that's something that a billing officer should simply run about. It is a note of bene one of the political promises and I want to believe that it will be realized in this mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43034	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43035	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Cain, in your discussion, you said health care costs. Yeah, health care cost in the past, it costs today, and it's gonna cost in the future, it's got its price. But the question is, who pays the price? The highest price is paid by consumers and citizens. Why? You said yourself that maybe she should have stayed at 15% and that she didn't have to unload the economy by 12% and cut it to 13%. Yes, it was not necessary for Croatian Labourists to warn and say that health care is in a very difficult situation and that the rate should not be touched. Something else that this government was supposed to do, and it didn't do, we have 570 fiscal burdens that burden the economy. For a year and a half, the government has written them down, and it hasn't touched one of them yet, and it's unloaded the economy. But then there was a rescue solution with 2% of our economy flourishing. We saw how we blossomed. And now finally who pays that price. We have a loss of 5 billion, we have a loss that has been taken over by the Government of the Republic of Croatia regarding health institutions. And how will they cover this loss of government? By withdrawing the loan, which will be owed, which will pay the interest on that loan. And that debt to be paid back in health care. The price of this debt return will be higher than that of 2% or 15%. And in the end, who pays for it? Who will pay the loan and the government's debt? Again, the citizens and the economy of this country only with a higher price.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43036	Thank you very much for the reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43037	Health costs and health care will cost. And I guess that thesis doesn't need to be repeated anymore, so slowly everyone in this country just understands. The Department of Health has a budget if I'm not wrong at the annual level of cca. 22 billion kuna with contributions from the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance or 13% contributions is made around 16 billion kuna, somewhere 5 or 6 billion kuna is to be found in the budget. It is also true that this loan of 4 or 5 billion kuna will be one additional burden on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. As contributions are paid by employers, this tax or this credit will in some way have to be paid by all citizens either through VAT form, through any other penalties or other budgetary burdens. However, I would like to point out once again that the ministry's intention was to decommission the economy. Whether or not it was successful to talk about it and I would be overjoyed if it could intervene in these 570 parafiscal duties. Of which somewhere around 50% means that number of wastes to local self-government and these other 50% to the state. And really at least have someone write them down after a year and a half, 10 years or after 15 years to know what all Croatian citizens simply or employers are paying these parafiscal charges from communal fee to monumental rent. I don't know the contribution of this or that. It would simply be good to know once already what this is paid for, what is the mass of the budgets of both local self-government and state and, in one word, to transfer the burden to the weakest, it says quite a bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43038	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Zoran Vinkovic and 8 replicas. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43039	Here is colleague Cain, I agree that from this picture of Croatian health care we really need to exclude all medical staff, doctors, nurses, technical staff who are currently working in impossible conditions. So get into any hospital, be a little sick at least, and you'll see that you have to take everything to that hospital. From that regular toilet paper to the soap, to the shampoo, I don't know what, and you even have to bring the sheets. On the other hand, the pictures of Croatian health care are today a picture of that series of humanitarian actions, a series of aids that Croatian citizens give if someone is ill. The picture of Croatian health care is that a child who is 6 months old and can not stay in hospital for 1 day accompanied by his mother, this child is probably still feeding on his mother's milk, this child is suffering from trauma. The picture of Croatian health care is also a closed Đakova birthplace closed by a health inspection order but there is also a promise from this new health minister that it will be opened. But that birthplace doesn't open. And it's a picture of Croatian healthcare in the 21st century. That a city with 30,000 inhabitants doesn't have a birthplace. The picture of Croatian health care is that we certainly do not want that American model that one who has money, who is rich has the right to health care and one who is poor, such as the poor, those almost 400 thousand unemployed. Those millions of pensioners who don't have a pension worth living. And so do they, and those workers who receive that average salary, they can simply pray only to God that they are not sick.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43040	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43041	Thank you, Mr. Winkovic, but I don't want to be sick, I don't want to be sick. If so, but I do know that sooner or later we'll all just come by for a favor at some medical facility. However, I want to say something else, that I have a very good experience with the Clinical Hospital Center in Rijeka, but God help me and the General Hospital in Pula. And that this relationship with the doctor's patients was maximum correct, not because of me being a parliamentary representative, it's not because of that simple medical ethics. And I am convinced of the relationship between each of these doctors and each of these sisters to their patients. Yes, it is difficult, it will be difficult, but let's try in some way to achieve at least one such life law as the Health Insurance Act as such, and at least there is no need to politicise here. At least when we talk about politicization, or when we were in opposition, we weren't exactly handling ourselves significantly differently than what those in opposition are likely to do today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43042	We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. The Club of the Croatian Democratic Community and the esteemed representative Darko Milinović are next. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43043	Thank you very much, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister of Parliament. Here I didn't want to start this way but I have to answer to the esteemed representative Damir Kajin, he understands everything, so here today he is understood in the Croatian health system, so I will now tell you on the basis of... You'll be entitled to a replica, you don't have to throw it out of the bench. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So you don't understand everything, you didn't understand that you couldn't win for the mayor of Istria with the help of the SDP and I'm going to explain to you now why you don't understand the collective agreement. The former government has not signed anything that should burden this government. However, if no new collective agreement had been signed, the old law would have been valid and the new government would have been burdened with a billion and a half kuna in 2012. That's not how we signed a new collective agreement with a one-year delay, so from the beginning of 1.1 this year, and this government is if she didn't think it was right, and it's okay that I'm talking and it's going to be, doctors will be paid the way it was signed in a collective contract but she had a deadline of one-and-a-half days to do what she thinks should be done. Medical duty will be paid as overtime, I guarantee you this also from this pay phone because it also requires a European Union directive. There's so much about it. As far as this new law is concerned, I will, someone here said that it's really a scandalous way of passing this law for a few reasons. This would be the same if a state budget were proposed in this House and Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic had other obligations and did not come to this Parliament when the state budget was proposed. The Mandatory Health Insurance Act is a basic health care document, a basic document guaranteeing one or another level of health care to the Republic of Croatia. The Minister of Health is forced into a mouse hole, unfortunately. When there was last week in the government the rehabilitation of the health system, throwing money into the blank, in a bottomless bag, then he wasn't in the government, he had some other obligations. Today when a basic health document is adopted not for next year but for next year there are again some other obligations, it is not here. He's not here for reasons he can't make a political point, he's not here for reasons he's insecure and he's not here for reasons he'd have to answer some crucial questions he hasn't had an answer in a year and a half. Local elections are over, I was hoping he'd rise from a knock-down, real players and real athletes rise from a knock-down, go with a new power to new victories, but Minister Rajko Ostojic is nowhere to be found. Why is it even scandalous to pass this law? Remember in this assembly when the government where I was Minister of Health proposed amendments to the new Mandatory Health Insurance Act was a full assembly, but before that there were six months of public debate. I presented the first proposal of the Mandatory Health Insurance Act to 3,000 people in the Zagreb Hall, then in Osijek in front of 2,000 people, and in Split in front of 2500 people, and in Rijeka in front of 1,000 people. This Mandatory Health Insurance Act has been adopted or proposed, I hope that it will not eventually be adopted without social dialogue. They are not about this document, the basic document for health care to meet social partners, trade unions, employers' associations, a chamber has been introduced that has made 15 proposals to amend certain articles. No such article has been adopted. By exception, we all know that this government also knows that two years ago we knew the date for us to approach the European Union 1.7, 10 days ago as the distinguished academic vice-president of Parliament Željko Reiner said, 10 days ago, except that we are changing this law because of Croatia's accession to the European Union 1.7 goes into emergency procedure and the HDZ would support that only those provisions of this law that really need to be brought into line with the European Union directive are being amended. However, under the exception of that, the whole, complete law is changing, and today on the benches we have a new Law on compulsory health insurance, without public debate, without unions, without social partners, without chambers that gave their opinion, and as the Honorable Representative Shucker said neutrally to the budget, and in some ways the neutral budget is missing between 3 and 4 billion kuna for health care, so this new law is neutral. In fact, there's going to be about 5 billion kuna missing under this new law right now, but we'll talk about it later. We warned HDZ that there would be a collapse of the health system a year and a half ago. There's a health system collapse on stage today. That it is also the fact that within a year and a half of this government, Minister Rajko Ostojić's debt has been increased by nearly 2.5 billion kuna. Why the recovery, the recovery goes at the moment when the system is about to collapse. How much we had to resuscitate the shipyard because they were always in some kind of collapse. '9th, '10. And '11. There was no recovery of the health system because we kept the system under control. In a year and a half, 2.5 billion kunas of new debt. Of course, given this newly created debt, not old debt, of course it was necessary to react inappropriately, by increasing the deficit, the deficit of the state budget is 10 billion kuna, through this small door the deficit of the state budget is climbing by 50, almost 15 billion kuna under unclear conditions, and how the resolution of the health system is done. That the system is collapsing is also seen from the position of the waiting list. Someone mentioned there won't be a waiting list, it was spectacularly announced a year and a half ago. I'm saying there's no state, and she's not gonna be in a world where there's no waiting list. They must be. That's right. But in some appropriate frameworks that can be tolerated. Today 100,000 people are waiting more for their medical services than it was a year and a half ago. And that's why the minister's not here today, I respect the deputy absolutely, it's not easy for him. And now we have spoken on the Health Committee is not easy for the director of the Croatian Institute of Health Insurance because they have no frontman who will fight for the health system as health minister Rajko Ostojić should fight. Therefore, the new mandatory health insurance law is a basic document for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and for its health care ministers have some new, some other urgent obligations. There's no greater obligation for a minister. Remember when I represented it in this Parliament that you were here in the Parliament? We even had a power point presentation here. We even had that because it was a crucial document for health care. I will remind several before the election and even after the election promises made by Minister Rajko Ostojic. Milinovic is making a harbinger of citizens by increasing participation. Why is it that in the new Mandatory Health Insurance Act he has not abolished or reduced those participations? All right, ladies and gentlemen, here comes the charge. I said when we went into the health system reform I was ready to come into the oatmeal nest in that political sense word on Ibler's square and talk and talk about the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. Additional health insurance, remember when we put up with those who can handle it. Remember in this House if you don't, I'll remind you when I say so I think I can pay the health insurance policy more than 80 kuna as much as I paid back then, so we raised it to 130 kuna. We've burdened those who can handle it, and that's how HZZO got extra funding from about two and a half billion kunas. So, by new law or if you have the courage and if you think this is the way you should reduce the treatment options in which we oppose or find new means. Shameful, therefore, complementary, shameful participation in primary health care. You see how everything comes on the charge? That you didn't stop it now. That you did not lift the participation, that you did not lift the supplementary and health insurance, which the ruling coalition did not abolish the shameful participation in primary health care, which, according to Minister Ostojić, meant the collapse of the health system to the Assembly. We'll bring back the health homes of Andrija Stamper. Well, gentlemen, the new law has no better way of not doing what I said was impossible to return the role of home health at the time of Andrija Printer's principle. We're going to cut the pension tax of 1%. Why didn't you call it off? Well, today's your chance. Today, Minister Ostojic had a chance to do what he promised in the election campaign. My colleague Vinkovic, I've been suspended, I've been on a birth control order for four or five years, and I was forced to do so because there were no conditions. Let's remember in this House. Shame on you, Minister. You don't let women have babies. We will return four maternity homes at the first cabinet session. Where are the maternity homes today? See how good it is to remember, but also to know what we're saying in the election campaign. That this law will not cause new giving I will say only from one example. It is said that insured persons are given the right to cross-border health care if they are unable to comply with those rights in the Republic of Croatia, as the minister says to certain medically justified deadlines. Today you wait for more than 6 months for a magnetic resonance in Croatia. Is that justifiable? I don't think so. So, if it's not justified, we're going to Austria. I'm going to make a magnetic resonance there, and HZO's going to have to refund those costs. Well, here's only from that position the state budget would have to secure new funds. Remember, Minister Rajko Ostojic, as soon as I come to the private monopoly, he will not go to the private sector. What do we have today? The extension of the private polyclinic contract to tell you what I support. So, I'm not going to tell public money for private purposes now that, if it's for the benefit of the citizens, and it was for the benefit of the citizens. When it was a month, a new 50,000 patients arrived on the waiting lists. Of course, the collapse of the health system from what counterpart Vukusic said contributions to the health budget were reduced by 2% and in this way about 3 billion kuna the health budget was actually left without the three billion kuna plus an additional billion from the state budget. Four billion kuna. If Minister Ostojić has no strength, political strength, but also courage, but if he can't put himself in front of the health system as a frontman fighting for the health system, my colleague Shuker and I have often fought for the health system, but we knew how to find a consensus on that 63th now 82nd which costs 3 billion kuna, where Linic did not provide a single kuna for that budget. And finally finish. Health care, everything we single out for health care, through contributions, and through everything else, there's enough resources. Minister Ostojic does not have the strength to ask Minister Linic openly for a contribution for the unemployed is not paid out of the contributions we pay 13% but from the state budget, 620 million kuna. Minister Linic of General Taxes must pay the Croatian Institute for Health Insurance 620 million kuna, pension contributions as a commitment to the state budget of 370 million kuna. This is, therefore, a total of a billion kuna which, under the applicable laws, must be paid from general taxes to the health system. She's not paying you, I'm telling you, and the other day I was talking about it at a press conference. And additional health insurance for those who have been released, and additional health insurance pays the state budget of 555 million kuna. I just listed three items that the state budget must provide for the functioning of the health system beyond the contribution, so from the general taxes. So, a billion and a half kuna. And an article before 63, now 82, which remains the same cost of this general tax budget Here I am, three billion kunas. [[Intruder Leko: Bring the end.]] So if all the laws were respected, the Croatian Health Insurance Office would have a budget of 24 billion 784 million kuna, with 20 billion and 657 million kuna. Minister Rajko Ostojić why allow the law not to apply and that Minister Linic is either asphalting roads or building bridges with 4 billion 126 million kunas that have been taken from health care illegally.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43044	Thank you. Seven replicas have been reported for your presentation. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative of Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43045	No, I don't understand myself as much as you did when you were running for president of the HDZ. But let's let it go now, something else is important. You said you saved the government 1.1 billion kuna. Should this mean that doctors were then damaged for these, along with nurses and others working in the system, for 1.1 billion kunas or for example 400 million kunas, what is the difference between 700 and something million to billions and 100 million kunas? Well, it's not in a year, let's face it, this government has created health dues of five billion kunas. This government is in a position to simply resolve those dubious ones. Well, you know very well as the former health minister that about 20 billion kunas of dubios have been inherited, which in shipbuilding, about nine billion kunas, which on the railroad, more than two billion kunas, in the health care of these five billion kunas. So this 5 billion kuna is something inherited from the previous government. These are normal obligations for all of us and we will have to resolve these obligations. The truth is the same is not all of us are equal, neither when we go to the elections, nor when we will go to the doctor and when we will have to be treated. The one who has it will probably come faster and better to some service and vice versa, as I like to tell the poor girl, and you are a burden to God. However, when we talk about elections in Istria that these elections are legitimate, they have been achieved in almost one irregular way. With 10 million kunas of spray money, with the PRs, with full control of written and electronic media, from the position of public authority. About the way elections are held in some other parts of the Republic of Croatia. There's no big difference. But no one burned until morning, so neither will they.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43046	Thank you very much. It's not about health care right now, thank you very much, it's not health care. Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43047	We can do two of us after this because you don't understand again. So I inherited the Mandatory Health Insurance Act, which required that the 1.12. obligations of the new government were not known at that time, which amounted to a billion-and-a-half kuna. I thought it wasn't good and talked to the unions of the 6th month, I didn't talk to the unions at the 11th month ahead of the election, but since 5th, 6th month. We talked for six months about a new collective agreement where they agreed, and that should be thanked to the unions, to postpone their application for a year, and not to be the spending of a new billion and a half, but somewhere around 700 million kuna. And they agreed to it, but even if the EU Directive did not agree to it dictate once again, I am telling you that duty must be paid as an overtime. And I'm very interested in how the minister will share a new salary or how new salaries will be paid on the basis that the County Court has abolished the collective contract. I don't think that means anything and the pay will be the same. He's not paying, he's just paying for duty. This isn't about wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43048	I support that you drink coffee even if I pay for it, so to clear your policy, it's not bad for the MPs. Next replica and respected representative Zeljko Reiner, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43049	Your Honor, Mr. President, I'd say I'm worried first. I am concerned because here we are talking about a law which, as several speakers pointed out, was crucial to the functioning of health care and health financing, the law that speaks of the second largest amount of money in Croatia, and about 10 minutes ago when I counted the representatives there were about 20% of the MPs, now a small number has increased, still two-thirds of the MPs are not in the hall, and therefore we are talking about the second largest amount of money in Croatia. Watching who signed up for a debate none of the rulings have any. I totally understand why that is. Because it's known that tomorrow, when we all vote on it, it's probably going to be 5 billion more, whatever it says in that law, whether it's smart, whether it's stupid, whether it's going to be 5 billion more, or it's going to be 5 billion less, etc. And that's not good! And now something else that offered me the presentation of the esteemed MP Milinović, which is that this is indeed one cosmetic of something that existed with minimal changes, I'm not sure whether for the better, on the one hand, and that the problem of health funding should have been done far, far more seriously. And I'm asking the motionors one question, this is a law called the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. What about the Voluntary Health Insurance Act? It would be logical because it's one whole of him being together with this, he's gone. Why? I'm asking everyone a question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43050	Thank you, too, Vice President Dom. The reply to the replica, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43051	There is another important vice-president of the Croatian Parliament, to this law only if there were some cosmetic changes, there is, of course, under this urgent procedure, except that it is in line with the EU directive, and that would have been a broad public debate for at least two months then it would have come out. So we'll say in all these changes to cosmetic "substorages" one is the introduction of a basic and additional list of orthopedic and other aids and dental aids. What does that mean? That this law will once again endanger those who need health care most for the disabled, including the disabled of the Homeland War, because a basic and supplementary list is being introduced. And what does the supplemental list mean? That you'll have to pay your money out of your pocket the help you need for life, and the supplemental health insurance policy doesn't cover it. So that's the new spending. Here not for the state budget, here for those most sensitive vulnerabilities therefore disabled among them and disabled of the Homeland War. From now on, those who have to use orthopedic aids for the quality of their lives will now have to pay for these aids if they are on the additional list as provided for by this law. I don't think that's acceptable nowadays.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43052	3. Replication in order and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43053	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Milinovic, you are right to act is another humiliation of the Parliament. This debate proves if a basic health document is discussed, it is certainly scandalous that the minister decided to hold a cabinet meeting rather than a session of parliament. The session of the Assembly is certainly not about a document that would mean more to him than this document is about today that we are discussing. Probably what the Constitution says and what it says in the laws of the Parliament is the one that can call the government, it is the Parliament that can impose on the government, but so says the Constitution and so only say the laws, and we know the rule that we do not adhere to the Constitution and do not adhere to the law. It would be even politically correct to show up here as a minister, it would be significant, because it respects and citizens of the Republic of Croatia of all citizens are concerned with this law, so it would also respect citizens especially those who have been waiting for months on the list. You said one piece of information was waiting for a magnetic resonance for six months. It's been waiting over six months. You've been waiting for hip surgery for a year and a half. People can't walk, they don't get wheelchairs. To all these questions, the minister was obliged to give answers here. I hope that when the minister does his job in the government he will sit here and that all of our questions that we have asked will be answered not to us but to the Croatian public because we represent her here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43054	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43055	Thank you very much. I agree with you. I watched on a television account yesterday amazingly and perhaps it's better not to listen to such explanations in the lack of vision and lack of problem solving in the health system. And there will be both the next minister and the next and always this health care system is susceptible or we are forced to change. Asked by one on public television, there are 100,000 new people on waiting lists. Yeah, says I admit there, but the waiting lists are less. I don't know how it's possible. So the minister isn't here because there's no answer, so there's no answer we'll do something like that in six months in a year, it'll be like that in 2 years or 3 years, if I were to ask him if the contribution for the unemployed Linic is paying into the health budget of 620 million kuna at the annual level. You'd have to answer that, if you answered the truth, you'd say no. So that contribution can't be paid from what the two of us or we here pay 13% but from the general taxes, or if you won't pay, so change the law. You can change it today. Or the revenues under Article 63 of the 82nd are about 3 billion kuna, which are special conditions in the treatment of certain groups of people, cost 3 billion kuna. It is necessary to ask Minister Linic whether he is paying these 3 billion kunas to the health budget, whether the contribution from the pensions of the lowest pensions from the general taxes must be paid from... not from the contribution we pay 370 million kuna, whether the excise duty on a billion kuna tobacco has been brought by us, introduced by the law that 32% is paid in the health budget, that is a billion and 200 million kuna, is paid, whether of the fees that are at the level of 4, 4.5 billion kuna, 32% should go to treat the diseases that have been caused...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43056	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43057	And that's seven billion kunas in total. That's why there's no minister there has no answer to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43058	Thank you. New replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43059	You see, colleague Milinovic may be scandalous that there is no minister here, but it is a habit, a habit that has been going on for a year and a half, and even when we've been making a budget for 2013, he was not defended by the Prime Minister but by the Minister of Finance. And it's this habit that repeats itself and first of all points to the government's relationship to this Parliament. Tomorrow we will raise hands especially members of the Kukuriku coalition to vote for a new post. And this is not the cosmetics of fellow Reiner, this is the new borrowing, the borrowing of the Republic of Croatia. And as for this Giakovsky birthplace, it's headed into that project, the election came, and that's where we stopped. There's a promise from the Minister now of Health that it will be open, just didn't say when. Maybe for 50 years. No matter what the citizens want. Because I'm asking another question, is it because Vinkovic is mayor, so it's not my fault people vote for me and that they love me. They don't like other people who ran. But today's picture of Croatian Health is those political shifts in clinical hospitals, setting up similar personnel, setting up all those who have a party book. And that's the only reason they're in those places right now. On the other hand, do you know that in the Clinical Hospital Osijek only one young doctor reported for those 1600 kunas, just one. How many states have their families invested in training these personnel? How much? And just one to sign up. Is that the future of Croatian health care? Surgeon for 1600 kuna, nurse for 1600 kuna. Doctor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43060	Thank you very much. Let love bloom in Djakov. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43061	Well, when you mention hospitals. Hospitals are the biggest debt generator in the health system. When I became minister, my first meeting was with the hospital directors. Col. Vinkovic, and now the hospital's budgets have been reduced to 2000, believe it or not, to the level of 2008. At the level of 2008. The new directors who, let's say, have a minister on it and the right to choose their own people and to put on an I don't know the SDP or whoever they want, but then respect the law. You replaced some directors because they made a debt in a year, all the directors of the clinical hospital centers generated a new debt in a year and a half. Why aren't they removed? Well, that's because they're members of the SDP. Even more scandalous, even more scandalous, I said when I became minister my first working meeting was with the biggest losers, these were hospitals here and my colleague Reiner was Director Rebra, he can testify to that and we found a common language. How, in what way, the 09th, the 10th and 11th stop the new generators, that was an important, rising line of debt. And we found a common language. But I'm not a minister, I'm a minister with a 60-year-old director of health care institutions. It's scandalous for a year and a half of this authority that Minister Rajko Ostojic has not sat down with... Part of the health system, with the hospital directors and asked them, because he doesn't know the system as well as the directors to help him solve the duebiosis in the health system. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I said several times, so, in a year and a half, he had no strength, knowledge, courage or time, or I don't know which of the other obligations to meet with hospital directors who now have a 2008 budget, at the level of 2008, I said at a press conference, in the next three months, health care will generate new half a billion kunas of new debts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43062	Thank you very much, new replica and respected representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43063	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleague Milinović, so don't you understand anything? See amongst the individuals reported for discussion, not one club from the ruling coalition, and we are discussing one of the key laws directly concerning Croatian citizens, you want on the budget side, you want with a thousand patients receiving services. So, it best says, it best exposes the ruling coalition as much as it matters to them, and while they were in opposition, they sent dozens of laws. But what I'm trying to say is, today I'm going to talk about it, it's just things that can't happen, it's this famous health recovery in the Republic of Croatia. If you look at the budget, if you look at the budget rebalance, not a word. It's coming out. Someone's gonna be in charge. However, Article 26 clearly defines how much in debt the Republic of Croatia can be. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Therefore, neither in paragraph 1 nor in paragraph 2 nor in paragraph 3 is the recovery of health care. However, if the State will not be in charge and will give someone else a guarantee, it is again regulated by the Law on the implementation of the State Budget Article 31. However, it is not said that someone will give a guarantee that something will be remedied. And also in all the reasons and budgets and budget rebalances of the budget and the finance minister and his deputies and also the health minister does not speak from which means the recovery will be made. Another thing, talk about one of these laws and write that... This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff of the European Parliament and of the Council in accordance with Article 21 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council (OJ L 348, 30.12.2014, p. 1). 1. In 2015, health contributions are paid into the health insurance fund is at least ridiculous. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why? So because the state budget, so the original state budget, has no revenue of 16 billion, and these 16 billion revenues become revenues of extra budget... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43064	Thank you very much. Replication response. Dear Representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43065	Well, indeed, everyone noticed that no one on behalf of the SDP Club has applied for a hearing under this law. It's just talking about once again saying the absence of vision, the absence of any idea of solving problems in the health system. When you mentioned a new borrowing. Well, I also said at a press conference here and here that this medical system recovery is against the law. Neither the funds in the budget were secured nor all these provisions of the law that you mentioned were respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43066	New replica and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43067	Thank you very much, President. Well, more or less colleagues told me before what I was going to say. However, I considered you a serious politician, former Minister of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to be my colleague Milinovic, simply cannot trust that naiveness of yours that you stated that you still expect this law to not pass. I know it's ironic, but the fact that the predecessors said that absolutely no one on this side came forward to discuss this. This is really... This is really worrying. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] With less important laws, they had at least one on call who reads the government's opinion as what we all get in advance, but here what the predecessors have said is one of the most important laws, but nobody says anything. That's embarrassing. On the other hand, what you mentioned in your debate, and I think we should repeat it many times because the public needs to know. The PZE code, every little thing happens to us, under that agreement with the European Union, we're going through a lot of things. Every few people take advantage of the opportunity to insert a mass of other things into the European Union along with those adjustments. You mentioned yesterday's show by the minister on TV. Among other things, the minister said yesterday that it is normal for the rich to pay more health than the poor because the rich have, the poor do not have, so it is normal. Do you notice what it contributes to what these changes are with this law or this other where such a possibility is introduced where those who do not, who are poor, who will have that possibility of health care will be introduced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43068	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43069	So I also listened to myself in dealing with then-opportunal MP and now Health Minister Rajko Ostojić, and I said in one mission I would congratulate you if the health budget is at the level of 2011, so somewhere around 22 billion kuna. He said it would be bigger. I knew it wouldn't be like that. I'm not naive, I know this law will pass but what I wanted, I wanted to initiate a debate in this House, I wanted those who look at us on small screens, unions, employers, social partners, so that they can get up on their feet because this fundamental law calls for the Memorial Adversek to get up on their feet today as it was raised to the last legs when I suggested anything. Now it's a possibility, now it's an initiative, now it's time for me to negotiate with Mrs. Adversek and all the other unions about the law for almost 6-7 months. Now they must rise up and say that such a law, a fundamental document, goes past the union. They brought us all together when, when my colleague Reiner and I talked about saying if you know anything about this new Mandatory Health Insurance Act, it's a proposal from the PZE, in line with the European Union, I said it's probably some kind of harmonisation, I know some that have to be made. Then I went home, and I can say it's a non-chalant list, and I can see it's a new law. Well, the government wanted to fool the citizens, we're here, so in the SDP, Zoran Milanovic and Rajko Ostojic wanted to fool you into complying with the European Union directives. No, it's a new law that will burden the disabled. And that's why I think maybe by Friday, the Croatian public will rise, that the chamber, the medical chamber that gave 15 proposals, we won't give up any amendments because it's incorrigible. We are looking for a broad public debate to be truly a reform law, as Minister Ostojic announced at the time of the election campaign.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43070	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43071	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Milinovic, you said in your debate that you had not seen Minister Rajko Ostojic anywhere. Here I also have to admit that I haven't seen him in a long time, for several months, but last night I saw him and he happily addressed the Croatian citizens saying that the health debt created by the tax and health policies of this government whose member he is was. So they created a debt, then they settled it and it's good for Croatian citizens. Then on the question of a respected journalist who was concerned with the departure of the best doctors and nurses after entering the European Union to other countries for better paid jobs he said so it doesn't matter what 250 good, top doctors and about 750 best nurses will go away, that it doesn't matter so much and it doesn't matter because he will stay in the Republic of Croatia, that he doesn't go anywhere from Croatia. And the question is that his most important pre-election asset is the one. The most important pre-election promise of shortening the waiting list experienced a practical failure, he said it was a deception of Croatian citizens, that waiting lists were not increased although the data spoke of some 100,000 new people or patients on waiting lists, but that they were reduced by 20% to 30%, which, by looking at it generally as a message to Croatian citizens personally seemed to me in fact that we in Croatia are not even aware that we have a good health minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43072	Replica response, respected representative Darko Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43073	So look, every ministerial position, I'll say it maybe a little sentimentalally, especially the position of the health minister requires a person 24 hours a day. He takes that luxury to take a vacation watch out for himself at a time of crisis, recession. The health system today or this year generates new 150 to 200 million kunas of new debt each month, so it was only there before 2003. So under these conditions he's taking a vacation and going into battle for mayor and giving a message so I don't care about the health care system, it's gonna be someone to solve it, I don't know who. I will be mayor of the City of Zagreb and put the ministerial position in reserve. He showed up as you say yesterday in the lurch, even he said my crime scene was an increase in waiting lists, and yours is a crime scene why you didn't open up the new maternity homes you said. Well, yours is a criminal, so why didn't you cut your contribution from 1% to pension? Well, yours is a crime scene. Why did you let it happen? Why aren't you the frontman of your system? Doctors, nurses, health care professionals. Why aren't you the front man and you're not fighting for more money? Of course, according to the weather, and not by torturing the heads of law, you allow Minister Linic to subtract two percent of the contributions. That's three billion kuna under the exception of opening new jobs. What did we get? A hundred thousand new unemployed. That's 2% of the budget. 100,000 almost, 100,000 new unemployed and returned the health system a few years back when it must be rescheduled now. I'll remind you of the ninth, the tenth, the eleventh, there was no recovery. Why? Patients are relatively not to glorify, but relatively satisfied suppliers of relative, large drugstores were relatively satisfied. They told me we didn't need it. We just need to know that from now on, on a regular basis, we will suffer this debt. But where will the minister go when he has other obligations. Here is today's basic document he has an obligation to sit on the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43074	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the HDSSB representative club and respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43075	Thank you, President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. It is true that a constructive debate, and perhaps because of the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, would be better managed if Mr Ostojic, as well as former Minister Milinovic, were in the assembly, when arguments from the last government and the current government were heard, when those election promises were heard after the election and after Plan 21. I don't think doubting the deputy minister's competence to make it better, to make it politically fairer, more correct, but there it is. We can speak in Parliament as an opposition and our 7 hands in the HDSSB's Club of Representatives won't help or let this law pass. But I am sure that a constructive debate today will certainly make a contribution to the better quality of the law, but perhaps to better understanding of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia's policies in Croatia and the Croatian Parliament. For me personally and for the HDSSB's Club of Representatives, it would be good for the SDP to say something about it and since the Kukuriku coalition is in power and the former government and we opposition then have the opportunity to say really professionally and honestly what we think of something that is ahead of us. And this loses the sense of political debates if only the laws of the Parliament speak opposition, and in my view it reduces one degree of democracy in the Republic of Croatia. It is not good no matter what we are aware of and we must admit to the Government of Zoran Milanovic that the Health System is collapse and that it is no shame to admit that something is wrong or not going and currently in Croatia is not good. But we need to make sure we know how to find solutions through what the voters of the Republic of Croatia have entrusted us with, and that is to work here on their interest. It is also true that it is a fundamental document for health care and that it is really not good that ten days before Croatia's entry into the EU is asking this matter of the urgent procedure of the law because it is EU directives, more specifically on Directive 24 of 2011 which, therefore, regulates the issue of ensuring the right to cross-border health care. It is therefore stupid to be against the implementation of European law and EU Directives not being accepted in the Croatian Parliament or against us as a club of representatives or a club of representatives, so as to implement European directives into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. It is therefore not good that in this short time this law is given in an emergency procedure for discussion. There is not much that can be changed, and it turns out that then the main objective of the law is to implement European law. It's not exactly like that for us. The truth is, then, that the directives should be implemented. We are in favour of the directive that will address cross-border cooperation issues when it comes to health care and in these other laws, the issue of the health care of foreigners as well as this drug offender to that effect, we have united this debate. So, there is much that in this, in these laws and in this final proposal of the law should therefore be accepted and accepted, and therefore falls into one new moment of our country's entry into the European Union and our obligations that have therefore come from membership in the European Union. And there are other questions here where we really need to say that our health system is in collapse and that we need to work together whether it's the ruling coalition or the opposition clubs in the Assembly to try to find a solution that we recognize is difficult and that there are large financial debts and dues in the health system, that even this government couldn't adequately resolve the issue of raising debts in health but unfortunately neither solve the issue of more quality health services to our citizens and citizens. Because here, from previous discussions, it is seen that in 2012, this debt rose slightly more than 2 and a half billion kunas of new debt, that according to this final proposal of the law, today Article 82 here is the most important one, which is the most important one in which we do not provide funds in the rebalancing of the state budget in order to cover ourselves, so all of these costs of the health system that arise from this text of the law that is before us. In view of the scope of the change, it was therefore necessary to present a new draft law. But given the gravity of the problem, it was also necessary to provide resources in the state budget. So we cannot support the fact that, under the exception of European directives, a law like this, which as a basic document of health care, is being passed through the Croatian Parliament. We are in favour of, therefore, what was problematic and what was not good, we also heard about the fact that Minister Ostojić announced when he came that he would come to the post of minister and after the election that the issue of participation in primary health care would be discussed, that there would also be questions of supplementary health insurance, issues, therefore, and those pension taxes of 1% which therefore go, which citizens must pay for health contributions. These are all issues that have been announced and promised in a political campaign that will be opened here in the Croatian Parliament and that it will be completely different. And today it's not even about who will support this or not because we are discussing ourselves, the opposition, but the question is how will citizens who use the health system services come to their own. That for what they voted on in the elections, believing that this is indeed how they will achieve their goal, which is that they have better quality and better health care. It's not like that, unfortunately. We see from these calculations that the health system costs about 780 million kuna a year, that it's missing by projections somewhere around 4.5 billion kuna to patch up the holes in that system. I mean, we've been witnessing here some week, last week or a few days ago that the finance minister explained a new 3 billion-dollar debt and 200 million kuna to cover the cost of paying medicines to pharmacists and health care institutions. We are also witnessing that this new borrowing will generate greater public debt, hence even greater debt in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia and greater public debt for all the funds the government is in charge of, and real problems are not solved in any of this final text of the law. What sometimes turns out to be populism and politicizing of a political story without any opposition in the House really don't know what to say smartly, and simply show that the way and the system of work that we have been doing here in the Croatian Parliament has been for a long time ignoring the views of the opposition, ignoring what is important at this point and some key laws in this way I believe that it doesn't contribute to anything, that it should be completely different. So, in that part of the law when it comes to Directive 24 of 2011 which includes issues of planned health care, the issue of planned specialist and consular health care, the issues of the unsustainable health care which is therefore an obligation to enter into our legal system, that is what the HDSB club supports. We also believe that these solutions relating to compulsory health insurance, so citizens up to 18 years of life insurance of students and students after 18 years to 26 years of life when they study in colleges and schools, insurance of persons who are on board penalties or affirmative measures based on decisions of the judicial system of the Republic of Croatia, are therefore issues of preventive health care for persons over 65 years of age, which is something that we as a club of representatives in this context of the law that we propose. But we think that this is something that all together in this final text of the law has entered into as most important in this text of the law, and then I say something that needs to be said positively about it, and what's wrong is that there is no financial means to ensure it. Questions about better disease control, issues, therefore, and the supervision of doctors who give workers these temporary sick leave, and I myself witnessed working in the Croatian Post Office system that there were really problems about how doctors assigned the lengths of working sick people and the interruption of sick leave and the resuscitation of sick leave. There was a problem. And I think that the controls that we had at the time gave our effect and the contribution that this system did, however, because it itself is burdening the state budget to put into order. So these solutions regarding the control of these temporary illnesses and the possibility that in a different way and through such controls savings are achieved in the state budget is something that we as a club of representatives support. I believe that by the end of this debate, I don't know what can be fundamentally changed. Tomorrow is the vote on this law, there won't be much. We are afraid of the times ahead of us and of this collapse of the health system of the Republic of Croatia and of the increasingly difficult situation in hospitals. And we're afraid that our doctors and nurses no matter what number it is, today it's maybe 250 and the year it's going to be a lot more, leaving the Republic of Croatia. It is thus jeopardizing the primary health care of our citizens and is challenging the functioning of the system as a whole. We need to do everything that you are here ruling today to acknowledge if so is and that there is no one behind anyone's back, everyone is responsible for their portfolio, and what was the government's message when it received elections on Plan 21 to take responsibility for Croatia we think that this issue of health care is one of the fundamental responsibilities of the government towards its citizens, given the system in which we live, given the problems and increasingly ill nation than and stressful situations in which our families live and the overall situation in Croatia that is not good today. There is no need to say now that only the Government is responsible for this situation, they are responsible and the different conditions for which we have come. But sometimes when it is necessary to admit that something can be done together and that both the left and right sides and the Minister and the former government and the Minister of the current government should be done here in the Croatian Parliament before us representatives of the opposition that we too can at times assess what should be supported or not at some point. And like this, when discussions are avoided on such key issues for our citizens and citizens, then there is no point in supporting the law unless those who have proposed this law discuss it. The HDSSB club will not support this text of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43076	Thank you very much. We have 5 replicas reported, but before that one notice. At the request of the HDZ Club, we'll skip, once we've finished the debate on this point, we'll skip to point 19 for a moment, and we'll discuss point 20 first, and then we'll get back to point 19, so you can prepare for the debate. We're moving on to replicas now. Branko Vuksic reported the first line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43077	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear counterpart Salapic, these facts that you spoke of, and many other parliamentary representatives have spoken today in the debate, which is not here Mr. Ostojic and has not been reported to discuss SDP and HNS clubs, speaks of a high degree of consent to their legislation. It may sound ironic, but it is another fact that there is no minister and that these clubs are not in the debate is an unpreparedness to dialogue so you do not want to talk in this House where we should talk. It's ignoring the parliament and it's mostly ignoring the opposition. According to those old dogs, the caravans are coming through, we're gonna raise our hands tomorrow no matter what you say or what you think about it, no matter who the citizens think about who you represent in this House. It is absolutely certain that this is when one of the basic documents is not only about health but one of the basic documents concerning all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is when we talk about the pension system, when we talk about a health system, when it comes to such a chamber atmosphere, is enough to say that the political climate is not good, that we will certainly not contribute to and by pushing problems under the carpet, we will not contribute to the improvement of Croatia and simply lack the minister to answer all those questions and finally find out about waiting lists and debts, how much debt is inherited, how the hospital system will be resolved, when births will open, all those questions we have asked here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43078	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43079	Dear counterpart Vuksic, so it would be fair above all to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if the minister were here today because it is an important resort in the Croatian government one of the issues that also financially burdens the state's cash register at increasing and increasing amounts. This assembly is a bit sad, we have already talked twice about the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we have introduced replicas. The Republics were supposed to contribute to greater democratisation and democracy in our debates. For a long time, two minutes of replicas, two minutes of answers, and it's all come down lately that the opposition in the Parliament our club your club, the HDZ club we discuss with ourselves. And according to the public, there is a totally false picture of the Croatian Parliament, our credibility, it turns out that the opposition is entirely against us, that we are completely rebelling, that we speak for ourselves that it is not so, because there is no quality government in me without quality opposition. We must be that correction of power where we will warn of what is not good and what needs to be changed. Not a single final text of the law that will not respect any opposition in my opinion is a good law because we too have been elected by voters in our election units, we are all parliamentary deputies and I am many parliamentary representatives from the ruling coalition I know from the previous assembly and I am sure, yesterday I was telling Mireli Holly that there are high-quality representatives, professional and smart people who have nothing to say and about this bill and the laws that are before us. So what is the debate about the Rules of Procedure, and what is the debate about giving us more opportunities to discuss if it is very often only a matter of opposition, and if we very often address not MPs but empty chairs. That's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43080	Next replica, the esteemed Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43081	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Representative, you have mentioned, as well as more colleagues, the feeling of frustration that we speak to each other in one narrow circle, and that it is completely whatever you say to me smart or less cleverly, constructively or less constructively, and that, on Friday's day of voting, it will all be filled in, ruling its own votes, no matter what they say to me and whatever they say constructively. Especially in a situation where we have an emergency procedure law, except that it is a conformity with the EU where it is just a few articles and where it could have been resolved by additions to the law but it did not work out, but it came out of me completely unclear reasons with the new version of the law. a new version of the law that could have been used to make one important contribution to the functioning of the health care system and especially to the financing of the health care system that is in a very bad situation. However, this did not happen but made a new law, and in fact with a minimal incursion into the essence of things, and this minimal intrusion in one wrong way. Whatever we're talking about here now and whatever we're saying, because it's saying exclusively to the representatives of the opposition both in individual debates and in the name of clubs, and it will unfortunately have absolutely no effect on this law. It is the first and second reading at once, an emergency procedure other than amendments that would be quite certain if they were all rejected as they have always been if they were given opposition. So this conversation of ours doesn't really make much sense, and I agree with you in that assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43082	The replica corresponds to Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43083	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Vice President Reiner, we agree here on everything we've said both. Our debate for me is not that it makes no sense, it will certainly have its meaning for those who have trusted us in the elections, no matter how difficult and critical the situation is, and it is, we have seen by this text of the law that the health system is in collapse, that 2.5 billion new debts and debts from last year even though we are aware that the ruling coalition has enough hands to vote every law in the House whether we support it or not. What I have said is the dignity of the Parliament, the credibility of the MPs, and even what has been going through the newspaper of what our salaries and receipts are, given the time we live in and all that we experienced six months ago, that somewhere when you arrive, you must be ashamed of what you are. People get the wrong picture of us here what we do and what we say. Completely wrong and completely the opposite of what we should do after we came to the Croatian Assembly in this 7th meeting. It was much better that last council meeting when it was the former government when MPs on this side often spoke often about the laws and created in certain situations and riots here in the Assembly not to bring something down or wrongly said but to make it a better and better quality law that we give to our citizens of the Republic. And we're alone here now, you say, with ourselves. And it's not good, it's the wrong picture, it's the wrong picture of the rebel opposition, the opposition that terrorises... as someone here says, and indeed it should be a real picture that each representative makes a contribution to better-quality laws. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] When that happens, then we will justify the Croatian Parliament, today at the door of the European Union. Then we'll also justify the voter's trust. And all those who expect us to change, who expect us to live a better life in Croatia and not just to have something come down to some pointless debate in the Croatian Parliament. It's no use to anyone at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43084	The Republic will now be presented by counterpart Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43085	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Mr. Salapic, your colleague said we need a consensus. We don't need a consensus, no, I've always thought, not always, for the past 10 years that a consensus should just solve, in the state of health to rid itself of the great problems of the state that health care carries with it and so on. The last government didn't have as much support in parliament as this one, this government has almost 100, according to 100 hands in the air, and that defacto consensus doesn't need it. She has strong support in the Parliament that she can pass a law that she will and that the sun rises from the west they would raise their hand. Therefore, formal law does not need, not formally legal, content need not consensus, I mean numerically, but in terms of content, this is an important thing for Croatia, and therefore we should consensus on this important thing for Croatia by some sort of agreement. Well, if not, the vote, but then at least the opposition makes a contribution. But the ruling says, we won't talk to you. What the minister didn't come, you don't mean anything to me. What he hasn't reported has not been reported by the party, neither on behalf of the party nor on behalf of the other parties. So we're... We don't need you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Nine hundred thousand people in the country voted for us, and that's enough for us, we have power, we can declare war, we don't ask you. But this didn't just push this to the surface of what, the essence of things in the state. Peja Grbin, president of the Parliamentary Committee, he says I will not admit the referendum, we have been voted by 900 thousand people to rule the state. And 760 to 800,000 people sign one family law and Peja Grbin says I don't admit the referendum. That's the relationship, that's the same relationship with this ruling set. When someone gets power, somehow loses the compass. [[Thank you very much.]] It seems to me that the ruling set lost its compass. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43086	Comrade Marasovic, let's stick to the topic, is not the topic of the Pedja Grbin or the referendum. But you may hear it in response to the replica. Here's a colleague of Salapic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43087	Thank you, Vice President, colleague Marasovic, I disagree with you that we do not need a consensus. On some national issues and problems that arise in the Croatian Parliament, which concerns all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we should at least discuss, so some minimum degree of understanding and cosine are found because not all that comes from the opposition is stupid and I believe that, given that many have had experience in previous governments, something that has been said specifically as today was the issue of speech that the new minister announced the abolition of the primary health care participation, and the regulation of the different issue of supplementary health insurance. So the former minister explained it didn't happen. These are some topics, just the part about which we as representatives in the Croatian Parliament were left or right or opposition to any club on the basic health law and on some other fundamental laws such as the question I do not know the Labour Act, now that we do not list others we should still find some excessive solution. If it is necessary to acknowledge that the collapse of the financial system, that the government's path to health is not good, that no announcements and forecasts of the minister were made prior to the election and after the election. Then a consensus should be sought in the House, even for wrong moves, steps if they are justified by some other reasons and some of the reasons that we unfortunately cannot hear from the minister today. We can only be negative for the minister today because he's not here. We can judge a Mr. Deputy who has nothing to do with it, who is expert in his field of expertise in his field of work, we've known him for many years, but we don't know the real reason why he is because the minister isn't here. And that's what's not good. The minister emerged from this assembly of parliament, from this majority and as such since he is responsible for his portfolio is responsible for the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And to us MPs should be here to answer our question. Then we might as well understand where the real problem is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43088	The next line will be presented by the esteemed representative Ivan Shuker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43089	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleague Salapic, I sincerely expected when you spoke about the recovery that you would, on behalf of your club, ask if today in this debate on the new law, we will finally know how much health care is at a disadvantage. Because it would be logical if we were to pass a new fundamental law if someone told you, listen to health care is so much and so much at the bottom of it. Because from what we've heard from the government over the past few weeks, we don't know if it's five anymore, whether it's three or what it's like with county hospitals. ... Because all the time it's been talking about some kind of long county hospitals without talking about that 7 billion kuna debt. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] The second thing, I expected from you as a lawyer, an excellent lawyer, as a man who advocates the right to ask a question on behalf of the club and personally by the basis of which that provision is in charge. Because look, the laws define who at the expense of the Republic of Croatia, in which way can be in charge. Besides, it's all against the law. Now look, if someone had offered us two answers to these two questions today, maybe our debate would have gone the other way. However, not that he did not offer us an answer to these questions, but they do not want to discuss these issues. But even the SDP and HNS Club don't surprise me because it's their political decision. I'm surprised by the pensioners. Because because of some of the provisions of the article, in the former 63rd, 83 years ago, they practically stepped out of the coalition because of that and that part of the crisis tax. However, today in the 83rd article, everything is wonderful and wonderful. See if this article in 83 did not work out three years ago, then it is not good today, for pensioners today live harder than they did three years ago. So this was the topic that today, for the sake of the benefit of Croatian citizens, we are talking about real problems and the real negatives of Croatian health care. Then it would probably be easier for all of us if nothing else on our souls.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43090	And this replica is answered by the respected representative Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43091	Dear colleague Shuker, I would like to ask that question in my debate both and the other and the question of Article 82 and where we will find the resources in the state budget to cover it all but I don't know who to ask when I don't have anyone to ask. I can only ask myself, or I can ask the former minister who is no longer a minister and who, at least when the HDZ government was in charge, was in Parliament to explain why she was in charge and how much everything was there. And that government was in charge and we discussed it, so we don't know if it was necessary or not, but at least all the ministers were in the assembly listening to those criticisms of opposition and opposition MPs if it was fire from all sides, and that's what it really takes to be spoken constructively. And when spoken on behalf of a representative club and when you have to make a statement and ask some questions if you talk to yourself, it's like looking in a mirror and practicing what you're going to say or not saying. There is no answer, there is no argument for what is sought, and there is no truth to the will or arguments in the legal text, an argument to see from which it will be covered. Well then the wrong picture of the law is created, and the wrong picture of everything here in the Croatian Parliament is created, so simply when you have no one to ask then it is better to say your argument in a way that best those who chose us understand you. I am sure that we are understood by the voters who have given us confidence in Slavonia for our actions and for you in Velika Gorica, what you have been saying here today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43092	The last line will be presented by the esteemed representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43093	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Salapic, you've touched the problem of being sick. temporary inability to work where the selected doctor is authorised in accordance with guidelines etc. to determine this temporary inability to work, and in that part I want to say very clearly that there are no problems. Why, because every system information system that's licensed says right at the beginning so much for this disease, for that diagnosis possible. Second, in the territory of the Republic of Croatia 90 HZZO controllers selected HZZO doctors who control the functioning. You may have some experience that you spoke of in your county, but I want to say in the county from which I come that there is no problem. We've had sick rates for years within the limits of permission and permission, so it must be there. But there's another problem, that when there's a problem and then he says that the chosen doctor is guilty. A short time ago, we witnessed a flight attendant's illness where doctors were, of course, on the basis of an indication since he was authorized here, given the illness, but immediately the second day of the regiment's inspection that said all the illnesses were indicated, all indicated, and here what happened, the humiliation of the doctor, of course the endangerment of their autonomy that everyone said they were, and the fact is that doctors are working under difficult conditions, is the fact that our population is sick because if health is completely mental, physical and social well-being so that in these circumstances we can expect. The fact is that many are still being treated for the consequences of war, PTSD, and in these circumstances doctors have to swim. So fragile is knowledge.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43094	Time. And this replica will be answered by a respected colleague, Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43095	Dear fellow Milinkovic, in my discussion, I talked about this difficult situation in the health system and not alluding here to some poor or false work of doctors and doctors in the health system, but it is true that they are some kind of indicators. You know the system best when you work in it, so there are some experiences that you can actually get on cases. It is true that in some cases such unwarranted illnesses occurred because you know how, when the controls were increased, the number and the number of workers were reduced and the number of workers returned to their jobs. Now, not blaming the councilmen, not blaming the individual workers, because some people are really doing their job fairly and some are really sick and justifiably in pain. But we have to admit to ourselves that there are problems in the system and that there is a need to strengthen control not because we blame or get into the diagnosis of a doctor or whether someone is really sick or not, but that a proper control would achieve savings to this system because it was seen how much this system in that part of the billing is burdening the state budget. So speaking about it, I'm totally in favour of doctors doing their job independently and professionally, that they are difficult conditions, they are, but that in this part I need to introduce controls in view of now I don't know about your county any honor if so, you're the best you say, I trust you, but that you need to strengthen that control system because of the interests of all of us, and also because of the interests that, like today at 35 degrees outside, you need to do your job, and some of you may actually be able to do it and not be sick, and are sitting at home. It means control for the efficiency of the system, but also for saving money in the Treasury. It is the most honest, and not doubting the quality of anyone who works in the system, any doctor, any worker who goes to sick leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43096	We continue to discuss the clubs and will speak on behalf of the Croatian Labourist-Stranka Rada, a respected representative, Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43097	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here's almost everything we said and told each other. I don't want to repeat myself, I'm going to be very brief and start with my personal mood when I've opened this law and my own feelings, and the only feelings that have been are that I thought at that point another scam. In this way, pushing the law under the pretext of harmonising Croatian legislation with the regulation of the European Union is not good for anyone, and I think it is the most harmful for those who are in power because it shows the policy of leading this country and relations not only towards us as parliamentary representatives, but definitely towards every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. It's just low and pathetic. But we talked a lot about it today. The other thing that concerns me is that it turns out that no one else is needed, we don't need parliamentary deputies, so maybe we should think straight so that we can disband the Parliament. We don't even need a Croatian medical chamber when we pass one of these basic laws on compulsory health insurance. Because here are 14 remarks from the Croatian Medical Chamber simply not taken into account. I'm asking myself if they've been read at all. We're talking here today that no one needs to hide behind anyone's back. He thought of his colleague Salapic at that time as our minister. However, what concerns me more than the minister is that we are all parliamentary representatives. The minister here today has brought us here on the bench a proposal. However, he does not make the proposal. We can set things up that he suggested it, and someone else will vote for it, for that law. We have already determined that the rulings are not interested in the debate. This morning there was a six-vote board for the ruling. The Committee accepted and gave its opinion on this law, so we can also conclude the mood of the ruling ones and that this law, as we have established not only today, but also so many times by now, will be voted by most hands in the House tomorrow. However, these hands in the Assembly are the hands of individuals, and that is the personal responsibility of each parliamentary representative. I repeat neither Minister Ostojic nor anyone who wrote in the ministry and proposed such a law as we have here today. The consensus certainly should, because it turns out now that we always make laws for someone else, not for ourselves. Tomorrow, one of us may need that particular helper or any compensation related to compulsory health insurance, and then we will see how much we will feel and how we feel when we realize that we voted for it to be just like that. We make laws for everyone, not just for some and try to think that way. I said I'd be brief, and I'll finally tell you what we're surprised about. A few months ago, all parliamentary deputies got into their boxes or on their benches one book. The book is called "The Status and Perspectives of the Development of European Health Systems". The book is the result of the joint multi-annual work of coauthors to explore the problems and perspectives of the development of the health system. This is a comprehensive review of the problem of the development of the health system, in particular European health systems, health systems of EU member states, and soon new members, as well as the regional economic integration of the Republic of Croatia in a decade. The book discusses health factors and specifics, as well as health, health systems and economic development. Special attention is paid to and focused on the problems of financing health systems from analysis of the challenges of sustainability of funding policy, pillars of funding policy, different opportunities, representation of the funding model, the importance of strategic resource allocation and the purchase of services, to identifying potential reform policies, financing policies and their impact on the health of the population. And according to the end of this preface, the book is intended for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia students and all those who want to know more about the state and perspectives of the development of health systems in Europe, but also in Croatia. One of the co-authors of the book is our respected health minister, Mr Rajko Ostojic. And today, when I was thinking about why, in this way, under the exception of harmonising one of these fundamental laws with the EU, we act the way we act. I remembered that I recently received that book. And the only thing I could get to is that perhaps today the minister doesn't have here for the simple reason he thought if he gave us the book he wrote he simply shouldn't present his laws here anymore. I think I might be on to something. I don't know what more to say than that if someone wants to know the opinion of the minister, if they want to know in which way the minister wants to, can or wants to get our health out of all of these dubiosiss that we are talking about today, if they want to correct all of these health gaps in the Republic of Croatia, that they find that book somewhere, that they can read it, and that we don't even need to talk about the laws regarding health and health in the Republic of Croatia in this House, that we don't need to be nervous, that we don't need to do any analysis of how we're going to get out of health, that we don't need to count millions and billions of kuna that taxpayers and citizens of the Republic of Croatia have to put into health in the weird circumstances of non-transparent or rehab, in order to get rid of the dubiosis, behind in paying bills and everything else. The Croatian Labourists will in no way support this law for the simple reason that we really do not think that it is any way to comply with this excuse with European legislation, adopt such very important laws and simply marginalise all the problems that we currently have in Croatian society, as regards health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43098	Thank you very much. So now we move on to the replicas that are exactly 5. The first line is the esteemed Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43099	Dear Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Tyrelli. I was offered the opportunity to mention a consensus similar to that of a distinguished colleague Salapic. I also advocate that, and I think it would be very good if we could reach a level in this House that on some issues that are really important to all Croatian citizens we can reach a consensus. Not because I'm dealing with it, but it seems to me that health care, education, science, that it's in some areas that we'd all really have to do for the benefit of citizens and all of us to reach a consensus. However, we are witnessing that this is not the case. We're witnessing the fact that actually if you wanted to ironize, I could ask a question we don't really know what the ruling wants because neither one of their clubs answered, nor anyone answered as an individual. Well, we don't know, maybe they don't agree with that at all. Of course it's ironic what I'm saying, but the fact is both. The way this law came today for a plenary debate. Not only is it being led, that we're talking to each other without the ruling interest at all, but the fact that the Health Committee was called up as an emergency and called for this morning, so this morning, at half past nine, it was supposed to be nine o'clock, and then it was moved at half past nine because it was known that at half past ten it would be as the first point of debate about this. This indicates how important they are to this case, the subject in which I repeat, we are talking about the second largest amount of money in Croatia and we are talking about the area of virtually every citizen in Croatia. Health care is something, unlike some other areas, with which we all come into contact at any age. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43100	Thank you. The replica matches the respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43101	Well, here's the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament that I agree with you that the consensus needs, and that's what I kind of apostrophe in all of this because I really think that sooner or later we all need it in this health system and that sooner or later we all need it. I am very, very sorry that I do not hear an opinion from the ruling benches about this law and I am saddened to know that none of the parliamentary representatives really have anything to say. I suppose a lot of them would have something to say, but the question is whether or not they can speak, which is why they can't, and that's maybe what the Croatian public here right now needs to worry about the most. It turns out that only a few people in Croatia make certain laws according to their own intentions and dictates to everyone else what and how they should do in Croatia. Because of that and that policy, that and that kind of thinking, unfortunately, we are where we are, because we have allowed individuals to decide on behalf of all of us. And it's not even about being honest anymore, not about all ministers, not all MPs, not all those who represent those 900 thousand voters who have expressed confidence in this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43102	The second line is respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43103	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleague Tyrelli. Well, you're looking back at the consensus again, and I want to give that one extension of what I said. In my thinking not only as a parliamentary representative but as a citizen before this term, I was thinking that these big topics such as health care and the judiciary would be worth a great coalition. I think we understand what we're talking about to solve some fundamental issues in the state. Let's say two years of big coalition because not one government individual from one worldview had the power to force it and to solve it and then after two years each to his side, as something in Germany and two years were together and now each on his side, Germany is going great forward. This government has such power in Parliament, it does not need consensus in terms of the number of hands. She can bring anything she wants, that's how she behaves. Until the humiliation of the opposition in that sense, we understand each other. And she can solve the question and the health care and everything else if she knows and will. I think there's a general confusion here because apparently the Ministry of Health has moved on to the Ministry of Finance. And Mr. Secretary of Finance says the hospitals are filled with laundry. I can't tell you everything within the line, but I'll tell you this, so who's gonna be following the goods at the hospital? Well, somebody's got to follow the stuff in the hospital. Whether the hospital service or if you give it out will come in a third more expensive. He thinks when he pulls the laundry out of the hospital it'll cost him less health care. No idea, Linic has no idea what he's talking about in terms of health care. There is a great confusion, and the crisis is obvious, if the health care system is not resolved, there will be a major crisis, no one will be able to fix it anymore. Because if a Split hospital needs 70 million a month for minimal functioning, and now the state says 50, 20 million minus every month what will it do? It's not a recovery, it's a payment of debts. I am in favour of resuscitating that Croatia no longer needs to raise credits for the functioning of Croatian health care. So, for me to edit the health care system. That's what I represent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43104	The replica matches the esteemed colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43105	Here comes colleague Marasovic very, very short. Consensus is required and no consensus on the matter of hands is considered. What would be desirable and good is a consensus on reason and responsibility. It's the only one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43106	The next line is respected Branko Vuksic. The last line is respected counterpart Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43108	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, fellow Tirelli, you were talking about the reasons and motives of handlifting, and there are various explanations, so someone under party discipline. But I can't understand the part of our colleagues who simply keep quiet here and represent an extremely important population in our society, these are pensioners. I can't understand a party of HSU who doesn't say a single thing here, and mostly about the part you've been saying about aids because we all need some help at the time. And we testify that the quantities of these aids are insufficient with that rule that has already been passed. And now under these circumstances will be added without that defined this voluntary insurance will still be additionally burdened even though a single strike against the pensioner standard has been done by no one can say a single word. A special story, of course, is what we witnessed shortly ago with people with disabilities, the person where the lawyer said that there were insufficient quantities, not to mention children with developmental difficulties where there were parents and protested about certain rights before a short period of time about these rights. So it's all a complex question and I think it's really here to hear the voice of those who represent those that are very important and important to us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43109	The replica matches the esteemed colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43110	My colleague Milinkovic, not today for the first time in so long we have witnessed in this House that we solve everything partially, so then we get a report from the D.A. for people with disabilities, we are all very, very sensitive and we say that we need it so much. So we get a report from the attorney general for children especially for children with developmental difficulties, so we're all very, very sensitive again and we tell her that here's the society that has to do it. And then we all get involved in the debate, then we get involved in the debate and the opposition and the ruling and we all talk about that protection that we want so much. But we fall for the exam when exactly what we're saying we need to confirm through this one law, so it's a law that dictates what a disabled or what a child with developmental difficulties or anyone else needs something, and it's about compulsory health insurance to have, then we vote all the opposite of what we said when we adopted and accepted reports from certain attorneys. So that's the personal responsibility we're talking about because if a man is personally responsible for raising his hand on a law like this, then he also confirms what he said when we talked about people with disabilities. But if he raises his hand here for something that lifts the rights of those same people, then he certainly loses credibility. And I sincerely and warmly hope that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, especially those who are entitled to it, see it and know exactly who is for what and when they raise their hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43111	Thank you. The word is now being reported by the respected Health Minister Rajko Ostojic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43112	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. The first apology for being late because at the same time she was a cabinet meeting and I am convinced that at least former ministers who were so eager to show up at the Parliament know at least doctors, at least teachers that you can't be in two different places at the same time. It's practically impossible. The levitation, the levitation may be yes but being at the same time in two places can't pass. And immediately an apology because I have to move on because I have a meeting of the EU Health Ministers, and in 10 days we become a member of the EU, so I have to go to Luxemburg. Therefore, an apology because I am convinced that you at least appreciate the former ministers that you must attend the EU government meetings, or perhaps you do not think that you should. I know you've missed me but knowing that the Deputy Minister himself is my replacement, he's appointed Prime Minister, Prime Minister, so please don't make the difference between ministers and deputies, it's just not good. So I hear you've been discussing my book that's great, thank you very much for the review, excellent. You will receive a book in English next week, so I will share it with you and it is a small gift from the Minister of Health today to all EU health ministers will receive from me a gift of globalisation and development of the Croatian European and world health care system as my small personal contribution and our countries to the European Union and medical literature. I stress, therefore, not the medical book, but the book that speaks of the health system. So the reviews you were talking about encouraged me to write another book at this time. Thank you very much. What have I been doing for the last three years, the last 18 months? Three key things, first of all, when I came to the Ministry of Health, I had to say goodbye to the DORH, the Institute of tumours, as you know, handled the DORH. Then I received the Constitutional Court's decision that anti-constitutional decisions were made on the Ministry of Health and here today, yesterday and third that no legal decisions were made. So DORH, counter-constitutional decisions, illegal decisions. Listen, someone's obviously designed to make a mess and someone just has to work the line. Order and work. We've been working today, gentlemen, and I hear there have been a lot of questions, especially from the financial sector about the recovery. All recoverys, recoverys of county hospitals have begun. Mr. Col. Vuksic, you asked me a nice question, so I'll tell you, about financial operations, it was 5 billion, clinical hospitals don't work long, county hospitals work. And the answer to the second question, I agree the county is also a major debt generator but you haven't asked me any questions, and you probably don't even know that a home of health goes with the rescue. That a home of health goes with the rescue. I'm sure you know what county that is. And... We've been dealing with it today, and that's what we've been dealing with today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So not only do they go to the rehab of the Clinical Hospital of KBC and the County Hospital, but also Dom of Health Gospić. So, the debt of clinical hospitals thanks to the new managers, and you saw last week the state's audit of hospitals in 2011. And you saw how the hospitals were doing. And you know who ran those hospitals. I don't mean political parties. I mean names and last names. You saw what they looked like and you saw that other than the hospital two, Požega and Karlovac all the other hospitals had serious, serious objections. I'm glad you're nodding your head from Požega. For this reason, the Sanitary Governor of Požega will be the current director, will be the current director, which is another proof that we are not looking, not looking at party colors, but looking at order and work. We respect the decisions of the Constitutional Court, we respect the decisions in this case of the Municipal Court, we respect the state audit and therefore we do not change the director regardless of his party membership. He's been through everything, and that's how it's gonna be. Once again, you can't stop as you know Reuters, the old famous, you can't unfortunately stop the traffic of the aircraft, I don't naturally use any bypass when I get on a plane but line up with all our citizens and citizens. I apologize again for being, um... I have to go further, but I am convinced that today I have to present all the successes of Croatian medicine, including waiting lists, because for example yesterday we reduced the ultrasound... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] hips, waiting lists at 20% to 70%, so over the year today it's been four to six months, somewhere up to 10 months, and now it's only 60 days. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One more apology, here we go. We are witnessing the last 18 months of counter-constitutional decisions, illegal decisions and, of course, actions involving the state's attorney's office. Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43113	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Your exposure caused six replicas. ... Now, fellow Shuker, don't throw it out of the bench first because you can't speak until it gives you the chairman's word. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] That's right. Now you're looking for a word of what? On behalf of the club. [[Intruder: In the name of the club.]] Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43114	Look, if I can't get a word in the name of the club, then I'll be looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43115	You got a word on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43116	Mr. Ostojić, this doesn't work for you as Ranka Stojić, it goes as Minister of Health. This is extremely rude, otherwise you're a very decent man. And this is extremely rude what you're doing right now. [[Thank you very much.]] You came here,... Excuse me, excuse me, please. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You came here, you gave us a lesson, you didn't answer any specific questions, you told your truth, the PR story, I respect that. But if you're going to come here, to give parliamentary counsel a lesson and then go, it's rude. But it's just... [[Stupid: A colleague, a colleague of Shuker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43117	Comrade Shuker, let's get back to the Rules of Procedure. Let's go back, I thought you might say one sentence, two, but you can't argue out of line like this now. If you want, I'll set a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43118	I can only say one sentence then.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43119	But say one sentence.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43120	Here's a sentence, Mr. Chairman, I expected you to react, given that you didn't react, you couldn't let anyone come here and teach parliamentary counsel and then cowardly escape.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43121	First of all, first of all, I had no reason to react, the minister came forward to discuss the agenda item for which he is responsible, and here we have a deputy minister who replaces him, so it's all within the framework of the Rules of Procedure. I would have broken the Rules of Procedure if I'd done anything other than what you're suggesting to me, especially to teach the Minister some lessons. The minister came here, I think he gave a very substantial speech and explained, apologized to the MPs and MPs because he has obligations, has obligations. Ministerial obligations to attend a meeting of the European Union Health Ministers. I think that's a good enough reason not to give him a lesson and not call him. ... Minister, the Minister is to you, to you,... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Ministers, Ministers, Ministers, you can't speak now, you can respond to replicas, [[You can't hear the intruder.]] You can respond to the replicas if you want to. [[I'm sorry, I'm sorry.]] The first one was answered by the respected Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43122	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, nothing, I was thinking the same thing when Mr. Minister came to talk about the essence of health care, about health problems, about answering all those questions that the deputy minister certainly wrote down. I agree with my colleague Shuker that what he did is certainly not an honor to him either, because then he shouldn't have come, he shouldn't have shown up. It reminds me a little of the apparition that came to show that he was present, that we had the honor of visiting us, and so he had so much courage here to say a few sentences, 3 minutes was his long exposure. Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, when I spoke 3 minutes of exposure, he did not talk about the measure of things he spoke about himself in the EPP, the book, etc. He wasn't talking about anything we discussed here. You interrupted me, you said colleague Vuksic don't talk about the measure of things. This is another underestimation of the Croatian Parliament and this relationship with the Parliament is shameful so that it is no longer necessary to call on ministers, we can discuss without a minister for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43123	The next line is the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43124	Thank you very much. These are now some new rules in this House, a replica of the spirit. But since the Prime Minister Mr Milanovic tried to explain to us who was a member of the government on the last current morning, asking for a failure of the Rules of Procedure. Now it's no longer clear to me, at the time he claimed that the deputies were not members of the government, but that they were ministers and that deputies couldn't answer questions. Now comes the minister and says he's respected, don't read the Rules of Procedure, let the Rules of Procedure go, I'm saying what the Prime Minister was saying here. Therefore, at first we apologized to Mr. Deputy to him personally, and not even as a deputy, but we simply thought the minister would come here, but I honestly expected when he came, he showed up for 3 minutes as I don't know who, the great health guru I expected to answer my specific questions where I quoted articles from the Law on the implementation of the state budget. I didn't expect fairy tales because believe me, if my colleague Linic were me, he'd ask the exact same question. So the two of us here agree completely, and the finance ministers will never talk about it differently, I just want to paraphrasise how real these issues are and how lifelike and how much health minister is running away from them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43125	One little explanation. We're not on the current morning, so the Deputy Minister has a right to... So that's how we have the Rules of Procedure, and we can't do it after the Rules of Procedure. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Well, I have to explain. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Third replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43126	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'm a little embarrassed to tell you, I feel a little uncomfortable about this situation. If I were the minister, I think he should have listened at least to these replicas at his exposure and then gone, but okay. I wanted to say that the minister offered his book, thank you Minister for the book. You don't need my book or his or any of us. The minister should say that for the exercise of the right that the Croatian law gives to citizens of the Croatian and Split regions, for the exercise of these rights should be spent monthly at the Split hospital 70 million kuna and that for these 70 million kunas for the consumption of these kunas, it is not even the doctors that started it, I am very sorry Mr. Cain, spit on doctors, that they have some houses. Well, there are 200,000 illegal houses in Croatia that need to be legalized and maybe what I know about 500,000 houses. And only in Croatia are 13,000 doctors. So enough spitin' on, if there's nothing better to say then keep your mouth shut. He's not here. It's not even the principal's fault, it's partly like a single doctor who owns a house, it can be the director of some and the principal's fault in part or in part. But that is not the essence of the problem, the main problem is that the Croatian law has given Croatian citizens the right to consume their rights and there is no director who can challenge those rights or may challenge them. There is no doctor who can and does not have a doctor who can challenge his rights because he is responsible for death and goes to prison. Both the director and the doctor must ensure the right that the law gives to every citizen of Croatia. We don't have enough money in the healthcare system to pay for all the rights that the state gives him. We are playing with children's affairs and we need to clear up to the Croatian people once, go to the people and say it, we can do this and we need it like this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43127	Thank you. Next replica, dear colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43128	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's the minister gone, I'm sorry, but here's the deputy who's coming from the Czech hospital, so Mr. Cesarik, and I'm very glad he's here. So when the minister spoke of hospital debts due to poor hospital management, I wanted to tell him but then he corrected himself and said not all of them were because the požega-slavonian hospital in Požega-Slavon County, so the county hospital is one hospital that has been profitable for years. When problems arose, a year ago when the Government of the Republic of Croatia reduced the total revenues by 4% and then the hot hospital came into trouble. So I wanted to say that it is the responsibility of the director, of course, but not all of us are guilty, but we have just come into trouble in Požega-slavonska County for the reason that total revenues have been reduced. So the Czech hospital has spent savings at all levels and has no longer been able and the government is reducing 4% of the total income, so of course you're getting into trouble. It's not the hospital's fault, it's the government's decision to cut the total funds, and that's why she's in rehab today, and otherwise she shouldn't be in rehab, so he'd be wondering why she came into that position at all. She shouldn't have, but here's where she is. And the headmaster's been there for years, which is an excellent hospital manager, and that's an indication that this hospital worked in conditions when it had the funds of the regular ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43129	Dear MPs and MPs, it is our honor to welcome their Imperial Highness Prince and Princess Akishino who are staying for an official visit to the Republic of Croatia. We're going back to work. [[Applause.]] A respected counterpart, Darko Milinovic, also reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43130	Here I hope the prince and princess weren't here when he was minister, because such as was not seen in the Croatian Parliament as far as I know, but the great colleagues who were here for a long time that the minister came in for three minutes and left and didn't say anything. He didn't say anything. You heard that Gospić's House of Health is under recovery, here's what he said, and he didn't say that HZZO owes Gospić 4 and a half million kuna to the House of Health. And he didn't say he couldn't close down the missus hospital, and now he's trying to shut down the lady's dialysis. Well, he didn't say here that the missus hospital wasn't in the process. But let's let Gospić go, let's let go of the home of health, he can't go without like and without me. I'll send him a picture of him there when he wakes up to see me. He left because there's no answer to any questions, so he left. If the minister could make a political point here today, it means that this law is good he would have been here to postpone all his obligations and ultimately the minister is the one who in some way conditions when there will be a point of the agenda here in the Parliament. If he had a commitment today, he could have asked the President of the Parliament, and that would have been appreciated, that this item of the agenda should be tomorrow or Monday. So the exclusive responsibility of why the minister isn't here today is because he wanted to be that point of the agenda today, so he can't be, and he's not here because there's no answer to any single question. He may have been afraid that I would ask him what they were asking him from the Association of Croatian Patients, and remember he said he would improve co-operation with patient associations. We haven't got a single answer to the question. Then he answered the question. Then it was the Association of Patients who called for cooperation to thank you for all our answers, memos and suggestions neatly received but neatly and refused. There's no answer minister to any single question, and he's better off gone than bein' blasphemy around here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43131	Time. Thank you. The last line is the esteemed colleague Branko Boxti.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43132	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So as you said from a very content speech, I am interested in it, or we have a statement from Mr. Minister that he is not looking at directors by party membership, but by their success in the work. I'd like to be given an answer in which way and how the director of the Zadar hospital was removed. Sometime. Since we know that we have other hospitals that belong to that category, let's say in Pula, Varazdin, Čakovec, and the Holy Spirit in Zagreb, which is why the directors of these hospitals have not been replaced, Sisak well. Which is why the directors of these hospitals have not been removed, and the devil happens to be the director of Zadar County, or from our hospital, has been removed, and claims before party membership matters. So that's how he denied himself obviously.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43133	Now we're moving on to an individual debate of 10 minutes. First, the Honorable Vice President of the House, Zeljko Reiner, signed up for debate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43134	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, I will not, of course, comment on this little moment of event that happened a few minutes ago. I don't have anything else to call it, it's an event. I'm sorry, of course, that there are no ministers, because I'm going to try to make a few constructive remarks that I know are pointless, because it's first and second reading, an emergency procedure, and I know that such a law will be passed as it is. However, I think it is always good to point out something that can be improved, repaired or made better. Before that, however, I think I should say something, because more colleagues mentioned it, including the Minister of Rehabilitation himself, and it has, of course, direct ties to this because in the assessment of the funds needed to implement the law, it says that it will be of neutral effect on the state budget of the Republic of Croatia or translated that nothing will cost taxpayers any more. It's clear to everyone that it's not true. However, I want to make it very clear once again about the recovery. No matter how much money was given for that recovery, it was coming up with billions. And the minister mentioned 7 billion, 5 billion, and further, however much money was given to resuscitate hospitals, believe me, nothing system unfortunately will help. Because unfortunately, in a year and a half, no one has literally made any of the only systematic changes that have been promised and that have been talked about and announced so much, and that would really require the system to be balanced and that it can spend as much as it has available. Not a single one, I repeat, from the systematic changes that are necessary and necessary has been made. And what will happen after so-called. Recoveries will be next. The only thing that's happened is that according to the party likeness, new restitution managers have been put in place. They will believe me and you can also check me in half a year or in a year to find yourself in the same position as the previous directors were, because the costs exceed the revenues, because it's immune to a system that hasn't been changed, and the same people who were appointed so by the party key will either be replaced. Of course that won't happen, there'll be 101 excuses but that's true, that's true, and from that truth, unfortunately, no one can escape. Now, maybe we should talk about what's the measure of things, and these are certain articles of this law, although I repeat it again, it's pointless to talk about it because it's going to be passed anyway. Article 21 states that the insured person has the right to exercise the burden of the institution medicinal products established by the basic and supplementary list of medicinal products under the conditions and in the manner laid down by the general laws. I want to make it clear to you what's going on right now, and it's about the recovery. Thus, it will be rescheduled with €2.53 billion from the Croatian Health Insurance Institute. Since the Croatian Health Insurance Institute is starting to transfer, reroute costs to health care institutions, mostly hospitals, of course after it is being rescheduled, it will not create new losses but it has been transferred to hospitals and hospitals will be making even more losses because here and now, two and three days ago in the new list of medicines, for example, significant expensive medicines have disappeared from the list of particularly expensive medicines that HZZ has been paying above the hospital budget and they are now on the burden of the hospital. Only one medicine in one single Croatian hospital will mean that one million kunas of larger dubiosis in the clinic. And every two to three months in the last year and a half, hospital budgets have been cut. So the money's getting smaller, and more and more costs are being transferred from HZZ to hospitals. Of course, when HZZO is recovered, of course, he will no longer make losses, but the losses under quotes will create hospitals. I very clearly also want to tell stories about 60 days are fairy tales because this same HZZO has already signed contracts with suppliers for 180 days. So, what 60 days are we talking about? There's no talking about it. The second thing that I think is important is Article 34. Article 34 which speaks of why it does not provide compulsory health insurance. So I'm not going to talk about whether really breast reconstruction after mastectomy and aesthetic reconstruction after severe injuries doesn't fall into that, so we can all have our own opinions about it. I'd personally think it should belong. However, health care used by passing the established list of orders and now we're here on that real thing. So, you'll be able to translate over waiting lists for those who have money. Is that on the trail of a social democratic approach? Is that what's been declared? So whoever has the money will be able to skip the established waiting list. I'm just asking everybody a question, and then who wants to think about it? It is a very important point in Article 93 where it is said that the director of the contracted health care person, or even contracted healthcare worker of private practice, is the head of even the establishment unit in the health care institution, so the heads of the department, are obliged to provide the insured persons with health care and are responsible for the non-intentional spending of funds, etc. And they reduce the budget every two to three months. So how can I answer? Well, they can't influence that. That one of us, every two to three months, has a drastic pay cut and then is said to live by the same standard as you used to be. Well, of course that's impossible. Therefore, it is again a transfer of responsibility to doctors, directors, etc. By the way, be nomotechnically catastrophic. In law, in a proposal for a new law that will come before this Assembly these days, the new Health Protection Act is talking about resuscitators. Because now they're the ones who run all the facilities practically, and here they're only talking about directors. In this bill of law, there is no mention of any renaissance managers who, in fact, are now in real life now and for the next two years, will be run by all institutions. How well it's done and it's talking about it. The Governing Council of the HZZO shall consist of 9 members appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the Minister in charge of health, and shall be present as two representatives of the insured persons of the Institute. So now the minister chooses out of 4 million people two representatives of the insured. They will certainly be very objective and will certainly represent all citizens and their rights. Then two representatives of healthcare providers, again the minister elects two health workers. You are also very objective and will strongly represent the interests of healthcare professionals, etc., etc. Therefore, another very important thing that needs to be said clearly, and these are provisions that speak about the fact that HZZO will not only monitor the performance of the contract obligations of health institutions but will actually have control over the overall operation of the contract entity. Now, if HZZO is an insurance company, and institutions are a health partner who provides services and HZZO buys some services from its health care partner so that one partner can have absolute authority and control over another partner in all respects, from staff issues to all expensive, it is now a practice to understand each other. They are now doing so outside the law, and now the law will grant them that which is completely illogical because one partner cannot and must never control the entire business of another partner. For this there are legally prescribed procedures, there are legally prescribed bodies, etc. The HZZO could only control the exclusive aspect of whether contractual obligations are implemented in full scope, adequate scope, prices etc. So there's a whole series of things that could objectively be asked questions, but anyway, whatever we're saying here, we don't have any questions to ask, nor will the bill change, so here's what actually serves as an expression of its own frustration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43135	Thank you, too. Three reported replicas. First honorary colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43136	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Reiner, you were talking about the recovery, but it's very interesting that people from the government, whether it's the Minister of Finance, the Minister of Health, or whatever it is they're doing to who they're chasing, they're pulling how they fit. First of all, they're talking about the recovery of county hospitals and I think we're talking about the recovery of county hospitals in this House, and that's what a billion kuna is planned for in the budget. But neither this law nor those laws had previously been resolved in the principle that we were solving something that we practically created ourselves, which is that you impose a level and a level of cost on someone and you do not provide them with income. And in most of the county hospitals, it's a down payment. However, it's very interesting that this second recovery, which I honestly say here after 4 hours, is actually 3.5 hours 4 hours of debate, I still don't know if it's 5 billion or whether it's 3.5 billion or what the actual minus is in hospitals. But what you mentioned, and it offered me a debate, which is that many hospital directors have already signed, in fact, HZO signed contracts with drug suppliers for 180 days. Now the pharmaceutical houses will get at least that's how the finance minister says 3.2 billion kuna. Did the state get that kind of discount and what does this 180-day contract mean and payment within 60 days is it going to be cheaper drugs? Because every price of capital costs so probably pharmacists who are very well-accounted for are probably some things calculated, so then it's very interesting what the answer to that is going to be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43137	The replica corresponds to Vice President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43138	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I, of course, asked that question exactly what you said, and what more colleagues said today at the end. It is one concept of a recovery behind which a series of things is completely non-transparent where we do not know what money is owed by Croatian taxpayers who are in charge because they were claimed to be remedied, first of all foreign borrowing, then it is claimed to be in debt with Croatian banks, we do not know which amount is in charge, because they really mention sums of 5 billion, 2.53 billion for HZZO, 1.1 billion for county hospitals, and then suddenly some task for 3.3 billion, etc. So obviously there's a lot of things being said. No one clearly answered that question that we all asked, which is what the real debt is with a certain day, of course, because it's also being manipulated with a long or negative balance to say it from the 31.12 last year, and we're now at the end of the 6th month. And therefore, in those six months, a very large debt was created. What's gonna happen to them is nobody knows. So there's a lot of strangers out there, and there's no answer from anywhere. And that's why I'm going to repeat my claim that I've already said here a few times, unfortunately since no single structural change in the Croatian health system has been made, and it really needs to be done, only a new debt is going to be created, and then it's going to go back to billions that are one way or another, and then it's going to be explained by the fact that it's going to be one expression that was used here in this House completely inappropriately in some black hole of health, and none of it's a black hole, that's all the things that doctors and nurses gave to patients, it's just a question whether or not we've provided adequate resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43139	Thank you. We're moving on with the replicas. Dear colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43140	My dear colleague Reiner, you said at the end of your debate a sentence that reads, and it doesn't matter what you're talking about here in the Parliament. So I disagree with you, we don't talk for ourselves, we don't tell our colleagues. We represent the citizens here and we speak precisely for the sake of the citizens and for the good that you have spoken because you have spoken constructively and it makes sense to speak in the Parliament and our mission is to speak, interpret, fight for what we promised in the pre-election campaign to the citizens. You said in your debate at the beginning of the debate that the Sanitary Director of County Hospitals would soon find themselves in the position their predecessors were in because the costs exceed their revenues. That's right. Just because there are no structural changes, structural changes are needed because, in fact, a single optical trick has been made now, ours has come to replace these, but you know very well that it was also done when you were in power, that they were also coming. Remember that there was even one sentence, we set up the directors we trust. That's what former health minister Mr. Hebrang said, I don't know if he said in the position of the health minister I mostly remember his debate in the Parliament itself. We have appointed the directors we trust and who will implement our program, that is a sentence I can even find for you. So not much practice has changed, it's wrong. This means that this government should make those mistakes that were made before, which were made during Racan’s government and those governments before that. What's most important is what we mentioned in health care needs structural changes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43141	The replica matches the vice president of the House of Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43142	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic so I agree with you I may have wanted to express my frustration said it makes no sense. Of course it makes sense, and I hope that at least a fraction of what we've been discussing all morning without the minister present, without any response from the ruling, etc., at least a fraction will reach the public. Because of course we are here because of Croatian citizens, they sent us here, in the best belief that we will represent their interests. That's why we're talking here, of course. Whether others who should also represent their water interests on this account is another question, and they should probably answer themselves, their conscience, and then the voters who chose them. But the other thing you mentioned I just pointed out because it doesn't matter, I don't even think it's that important in which the party is the new reassurance managers. I know they're all in one party or another, which are ruling parties. It's much more important that they just their parties will bring them into no, no exit position, because since no structural changes have been made, they will find themselves in a situation, I say again very quickly in 6 months, I believe even before the end of this year and in... The spring of next year that will simply create new losses and in these new losses will no longer justify what, to keep them going. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then you will invent some reason, quite certainly, I am convinced that they remain still because now circumstances are somewhat dramaticly different than they were a year or two earlier. But actually that's true, they're going to find themselves in, what the people would say to unguarded grapes, and they're going to find those who named them because they put them by similarity, and they actually did them one bear favor because they didn't solve the fundamental question, and that's the functioning of the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43143	The third and last line is respected colleague Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43144	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so Mr. Reiner here today we've been discussing the health situation, perhaps more than just the law that is in front of us today. We were talking about debts, we were talking about basically facts that were. And precisely because of the truth and because of citizens, it should be stressed that the situation in health care is very difficult. However, also because of the truth towards the citizens, it should be mentioned that the limitations in hospitals are actually spent on salaries, when you look at duty, alertness, were accounted for under a collective contract which, in the period of transition, was signed by your gentleman, the minister from your government when it was actually accounted for by 50% more expensive and, of course, a debt such as that was created in half a year, so that debt was created at 430 million kuna. Therefore, it is not that, if debt had been created now, we are also talking about whether structural changes had not occurred, structural changes have begun, it is a process, however, it would have been good if the government had come to this and had started to make structural changes rather than doing debts like these now. And what's happened now, when the collective contract has become worthless, now there's got to be a reduction in pay extras, I'm not saying that health care workers are paid well, but what's happening now. Now it's actually happening that they have to reduce exactly these supplements to doctors and nurses. Therefore, debts are generated by some of the bad moves of the previous government at a bad time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43145	The replica matches the esteemed Željko Reiner, vice president of the House.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43146	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, so dear colleagues, so first of all, it's a spin which is now very conveniently created in one of your sheltered newspapers a few days ago when we read that the problem is actually that doctors and nurses got these bonuses a year and a half ago, so now it's suddenly before this law was passed at once, and before this, or by making this decision of the county court, it's suddenly been discovered that they have a slightly higher salary than they had over a year and a half ago, I stress more than a year and a half ago. And that the problem is finance in Croatian health. Well, you and I both know it's not like that at all. Of course that's not the case, of course, that the problem of Croatian health is that no structural changes were made, you didn't even start what you said, so... You don't start because I don't know any structural change that we've discussed here and that would really start and be at least in a year, two or three brings some benefits, so you don't start and that's one of the basic problems. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But the fact is that what's a significant percentage of the hospital's budget goes to pay is not a big problem. The problem is why this budget is not bigger, why this budget decreases every two to three months. And in doing so, no one, no one's going to make real structural changes or tell the citizens if that's your government's position and then tell the citizens that you want to deny them some rights. Of course you're not gonna do that, but then the doctors and nurses accuse themselves of making their pay. It's spin and it's not right. Because it's not, it's not the doctor's salary that causes this severe financial state of health. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43147	Thank you, too. We're continuing an individual debate. So I give the word to my esteemed colleague, Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43148	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, in the course of the debate, we've heard almost everything. And I wouldn't want to repeat myself so I might not be able to use that right for 10 minutes. And I'm still under the impression of a Japanese prince and princess visiting. And I really want to say that if it's to judge by their extension of life span, it's for sure and the health system allows it. And perhaps there are representatives of those who are doing better in their parliament for the rights of users. Today we are also discussing united these three laws and this implementation of the Drug Precursor Regulation we are co-author in that part. Although we have different thoughts in some way we can't accept what kind of light interpretation that easy drugs are so it's certainly not a good approach, especially today when we see that the threshold of youth and alcoholism and everything is unfortunately moving down. Of course, in this part of foreign health care, and we agree that, I don't believe there were any objections and there would be no difficulty in accepting it. Moreover, the PZE law itself, which speaks of cross-border health care, the implementation of this Regulation 24 of 2011 would certainly not have caused such attention and that Regulation 863 would also not have caused it. In that part, we were certainly in agreement with the implementation of the one planned where there is a need for the approval of HZZO and urgent needs regarding that health care. But as it turned out in this law, it turned out in the end that it was a matter of such an important and fundamental law that it was inadmissible to come to the debate that such an important law was implemented without a public debate in a way that came here today with a committee session, and then we remember in 2008 when the law was passed how long a public debate was conducted and nearly 10,000 people participated in this public debate and which carried out so, and we all swear on available and quality health care. Of course, each of us noticed certain shortcomings in this law, so that they should simply experience attention and be discussed in some way. In that part, I was already talking in replicas about orthopaedic aids that have already been reduced by the rules so far, which is what we witness on a daily basis, especially a person with disabilities and everything else. But here it is now proposed to introduce a basic and additional list of orthopedic and other aids and additional dental aids in such a way that the additional list of these aids contains an aid, etc. So it simply leads to the conclusion that those whose impact on the standard is extremely large, and they need, of course, the same quality health care you promised. There is no other, accessible and quality health care will have to, nor is voluntary health insurance regulated, and now they will have to allocate additional funds for that. I think it's unacceptable and it's inadmissible that it should be very clearly repeated here. Another thing that certainly falls into the eyes, which is that sickness or temporary incompetence to work. Well, we said that whoever's in charge of determining temporary inability to work, but it bothers this when he says it is expected to increase the responsibility of the selected doctor in determining the temporary inability of the insurance company to work that is obliged to adhere to guidelines, medical criteria. So I'm asking what the doctors have been holding on to so far, so what? Well, it's not some kind of, uh, aromatherapy rule. It's guidance and everything. And indeed in that part of the chamber, unless the opinion of the chamber which made 15 remarks is respected, that is not good. It is certainly not good, and it is certainly not good for doctors who are exposed to large controls, from the rate of sickness, from the index of those different, from the consumption of medicines. These are all daily controls that every system, the one that is licensed, that follows it neatly and regularly. And so these HZZO doctors follow regularly and regularly. Well, it's just frustrating for doctors who can't just work under these circumstances, they have to keep track. Here you see, a short time ago, I said what happened when the stewardesses that work under these circumstances ended up on sick leave the second day. And the other thing, we have to mention another very important moment, and that's protection at work. In addition to having so many unemployed, we have protection at work is the same missing, and if we say that we are the first in Europe by the number of disabled workers, I think that says enough for himself. And in these circumstances, now that this doctor who determines this temporary inability to work, to deal with all of this is indeed a great difficulty and a great problem, and you can see the movements of that pain, etc. Surely this is a very difficult and difficult moment for both work and treatment. And the third thing I have noticed, it is said here that preventive checks are being introduced for persons over 65 years in Article 82. So so far it's been in article 63, I don't see those needs, why, did it need anything more mentioned that there's someone more material, it's been so far, here's exactly what I can do to make it very clear that it's about that. And not to mention that those who have been introduced during the time of Minister Milinović and MAMA and the discovery of... rectal cancer certainly contributed greatly to prevention. I believe that this is not a good way to go so quickly and without discussing such an important problem, an important problem, a segment of life which is a health care that is said to be available and quality health care. This way it's not possible and it won't be possible. I think we should also respect the opinion of the users of the Association of patients who address us almost daily with their queries and of course those who are in serious financial difficulties here think of the Croatian party of pensioners who did not report on this problem that I tried to provoke them about. And in that sense, of course, it's not possible to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43149	Thank you. Mr. Zeljko Reiner, the vice president of the Parliament first rises to this presentation of yours. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, dear fellow Milinkovic, you've actually noticed that this prevention thing is nothing new, but it's not, there's a lot of things that aren't new, and those that are new are not very happy. However, in addition to what was recognised by MP Šimac-Bonačić, she said earlier, arguing that structural changes should be introduced and gradually, etc. This was just an ideal opportunity, so the new Health Insurance Act. Where you'll get a better chance after a year and a half of power. So it could be fantasticly done, thought it out, come up with, conceptually solved, etc. and come up with, therefore, the structural changes that we all agree on in Croatia's healthcare. Instead, we didn't get anything. I really expected that if we are not already going to change the existing law only the adaptation related to our entry into the EU is far too late, etc. But if there is a new law in it, it will be everything that was actually thought to change in Croatian health care. We didn't get anything. Let's say there's no mention of a basket of services, medical services at all. Croatian citizens today do not know what they must receive as part of compulsory health insurance and within what deadlines they must earn, and what they do not have to get or cannot get. It's a total stranger. There are some floscules in some rules about it, but actually not exactly said. Secondly, the system works so that the Croatian Health Insurance Office determines the prices and he says I have so much money and I will pay that service to the hospital so much. Whether the hospital may be spending double or triple money objectively obtaining re-promaterials etc. For that, it doesn't matter. He pays so much and of course the hospital will then come to a loss, and that is a key problem that should have been solved, but not solved by this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43151	Thank you, too. Another replica is respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43152	Dear Mr. Milinkovic, you said one finding that is so amazing at first sight, which is the first for the number of disabled workers in Europe. Now you have to wonder why we're first? Remember the name Lazar Gruic, who is the head of one party and who was supposed to be in a wheelchair 15 years ago for which he retired and retired at 40 and a few years ago. It's an example because he's a fellow politician, so you can talk about him, so they wrote all the newspapers about it. But I think there was no consequences. We've got a lot of Dr. Rubal. A lot of disability has been bought, you know that. And secondly, I totally agree with you, we have a poor job protection. And we're doing nothing on the first point, so after a deal by those who have done crime for 15, 20 and more years, when disability could have been bought for a few thousand marks and damaged the Croatian state by billions if everything is summed up. All those who are fake disabled and retired get a pension, don't work, not full fund, just looking for money, so we're first. Because it does not fall to EU countries to buy and not sanction disabled people. And I think it's a much easier part of what you said protection at work, that it's much easier to fix than this, than to fake people with disabilities because the rule of law in Croatia doesn't work.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43153	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43154	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I wouldn't be here to talk about fake people with disabilities or names. That's why institutions who do their job, who need to and bring the word that it is. But there is a disabled woman in the part I was talking about, so also with regard to protection at work, quality protection at work that is much more necessary to do. Of course, it is also necessary to strengthen the overall contribution to human health and social circumstances in life. Because if there's no social security, then there's health, of course, at risk. Of course, often some of the names of some doctors are mentioned, and then the whole profession is trying to get into one way, as they're all bad. Honorary doctors, nuns work in Croatia. This minister of ours says brilliant people who are responsible for doing their job under difficult circumstances and many of these things overlap over their backs, they're the ones who have to tell them when they come looking for a health care service here, you see it's like that, of course, and on the other hand they say you have rights like this and like this. That's a lot of patient associations, and I think we should hear their opinion anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43155	Thank you, too. Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43156	Thank you. Dear colleague, you have actually encouraged me in one part of your debate and on the obligations that doctors have in their work, and the fact that doctors in Croatia today are buried with so many bureaucratic jobs that they have less and less time to do what they have actually been trained for and what their primary task is to do, which is to devote themselves to the patient and to treating and helping patients. However, I think that not only this law but generally in Croatia is one big problem, I hope that this will change with Croatia's entry into the EU. It is a problem of HZZO monopoly which has in the course of negotiations with all doctors and institutions in the Republic of Croatia. It is indisputable, no one can therefore deny and dispute, that any healthcare entity in Croatia is in a position to take or leave while negotiating with HZZO. No partner relationship. They are brought into situations even the founders of health institutions, so in this case I think of the county, when it comes to health homes or General County hospitals, that when someone decides by order of the Ministry of Health to reduce certain funds or certain restrictions then it is either principle or take or leave whatever the consequences will ultimately have on the financial operations of these health institutions. I hope that once we join the EU that something will change as we have now witnessed about this current. As soon as competition appears then it is shown that some things can be much more favourable than is shown to all Croatian citizens. When the HZZO monopoly is resolved in the contract for healthcare entities here, then I think that for Croatian citizens as well as for health care, there will be something easier and better times. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43157	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43158	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Buric, I am pleased that this debate finally brought up the moment to mention both doctors and those working in that system and such a difficult and responsible job. Maybe a year ago, it best illustrates the opinion of a colleague of a family doctor who said it was her job to be a lower HZZO operator. That's what he says best in favor of this. Lower HZZO operator. He's so much in this part of all of these obligations today, of course, because he doesn't have a partner relationship like you said, I agree with you in that part, of all obligations, so follow up what I was saying to the consumption index like this or like that. All of this, of course, is needed in the spirit of saving, but it certainly limits in some way. So this one, too, is this provision that is particularly emphasized here, which has bothered me about determining the temporary inability to work. So, given certain, they are authorized to do so, but there must be such control that, of course, violates autonomy, and the Croatian medical chamber in this sense has something to say and said but it was not heard, there was no hearing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43159	Thank you, too. We're continuing the debate. Ivan Shuker, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43160	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. So here after the minister appeared here and told us that everything was wonderful and wonderful, that he wrote a book in Croatian and English, that he would share it in Brussels, I sincerely hope that he would not prescribe the solution and the problems of Croatian health but today I expected that colleagues who are medical professions would speak more about this law, not just colleagues from the opposition but also from the ruling coalition. And I also think that when we talk about this law that first of all we have to talk about its fiscal effect. For the simple reason that health care has been loosing for years. I also tried through replicas today to provoke both the minister and his deputy to hear the answer to two questions. How much of this kind of health care system does it cost and how much do we get income based on positive legal regulations? And then we can talk about this law is he good, is he bad? And since we've been hearing about the resolutions over the past few months, then it would be logical to say in this law what changes these resolutions make when they're implemented that this law will not create new losses. And then you could tell me that it's the right thing to do and then it wouldn't even matter if the minister was there after the first 15 minutes or he left, but since we haven't heard the answer to those questions, unfortunately this law won't change anything. This law will not valorize the problem of doctors, nurses, but today some praise how they will reduce their wages. give them a show to all those who will be able to go to work for bigger money in the EU. But my colleagues and colleagues, I'd like to discuss two articles here. One article is Article 83, Article 63, article no matter what number it was, but it is an article that hurts a lot, and it also hurts like every citizen of the Republic of Croatia for the reasons that the provisions of this Article 63 are paid out of tax revenue. According to the old article 63, it weighed about 3.5, and this new article in 83 will not weigh less than 3.5 or 4 billion kuna. So, what is the matter with Article 63? This is about certain rights of those who, on this or that basis, do not practically pay a health contribution and simply and health services for them or other health services should be paid from the state budget. And the logical thing is if someone adopts the law and says it and it will be paid for those who do not pay a health contribution to ensure it in the state budget as well. And when you look at the analogy of Article 82 and Article 163, you will see that the projections of the state budget for 2014 are not in accordance with this law. Why? Because Article 163 shows that from now on, contributions will be paid to the fund will no longer be revenues from the state budget. automatically reduce the revenue of the state budget for that amount. This year, it's supposed to be around 16 billion kuna, increasing income or the financial plan of HZZO or where it's going to be. However, colleagues and colleagues, then the real problem of Article 63 arises. Why does the real problem of Article 63 arise? Because now you have the total cost of health care, on the one hand you have, on the other hand, the income from the contributions that are summed up with all the other revenues, and that's 100 and so many billion kunas, and these expenditures are in the amount of 120 and so many billion kunas. However, at the time of application of Article 163 of that Article, this revenue of 16 billion will be the income of this fund or of the HZZO and the obligations under Article 82 of the Finance Minister will have to be secured on the spending side of the state budget. Then it won't be able to be in the mass anymore but it'll have to be calculated exactly there. And that is why, in this bill, it is ridiculous for us to have the proposer to explain these all financial provisions of the law in such a way and not even technically but superficially in two sentences, because this article 82th will be a very large expenditure side of the state budget in the coming periods. Why? Well, because we're going to have to secure this part from tax revenues. The second thing, given that contributions from health care and what policy this government is and have a tension of further reduction on the spending side of the state budget will also need to be provided for that part of the funds to cover the expenditures of the state budget. And here I want to say something openly that I have said since the first day the Health Contribution Act was passed this 2.5 billion have been thrown into the wind. Why? That's why 2.5 billion 200 and a few other health contributions just aren't... it's too little money. That when on the pile is a large amount, however, those 2.5 billion cost Croatian citizens an increase in VAT from 23% to 25%. And ask any businessmen no one will tell you that it has any financial effect positive and that it has opened up any new job or investment that was intended but 2.5 billion have gone into the wind. However, this Article 82 and Article 163 are something that will change very much the picture of the state budget the moment this law begins to apply. And that's something that's not negligible, and that's what the Proposer has to do with this High House's Rules of Procedure at the point I think it's 3. Write and explain when it comes to the necessary funds because if you say you'll take 16 billion kunas from the budget and put them somewhere else, and you'll have to provide the budget with the funds in accordance with Article 82. then this law has a significant impact on what the state budget will look like in a year and a few more days. So that's what the Proposer told me that there's no change and that it won't affect, it's going to affect very well how you wrote that it's going to affect it, not me. You wrote Article 82 and Article 163 and you had to explain it. And as for these recoverys, look, colleagues and colleagues often like to conduct here bickering transparency, intransparency one way or another, but it's unthinkable for me to think that someone's going to talk about getting rid of something with three billion and something else, and that they're going to be in charge of the domestic financial market and there's not a single document covering it. So you in the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget have the precise definition of how much government debt can be owed and why this debt will be used. Also two or three articles after that, you have exactly how many countries will provide guarantees. Why? Well, as you can see in the case of shipbuilding, these guarantees, unfortunately, have increased public debt. Every guarantee is a risk. You give someone a guarantee that means if he can't repay that loan that guarantee will be charged from the state budget. So there is no provision in any of this article on the implementation of the state budget, so the provision of state guarantees is an article 31a on how much debt you can have, exactly three paragraphs, is Article 26, where among other things it is dismembered as many non-profit users, and here you think of Croatian water, Croatian roads and even HZZO no such data anywhere. So much for the transparency about drilling into your chest that someone's protecting someone's mess. If anyone can talk about this mess, I could talk about what I've been cleaning up since 2004. And yet today state finances seem a little longer but they wouldn't talk about it. And you wouldn't be talking about recovery. Why? Because we'll all agree that the resolution should be done, so that's something that's not controversial. But we'd all like to know how much that recovery costs and whether it's really the last recovery and whether this law prevents any next recovery. Why? Well, because the previous governments have done and rehabilitated shipbuilding and health care, so it's nothing new and it doesn't have to attack this government now why it does it, but it has to do it in a way that is clear and transparent and not past this High House because this behavior today, the minister best shows that the government is experiencing you both as ruling and opposition. We'll do whatever you want, and these political forces have to vote for it. The best example is HSU's sorry to say this, but it is very interesting that they are not interested in the fact that they have not spoken a word about this article, and three or four years ago, their colleague Hrelja was quite loud about this article 63. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43161	Time. Thank you. We've registered three replicas. First responds Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43162	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. Well, you said exactly that, unfortunately, here all morning we're talking, mostly to ourselves, and we haven't heard how much health care costs or how much income that healthcare could be financed. However, what I would like to make very clear once again to everyone because you mentioned the question of whether the health care recovery is actually going to get some new quality and whether it will be the last recovery, then it will be clear that it will not, will not be, in any case, the last recovery because the more we have said did not make those structural changes that should have been made. So the losses are piling up. The difference between income and expenditure is increasing every day. We're trying to cut it down. The attempts come down to the fact that the monopolies, the Croatian Health Insurance Institute, reduces every one so much to hospitals primarily, I speak from this aspect especially but also the primary health care price of their services. Here's a recent even 30% reduction in what we call DTS, so some price paid primarily to hospitals, I speak from that aspect, especially but also the primary health care price of their services. Here's a recent even 30% reduction in what we call DTS, so some kind of price paid to hospitals is 30%. Simply reduced by a unilateral HZZO decision. ... for individual procedures, diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, it is also reduced. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Hospital budgets are reduced at average speeds every two to three months. Therefore, for the same services, the same range of services, since, of course, Croatia has not lost part of its population at one time, nor have people become healthy at one time, they are equally ill, they need hospitals, doctors, etc., so for the same range of services, each so reduces the financing of hospitals, primary health care, etc. Of course the lack of money will be seen. [[Intruder: It's time.]] And of course this isn't going to be the last recovery because it's not really a recovery, it's a patching up of existing holes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43163	We have a reply to the replica of fellow Shucker, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43164	My colleague Reiner, I sincerely expected that today, in this Law in the House, whether they belong to the opposition or to the position, a medical profession would speak. And also that economic part of the Parliament will talk about this Law. But the key question when we talk about recovery is how much this kind of health care system costs and how much money we have provided for it. As long as the issue is not answered, the resolution will be something that will be repeated every two or three years, as far as Croatian healthcare is concerned. And it's something simple that you can't get away from. We have the best case of shipbuilding. Look, in the shipbuilding, in the recovery of this kind of aid, now that you draw a line in the past 10 or 11 years, so there's that former coalition government, and so is HDZ, and this one... about 25, 26 billion kuna, and what do we have, what is our situation today in shipbuilding? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's a disaster. There will be a tragedy for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia if, after all these recoverys, the situation in health is so. So that is something that is a key issue and what the proposer of this Law had to say today to the Croatian public above all. Saying this level of health care costs you so much and so much. But look, after such a PR story as the minister here today told this speaker it is very difficult to get the courage and tell Croatian citizens the truth. Especially after all the ballads they've been promised, and that's a key health problem. Someone will finally, and that is, above all, the minister who is responsible for it and the Prime Minister will have to tell the final truth. Until the truth is told, every recovery is a clean waste of money from Croatian citizens, i.e. taxpayers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43165	Thank you. Next replica Branko Bačić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43166	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Shuker, remember when, when the government proposed to the Croatian Parliament before the spring of last year, the state budget and two basic measures on which the revenue and expenditure side of the budget was built were an increase in VAT from 25% to 23%. From 23 to 25%. And at the same time, reducing the health insurance rate from 15% to 13%. This was explained for the reason that on the one hand, health care will have enough resources to function normally and to help entrepreneurs who will then be less isolated for, will have, will be lower labour costs. And that, on the other hand, we will make up for these funds through the increase in VAT rates because then we will make it proportionate to all citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are bonds of VAT when they take anything, buy etc. And what's an epilogue? The epilogue is the first thing that we haven't helped entrepreneurs, because, in the meantime, there have been mass layoffs, bankruptcys, the economy is on its knees. So the idea that this will significantly help entrepreneurs absolutely failed. However, we are witnessing and falling GDP and everything that is, which is, increasing the number of unemployed etc., etc., and on the other hand, healthcare is almost before collapse. Here's what, the two most important measures on which the government's economic policy was based, is what kind of epilogue would lead to. And finally, we can just say what, here's what I agree with, and that's that this won't be the last medical recovery because those health losses that have started since then and this moment as we discuss it continue. So, by the year, we're waiting for the same situation as the one that we're talking about here in the Parliament today, and that's that chronic health care is going to be missing funds and that what the government was thinking of doing just didn't work out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43167	It's time. Thank you. We have a colleague Shuker's answer, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43168	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, counterpart Bacic, we warned, however, these two decisions are the cornerstone of their economic policy. And the foundation of this economic policy is 300 and so many thousands of unemployed, but practically the second year after the row of gross domestic product, the drop in living standards, the fall in virtually everything that life means to Croatian citizens. A decent life. So the abolition, the reduction in health contribution by 2% reduced the income of 2 billion 400, 2 billion and 500 and that this provision applied in 163 would then be clearly seen, but VAT-based revenues increased 3.5 billion kuna. So we took 3.5 billion kuna directly from the Croatian citizens' pockets. It's like dragging your hand and taking every citizen so much and so much. However, this led to a decrease in consumption, and consumption was a major driver for GDP growth. This led to the reduction and the need of Croatian citizens to provide a variety of services where they simply limited themselves to what they must and the ultimate effect of it all together was the decline in the GDP economy in the last year 2.5%, the decline in consumption at an annual level of over 6%. Well, in the end, when you add that to the increase in the elemental energy, which is electricity and gas, and that automatically means the increase in electricity, then you see that this measure that was supposed to help the economy, maybe it was a good intention but some intentions, the road to hell was paved with good intentions proved disastrous for Croatian citizens. So with the increase in energy and the increase in VAT on Croatian citizens, we permanently took 6 billion kunas, not us, but this government, 6 billion kunas out of your pocket, and when you add this water, only the minister won't say so and to some kind of health-rights shagging, then you can think of the devastating measures these governments will be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43169	Thank you. And the last replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43170	Dear colleague Shuker, as a financier, you've set up one equation that's the key to everything. You said how much the health care system... should have made it clear when the minister came but in 3 minutes the self-promotion didn't get there and how much money we could raise. So when, the greatest wetland is how in practice to implement that equation, the wetness of all governments, and rarely which government manages to do it in a good way. And it's true, either they're going to fuck rights or we need to give in that equation we need to find a solution in which way. Before he said Mr. Milinovic said that he had money in health care, he probably has enough, but the money's going wrong. When you were Minister, you said the same thing about how the Minister of Finance's wish to be in charge of the domestic financial market is 3 billion kuna, but you don't know, there's no such thing in the announcement, not knowing whether it's legal or not. I'm just going to have a digression right now, when you were on a plane when you were a minister, then there was a story going around, don't let the plane fly, they're going to put us abroad again. Did you do the same because you knew what you were in charge of or not? You don't have to answer this other part of the question, it's more like an anecdote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43171	Thank you. Here's my colleague Shuker, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43172	I can answer no, you're in charge of funding the deficit and you're in charge of reprogramming your debts, you're not in charge of the third. Therefore, I did quote article 26. I mean the Law on the implementation of the state budget because we gave the right for someone to be in charge, we, the Croatian Parliament. Without our right, someone doesn't have that right. So that's what this is about, nothing else. However, when it comes to one of these laws that directly turns 22 billion kuna from the budget, when you take more direct revenues from hospitals, health homes, etc., that figure goes even worse, then you can't argue about it that you don't see so-called. cost benefit, how much it costs and what's the effect of it all together. Because it's easy to say populistly we're going to do this and what, at the same time... we're going to give you that, but you need to have the courage to say listen, it's not going to work and it's a key problem and that's why there's no minister today, that's why today's colleagues from the ruling coalition don't debate because they don't have the courage to say. I didn't want to enforce the laws that came to this high house today while we were in power. Everything is offered, so the reduction in contributions is even to 7%. Now if you 1% carry... 1.2-1.3 billion times 7 that's nine billion kuna. Such a bill has come to this home, such a bill is now gone. So it's crucial that we, as parliamentary representatives, insist that someone finally tells us how much this health care costs, and then he offers us a law to get to the revenue of financing that health care because otherwise we're going to listen to the same stories over and over again. I'm like a minister, not like Ivan Schuker, but as a minister, I've been in a position three times to settle the debt of hospitals to drugs, that was 500, 600 million and so, three times in seven years of office. I don't know if Dalic did it, here's a colleague of Linic's. He's already got another resolution that's only far bigger. And why are they bigger, because the health budget has fallen by a billion and 400 million kuna, and you can't do the same services that I can say for my own sake because the drugs are getting more expensive and more expensive, you can't finance something with a smaller amount than that...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43173	Time. Thank you. And the closing word on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club for 5 minutes, Darko Milinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43174	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, Deputy Minister. When a child gets scared when he does something wrong, so when you ask him what it is, why did you do it and you shouldn't do it then shut up and ask him again, then you know how a parent says what a cat's tongue is, it's got his dear friends on the left side of the cat's tongue. That's good, that's one message or the health minister has no support in the SDP club and that would be good or another, if you really didn't have any single argument to defend this law and I think this is the other to things, that you don't have any single argument that no single representative of the ruling coalition has answered for a word to try to defend this new law. A fellow Shuker, this law and health care today costs 24 billion 780 million kuna and 178,000 kuna, and the HZZO budget is 20 billion and 600 million kuna. So it's missing 4 billion and 126 million kuna. However, this debate has nevertheless reached certain conclusions, and as we see that the opposition has not appeared, they agree with, excuse me, that the position has not appeared, that they are in agreement with these words and individual findings today. So, the first finding of health care is in collapse. Resuscitation is unnecessary, throwing money into a bag with no bottom and as you say illegal. The collapse of the health system also requires that the health system is missing between 150 million and 200 million kuna each month. It's a devastating fact that 100,000 new patients are on the waiting list. It is a well-known fact, and today it is said very clearly in the debate that the minister has not fulfilled any of his pre-election promises, but none. I forgot when he said he was going to set up a basket of mandatory health insurance to know what right given the mandatory health insurance the patient or citizen has. So, patient associations. There's nothing to cooperate with them. He didn't cancel his extra insurance like he said. He did not lift the participations as he said, he did not abolish how he said shameful participations in primary health care, did not return health homes as he said, did not abolish one percent of pensions, one percent of contributions to pensions and did not return the birthplace he promised. And it's actually nothing, absolutely nothing made out of your pre-election promise. Equally when I said that the health system under this law lacks four billion 126 million kuna if we respect the law we have them. I'll do it again, and I'm asking you to remember that from your position, and we from the opposition know that. The contribution for the unemployed is €620 million from the general taxes does not pay the state budget. Article 82 of the former 63rd let's say conservatively two and a half billion kunas. Make it three, three and a half. Make it two-and-a-half billion kuna, you don't get paid out of general taxes, and you need to. Contributions from pensions from general taxes should be paid 370 million kuna and not paid. The excise duty on tobacco is 32% to go to the health budget, and there is no additional health insurance for those released 550 million kuna. Now look, what I've listed is 5 billion and 240 million kuna. Today's HZZO budget is 20 and a half billion kuna. And now add these 5 billion kunas that are not in the state budget due to the non-compliance of the law, so the HZZO budget would then be about 25 billion kuna to what health care costs under this law and according to the arrangement it is today. So at the end when we all invited the minister to come and say a few words about this law that really scandalously came here, in a scandalous way came here to the Croatian Parliament so I'll tell you I didn't mean the Minister of Health. The health minister admitted last week that he is not a health minister but is Minister Linic. For us, it would have been much better if Minister Linic had come to take over last week's health ministry portfolio, because he could really have answered some of these questions. Maybe you could say why he took health care somewhere around 5 billion kuna. Due to everything called the Croatian Democratic Community will not support this Obligation Health Insurance Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43175	Thank you. We have reports of replicas. Branko Vuksic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43176	Dear fellow Milinovic, you have asked me not what order you are of why you are silent on this right side of me, then left to you. Well, it's just because they don't care. You wondered if they agreed or disagreed with Mr. Minister Ostojić and that it would be good if they disagreed. Whether they agree or disagree, they should express their opinion. I think the public deserves it. They do not speak for us as we do not speak for them, we speak for Croatian citizens. Their honor was saved by an associate member of Damir Cain, and this should be emphasized by the one who spoke and expressed his views. You've brought out here before, and you've said in your discussion that there's money for health care and you've spoken on these examples 4 and some billion kunas that the state doesn't pay for health care and it does it against the law. Here is just an example of how the Croatian state works and how no one accounts to anyone, and in the Croatian Parliament it is covered with silence. But you know that when you keep quiet for too long, it's the worst thing in the country when you keep quiet for a long time, when you talk is good. But when it starts to shut up, then it's a bad practice, and the worst thing is when the people are silent and when they're kicked against those who can't keep their mouths shut.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43177	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43178	Well, pal, I'm experiencing this non-prosecution of the minister, and even a lack of support, so you know that party discipline exists in all parties, so even that party discipline didn't force any SDP MPs to at least try to defend this law that's actually indefensible. I think this is another proof, so with this collapse of the health system, that I am now not counting again from waiting lists, from disrespecting the Association of Patients, disrespect for the Croatian Parliament at the end of the day, of all that I think that the time has really matured, and even with the absence of SDP support for this law that Minister Ostojić really thinks well. Because it is not a lack of discussion in the Croatian Parliament, it is a lack of support for Minister Ostojić's work, and we have seen in this year and a half that there is almost no vision and has not proposed any systematic solution. I suggested them, some of them were guilty, but I suggested them in good faith. Some of them were probably guilty, but for a year and a half we have a lack of any vision and any structural problem solving in the Croatian health system. I think that the smaller defeat of Minister Ostojic is in the local elections in Zagreb, that this is a greater defeat because his party's support for this law has lagged. I really think that the time has matured to think carefully whether this reserve position he took when he lost the mayor's parliamentary elections is whether this reserve position can't be a spare position and I think he has to think about simply withdrawing after today's debate and giving up everything. I accept that it is exhausted and that it is blown out, we are all kind of blown out by local elections, but it is time to really retire and give the new powers the opportunity to contribute together with this Croatian Assembly to improving the health system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43179	Thank you. Next replica, Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43180	Mr. Milinovic asked himself how much health care costs? Yeah, it's true, health care costs. We've got about 21 billion kuna at the disposition. I guess a little, if you don't find some internal reserve. In one word, this health care cost about as much as it cost two years ago. How much can you save? Maybe 5%, maybe 10%, I doubt, I don't know, I admit I don't know. However, I do not pollomise the vis-a-vis of this claim but rather the vis-a-vis of another finding that you mentioned that the rehabilitation of health care is an unnecessary, finished quote. And I ask myself a question, and to the Croatian public, who would, for example, paid 180 million kuna how many General Hospital Pula losses in 2012 and 2013 alone? General Hospital Pula or General Hospital is the founder of Istria County. The County of Istria, which has a real budget of 280 million kuna, cannot resuscitate a system that is incometing cca 300 million kuna and which today has more than 1300 employees. If there was no recovery system in the County of Istria, you would literally collapse. Not only would it pull the general hospital, the patients who are gravitating it, but the county and all the county agencies. I'm saying, somewhere around 3,000 people would be at risk. I assume that all those who agreed to resuscitation in other Croatian counties are in the same position as Istria. So, without this recovery, without these 4 or 5 billion kunas, it is simply not possible at this time to cure Croatian health care. If Mr. Linic or Mr. Ostojić or Milanovic hadn't done it, I'm afraid it would be far worse in this country, and eventually all of this will be paid by Croatian citizens. And that's where we agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43181	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Milinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43182	My colleague Caine, I didn't say it was an unnecessary recovery, but it's unnecessary in this way. I think you'll agree with me I said and let's follow along with the pay phone. I also invited everyone and unions and journalists to the press conference to follow the health situation together. I now guarantee you that the 7th, 8th and 9th month will be a new debt in healthcare half a billion kuna, that the hospital in Pula, you follow it, that the hospital in Pula will now, if they settle it with no idea how much, that 6th, 7th, 8th and 9th months will create new obligations, a new debt. Well, that's why this recovery is so unnecessary. Without structural change, I'll tell you and there was a lot of conversation, I said in six months with the unions, so with then Minister Shuker, the first budget of the Ministry of Health when I became minister was almost 25 billion kuna. And then we went into structural change, and we slowed down to 22.5 billion kuna, and that's the budget I left behind. It's 20.5 billion kuna now. So, by 2 billion kuna less than a year and a half ago. And every year in Europe, our health system costs 5 to 10% more. What am I afraid of? That this is a preparation, this law, for cutting rights. You have two options in health care, the European Commission said the other day. Or cutting the right so it's enough 21 billion kuna but then we'll all have to be easy for us than those who can't pay extra for their health services or find a new source of funding that Minister Linic tried through real estate tax and failed. That's what this is about. So this is enough, too, but when you go to the hospital, when you knock, you'll have to pay 500 kuna. Then this system could hold water. So we need to find new sources of funding, this system costs about 25 billion kuna. Or change the laws so you don't put the government in a position to break the laws. If all the laws are respected, all that we stand out for health care in one way or another is about 25 billion kuna and it can finance this system. Is it necessary for this then, but let's respect the laws and medical resources he has. Or change the laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43183	Col. Milinovic's time is up. We have the next line, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43184	Thank you very much. So, fellow Milinovic, you said how much income is being made in health, so based on all the legal provisions, but when this article 163 enters into force on 1.01.2015, then one hole of some 7.8 billion kuna will be made. So in what will come from contributions and how much health care will cost. This means 7.8 billion kuna to increase practically deficits or reduce other expenditures in the state budget to patch it up. And when we talk about reducing the contribution and this famous real estate tax, the minister said not once that he wanted to bring real estate tax into a position to cut by 2 to 4% of the health contribution. This means that he planned on taking an additional 6.7 billion kuna from Croatian citizens and financing healthcare with it. So these are the facts that you can't escape from, and these are the two things that today's legislator of this law had to say in this High House for the simple reason and what you said, and that's that someone's obviously getting ready to cut the rights, and this is easy preparation, this is easy laying down fire and heating to finally bake someone and prepare them to accept it. Unfortunately, again, Croatian citizens will feel it on their skin. And what I didn't say in all these replicas today and in the debate, and what I think this law should have is quite a social aspect. Unfortunately, most of our citizens have found themselves on the sidelines of society and some not their own fault, and I think this law almost makes them see, but puts them in the crowd of those who have or do not have, so be it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43185	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Milinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43186	And I said that I'm afraid this is some kind of barrage preparation for the right to be fucked in the Croatian health system. But I would dare say indeed if we vote on Friday this law gives it anti-constitutional because in the end you, when you pass a law, must also have a financial impact assessment. We don't have it here. In this law, Minister or Linic or Ostojic must say in this law this law costs you 20.5 billion kuna as much as the HZZO budget is now. Okay, according to the Fiscal Responsibility Act, we'll see if that's at the end of the year 20.5 billion kuna. If you don't, you'll answer. So this law may even need to be considered on constitutional charges. There are no means to implement this law, and that's the only truth. So you might want to think about it if this bill is passed and the constitutional suit is somehow being cut up here, and what is most important is not the means for the implementation of this mandatory health insurance law. I'm going to repeat once again for seven, eight, nine months we're going to have half a billion kunas of new debt in our healthcare system. So we throw this into the wind going a new debt by the end of the year will be a billion kuna of a new debt. Unless it appears that it is in preparation unless a new law is drafted where insurance rights will be cut, and we in HDZ are opposed to such a way of resolving the situation in the Croatian health system. And that's why the SDP got their tongues ripped out. They have nothing to say about it because these are facts, these are evidence, these are arguments and points. But Damir Cain was standing up for it. I hope you don't get into the SDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43187	Time, fellow Milinovic's time. We have the next line, Josip Djakic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43188	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Milinovic, you've well concluded that this law is unfounded. This law, which does not have financial support, cannot certainly be implemented. Just like he doesn't have a decision on recovery. The recovery of county hospitals still playing on vervain has no money or money is secured, there is no manager of the rehabilitation that would be appointed to the general government's powerlessness on the ground, there is nothing going on and there has been a recovery that has reduced decentralised funds, decreased regular funds and then eventually reduced the point for certain activities in hospital operations such as hip, knee surgery, joint by 30% and thus artificially caused the debt of our hospitals to change administrations to change the administrative council and to manage them before the local elections, here unfortunately they have not arrived. And in all that time, two, three, four, five or six months, absolutely nothing happens. Empty space. You don't know who's in charge, you don't know who's in charge, you don't know who's going to be, and you'll probably be all party friends, they're professional and competent only without money, they can't provide the basic activity of our hospitals, let alone everything that's happened. Only if 200 people are fired everywhere to go home to ensure as we have heard that Mr. Linic asks that there are no more cleaners, no laundry, no food, all of it will work for the hospital. I just don't know who's gonna pay them with what money. He's probably planning to shut down five departments of every general hospital so he can stay on two of those necessary emergency receptions and maybe how he has a formulation, so they can meet the needs of this budget or this law that doesn't lead to anything. This is a shot in the blank one more time shot at those who certainly don't even have for basics, let alone for any other insurance that health care needs to provide.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43189	Time. Thank you. We have a colleague Milinović's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43190	Comrade Djakic agrees with you. From this recovery, nothing. The resolution manager who will be selected by key as we know it will be creating not the same but greater obligations than the previous directors for the first month. And then the question is, who's going to change or who's going to answer when the sanity managers take over the hospital health care facility. We're being laid off in the healthcare system because there's a lack of personnel in the health system. In 2011, the audit found that in the last year we hired 435 watch out for healthcare professionals who have and are now missing and will be none of them unhealthy. Anyone who has retired if necessary has been replaced with another unhealthy, therefore there has been no increase in unhealthy workers. So firing in the health system can't solve you and those problems. But then the question arises, all the directors of the clinical hospital centers appointed by the new government in a year and a half together with all the health care sector have created a debt of 2.5 billion kuna of a new debt. People, in two, in a year and a half, $2.5 billion of new debt doesn't matter to the old one. Now you're asking a question. They have appointed directors, so they do business negatively, who will replace these directors and who will be the rehabilitation manager of those directors appointed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Maybe the European Commission. So from that recovery, nothing, they said until the beginning of this year, so they went through to 1. So they said to one. Six is not up to one. 6th. So from that recovery, nothing. And it's better that nothing. Let them get into structural changes, and then it's the only way and then go into a health care system recovery, and then that would mean something, then it would be some kind of normal recovery of the health system, not the one that's against the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43191	Thank you. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43192	Final draft law on compulsory health insurance, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 406. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's up for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 102 votes, we are accepted to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's only one amendment. I'd like the esteemed Deputy Minister of Health, Marian Cesarik, to explain the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43193	Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia submits the following amendment to the final proposal for a mandatory health insurance law. Article 165 is amended as follows: "This law shall be published in the National Journal and shall enter into force on the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, with the exception of the provisions of Articles 2 and 3 and 34 of the Part relating to the application of Directive 2011/24EU and Articles 26 to 32 which enter into force on 25 October 2013, Article 18 of points 5 and 6, and Articles 19, 22, 23 and 25 of the Part relating to the basic and additional list of orthopedic and other aids and dental aids which enter into force on 1 January 2014. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. That amendment aims to ensure the entry into force of legal provisions relating to the application of European Union rules with the date of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43194	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Is there someone restrained? Thank you very much. What's the score? Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. I find that the majority of votes 76 votes in favour, 23 votes against and 2 abstentions are accepted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm putting it to the vote,...... And there are more amendments. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] Excuse me. We have an amendment to the Legislative Committee. Amendment number one of the respected Deputy Ministers to Article 165.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43195	Thank you very much. The amendment is not accepted, as the Government of the Republic of Croatia itself has proposed an amendment which is a substance identical to the amendment of the Croatian Parliament's Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43196	President of the Committee, respected Ingrid Antičević.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43197	I'm withdrawing because we just voted on an identical amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43198	Thank you very much. Amendment withdrawn. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that the majority of the votes of 76 votes in favour and 24 votes against the adopted Obligation Health Insurance Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43591	We continue with, pardon: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 398; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia You have received the proposal in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. You've received reports. With us, Deputy Minister Zdenko Antesic is with his associate. Deputy, would you like an introduction? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43592	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Public transport in line coastal maritime transport in the Republic of Croatia includes 56 state lines. Of which 27 ferry ships, 16 fast-ship and 13 ship-going classic lines with 13 ships and 77 ships participating. It's about Rijeka's sailboat as the largest state passenger ship and 12 private boaters. In 2012, the total number of passengers transported in public coastal maritime transport amounted to 11 million 157 thousand and 109 passengers and 2 million 764 thousand and 73 vehicles. Jadrolinija participates in total passenger traffic with around 84.9% and in total vehicle traffic with a share of 86.4%. In view of the activity of public transport in line with coastal maritime transport, it is characterised by inability to operate in business. This activity shall be subsidised by budgetary means in such a way as to give support in cases where actual costs cannot be covered on a given line of income. The annual appropriations for subsidising this activity in recent years have moved in the following amounts. 436 million kuna in 2008, 382 million 749 thousand kuna in 2011, 375 million kuna in 2012, and in 2013, these funds amount to 355 million kuna. In this context, it is extremely important to adopt a new Excise Taxation Act, which starts on 1 July 2013. Under the law in question, shipowners are exempt from paying excise duty on energy used as fuel for navigation. By releasing the excise duty of shipowners in the Republic of Croatia, they come into an equal situation with respect to shipowners from other European Union countries which will make them competitive and will be able to improve the level of services through better, more orderly and safer vessels. This also reduces the cost of maintaining a liner transport system for the state budget. It is estimated that the activity of public coastal coastal maritime transport will have a savings effect from July to December 2013 for around 39 million kuna. The following can be concluded that the activity of public coastal maritime transport is carried out regularly and continuously in a satisfactory manner in which the approval of the transitional period as well as the application of the Excise Law enables the implementation of this activity without reducing the number of lines along with the insurance, rejuvenation of the fleet, since the age structure of the fleet is still inadequate especially in the context of the application of the standards of security and navigation of the European Union. The conditions of use of the transitional period as known were also the establishment of liner transport entirely on concession grounds. Until the entry of the Croatian Republic into the European Union until Croatia enters the European Union. Out of 56 state lines, from the adoption of the 2006 Law to the beginning of 2013, a total of 12 lines were concerted. In the period from March to June 2013, the process of concessioning the remaining state lines was also completed, bringing the total number of concessioned lines to 49 today. In doing so, 5 state lines carry out public transport through a coastal maritime transport contract rather than a concession. It is the seasonal ferry line Rijeka-Dubrovnik, the classic boat line Brodarica-Krapanj, the seasonal ferry line Drvenik-Dominca, the ship line Komiza-Biševo and the seasonal fastboat line Pula-Zadar. The remaining two state lines of 56 are now not being maintained due to the construction of the port infrastructure and these are the lines of Zadar-Osljak-Preko and Prvic Luka-Shepurine. The process of concessioning state lines in the public coastal coastal maritime transport system has ended, and the concession contracts that will be signed today will be consummated by a transitional period for the application of Council Regulation 3577 of '92, from 7 December 1992 on the application of the principle of freedom to provide services in maritime transport within Member States, i.e. maritime cabotage for coastal maritime transport until 31 December 2016 and for occasional excursion transport until 31 December 2014. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The approval of that transitional period will allow domestic shipowners in public coastal maritime transport and occasional excursion transport and occasional excursion transport to prepare for competition waiting for them on the common European market. The main objective of this law is to comply with the legal acquis of the European Union in the maritime area. In this respect, the law lays down the conditions for the application of Council Regulations No. 3577/92 of 7 December 1992 on the application of the principle of freedom to provide services in maritime transport within Member States, or so on. the maritime cabotage part relating to public line transport, as well as the application of new rules governing the issue of State aid in the form of compensation for the provision of services of public interest. In that context, Article 6 had to be amended. The law and the notion of state lines to delete the concept along the coastal line part of that obligation to comply with the legal property of the European Union. Namely, Council Regulation (EC) No This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. island cabotage. The exception is deep bays and fjords whose road tour crosses 100 km. Communication from the Commission to the European Parliament, the Council and the European Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions on the interpretation of Council Regulation 3577/92, further explaining the individual decisions of the Regulation in point 5, recognising the importance of maritime transport for islanders, states that public service obligations can be imposed on island cabotage and when shipowners in their economic interest would not maintain an adequate service. The regulation therefore limits the right of public service to be introduced only on island cabotage, while other maritime transport should be left to the market. For this reason, the concept of along the coastal line must be excluded from the public line transport system because, according to European legislation, coastal cabotage is considered... to be the transport of passengers and goods between ports on the coast of the same Member State without regard to the island. However, it should be said that the issue of the number 101 state line connecting Rijeka, Split, Stari Grad, Korčula, Mljet and Dubrovnik, is another issue. According to its character, this line, even though we call it colaquiyal along the coast, is an island line and its retention in the public transport system is not questioned by the amendment to Article 6 of the Law. The 101 state line, as known since 2010, has been held as a seasonal line. According to the already mentioned Council Regulation no. Article 4 of the Public Service Obligation can only be imposed in relation to the regular service, regular line transport in the island cabotage, i.e. as a service that is provided regularly throughout the year. Therefore, seasonal services cannot be subject to a public service contract. In this respect, the seasonal lines cease to be part of the public coastal maritime transport system and become a form of occasional transport. This is also a confirmation in the European Court of Justice ruling against Spain in 2006 where the court confirmed that season lines have primarily a touristic character and as such cannot be subject to a public service contract. Where public transport is maintained by means of a concession contract, occasional seasonal transport cannot be established. This brings us back to the need to open a debate on the future features of the number 101 state line. In fact, if we want to keep this line in the public transport system, it must have a year-round character, and it looks like this in numbers. In 2004, 156 436 passengers and 27 027 vehicles were transported, with only 80 534 passengers and 13 545 vehicles in 2009. So over a short period of 5 years, traffic has been halved, more precisely the number of passengers has been reduced by 51.5 and vehicles by 50.1%. Therefore, in 2010, it was decided that the number 101 state line would become a seasonal line. Trends of passengers and vehicles continue during the seasonal period. In 2010, 65 897 passengers and 11 464 vehicles were transported, in 2011, even a third less, i.e. 45 323 passengers and 7934 vehicles. An additional drop in traffic was also reported in 2012 when 41 312 passengers and 7044 vehicles were transported, which is 8.8% of passengers and 11.2% of vehicles less than a year ago. At the same time, line maintenance costs are extremely high so its subsidisation only during the season period, four months with a frequency of two trips per week is approximately 15 million kuna. This means that subsidisation of this line throughout the year with the same capacity and with two return trips per week and with savings resulting from the basic use of so-called. Blue fuel amounted to about 35 million kuna. This line has no doubt a special place in the tradition of Croatian linear shipping. Older, i.e. The elderly are nostalgicly remembered as a place of encounter, chakul and beautiful memories. It's a significant line, and it's important for the islands that matter. However, it costs and its importance should be put in line with the government budget's committed resources. We are prepared to open a wide and reasoned debate on this issue when new decisions on state lines are made. In the part relating to harmonisation with the acquis, this law also provides for the application of Council Regulation No 1177 of 2010 concerning the rights of passengers in maritime transport. As regards the application of that Regulation, the law provides for the competence of the Agency for Coastal, Linear, Maritime Transport as the competent regulatory authority responsible for the implementation of Regulation No 1177/2010 on passenger rights when travelling by sea and inland waterways and amending Regulation No 2006/2004 and all in order to ensure a higher level of protection of passenger rights in maritime transport. Furthermore, the conditions to be met by a legal, or natural person in order to result in a concession for public transport in coastal maritime transport, or in order to result in the right to public transport under the Public Procurement Treaty for waterway transport services, shall be harmonised with the acquis of the EU. In order to protect the interests of Croatian sailors and shipowners, and to enable effective communication of the crew with passengers in order to ensure safety for key members of the safety crew, the obligation to learn Croatian language is prescribed. This possibility is also foreseen by EU maritime cabotage rules. In addition to this, the law extends the tasks entrusted to the Agency for Coastal, Lined, Maritime Transport in such a way as to include the establishment of the highest amount of public transport services prices on state lines, and the operation of operations of the information system of the public coastal maritime transport. Evaluating that the vital interest for the Republic of Croatia is to further develop transport services in public coastal maritime transport through the implementation of this law, there will be conditions for informing the liner maritime transport system, which will enable the provision of increased availability of services, more efficient system surveillance, and ultimately allow for more transparent control of the system of subsidisation of services in public coastal maritime transport. This law of the Agency shall comply with the provisions of the Law on concessions which provides for the possibility of the transfer of the concession contract, reduce the number of members of the Agency's Governing Council compared to the current one, increasing its operationality and efficiency in decision-making, and in part the work of the Governing Council in line with the activities of the Agency. It also addresses issues that have not been fully regulated in the current application of the law, and that they should be regulated in a different way or more clearly, such as improving the concession of lines with specific reference to the conditions and way of awarding concessions, raising the level of efficiency and economics of the public coastal maritime transport system while raising the quality of transport services, and regulating the right to preferential transport, given a number of regulations that are not harmonised with each other and regulating this matter. Furthermore, the conditions for the submission of concessions with the possibility of participating in construction have been extended to ensure the rejuvenation of the fleet of public coastal maritime transport, given that the age structure of the passenger fleet is still inadequate, in particular in the context of the application of the EU standards of safety of navigation. These amendments and additions to the law also regulate the matter of preferential transport in line coastal maritime transport which may be free of charge or at a discount. The law particularly regulates the right to preferential transport for the island population. The right to privileged transport shall also be granted to vehicle owners, i.e. users of a leasing vehicle or legal persons, i.e. the owners of crafts which have a residence or seat on the island. The right to preferential transport in public transport shall be subject to natural persons who have residence on islands, legal persons and craft owners based on the island, children up to 12 years of age, healthcare professionals in carrying out regular and emergency transport, patients from the island on land and vice versa and employees of other public services in cases of extraordinary events. The right to free transport in public transport is reserved for students, students and pensioners and persons over 65 years of age who have a residence on the island. On the lines connecting the island of its residence with land and other islands, healthcare professionals in carrying out regular and emergency transport of patients from the island to the mainland and vice versa and employees and vehicles of other public services in cases of extraordinary events. In addition to privileged transport rights in public line coastal maritime transport, students of primary and secondary schools who do not have a place of residence on the islands have particularly sensitive categories of population, as well as students of primary and secondary schools who do not have a place of residence on the islands, as well as of the Peljesac Peninsula as disabled persons who will systematically resolve privileged transport in line with coastal coastal transport, given that this substance regulates a number of other regulations under current conditions such as the Law on Privileges, on internal passenger transport, whose rights with the basis of the use of benefits under this law are reserved. Also, within the framework of the Infringement Provisions, appropriate nomotechnical improvements have been made in relation to the provisions of the law so far, and they have been extended for the works prescribed by this law. The law also adopts appropriate technical and nomotechnical improvements as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43593	Thank you too, Deputy. We have two replicas. The first one was Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43594	I thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy Minister, I have listened very carefully to you and I can only say here, given that for six years, I have led this portfolio that you are leading today and I know all the problems that arise in the functioning of this demanding kind of traffic. But we in southern Croatia, now I'm telling you as a representative from Dubrovnik-Neretva County we can no longer think this is about online circumstances, random circumstances that lead to the complete abandonment of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County. This seems to me now one system and the intention to really neglect Dubrovnik-Neretva County, the city of Dubrovnik, the peninsula Peljesac, and above all the island of Korčula, above all the island of Korčula. Namely, after what this government did with the Peljevne bridge, what it did, after a year of being late with the construction of the highway towards Ploča, and we do not know when it will be completed, after nothing has been done or done, very little with the roads on Pelješac, which after 1.07. will take more traffic than it has been the case so far, after the new ferry of greater capacity on Trpanj-Ploče has been resolved, after a few days after the Public Line Coastal and Maritime Transport Agency sent a new, i.e. selecting a catamaran of significantly smaller and worse performances than the existing and especially as regards the number of capacities and more sugar in the end is the elimination of the coastal line of Rijeka-Dubrovnik which stands on Korčula. So anything that could have happened to neglect Korčula and the south of Croatia with this government happened over the past year and a half. And I really don't know what and how this government feels about the Croatian south.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43595	Here's the answer you'll get from the Deputy Minister. Here you go, Deputy. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43596	Dear Mr. Branko Bačić, Your Honor, here I will present some information regarding the island of Korčula. I fully understand you because I am an islander myself and I am extremely sensitive to this problem, but when we talk about this, therefore, about a system of integration that is of immense importance especially to the islanders, because the basic achievement of civilizational being on the island is a transport link. So we can go somewhere and go back. Well, I'll just read you some information about the island of Korčula. So, the island of Korčula where you live, of course, is connected by state lines: 2 all year long ferry lines and this state line 604 Lastovo-Vela Luka-Split and 634 Orebic-Domince; one seasonal ferry line 641 Drvenik-Dominche; 2 all year long fastboat lines and this Lastovo-Vela Luka-Hvar-Split and Prigradica-Hvar-Split; one seasonal fastboat line, which is Dubrovnik-Mljet-Korčula-Lastovo and one year's classic boat line Orebić-Korčula. Of the total subsidy for the lines connecting the island of Korčula at an annual level, about 70 million kuna or around 20% of the total budget of the coastal maritime transport agency. And overall viewing the island of Korčula is connected in an extra-seasonal period with 25 trips a day which gradually increases according to the season and in the seasonal period is 41 trips a day. Of course, this is all small, but compared to some other islands, it's not that small. And in this context, I think that the overall social situation must be taken into account, above all I think about the economic situation and the possibility of all of us being subsidized from the state budget, i.e. from the tax revenues of all of us citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43597	Thank you, Deputy. Time's up, I hope there'll be more opportunities for answers to the replica. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43598	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, you said in your opening statement that this law introduces privileges in transportation and islanders, but also those who do not have residence on Croatian islands, and that is where you listed a group of primary and secondary school students, regular high school students and disabled persons. For disabled people, I understand, it solves one law. However, in this law, we do not read such an option in Article 23, it is simply not prescribed unless it applies to Article 6 where it is written by other persons who acquire the right under special regulations. However, we have had since 2005 and even before privileged transport. I don't know, I really don't know those regulations that make it possible for us to respect or use it so far. And this law doesn't exactly state what these groups are now being released. that they have the right to a privileged transport. So I'd like to hear how you came up with it to really know what we're talking about and if this law really does. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43599	Thank you, too. Here's the answer. Here you go, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43600	Thank you very much. Mr. Boric, this law, therefore, does not introduce this law in these categories, especially sensitive categories of the population that exercise the privileges or privileges of transport in coastal line transport, so it is not the subject of this law, but the existing rights which are regulated by the Law on Privileges in Internal Travel of 2000, so NN 97/2000, and simply this law on amending and supplementing the Law recognises it and classifies it as something that already exists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43601	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless we're starting a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Mladen Novak. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43602	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor. Before we start talking about this law, I have to show my dissatisfaction and dissatisfaction with what we're doing today without a break. Not because I need a break as one or any of you, but if the boards are already scheduled at the time of the break, then it's unacceptable for me to work without a break at the same time, so we're not allowed to go to those same committees. So much for how consistent this work is, I don't think it should have been, it shouldn't have been brought, it shouldn't have happened otherwise. As regards this law in the introductory part, it states that the activity of public transport in line coastal maritime transport is an activity of particular public interest for the Republic of Croatia. There are also some significant percentages in which Jadrolini participates. What Boric now mentioned, particularly protected joints and groups whose transport is provided under special conditions or preferential transport. All this says is that it's an extremely important law. Now let's just point out again that in front of this ridiculous number of MPs, I'm talking about it and we're letting it know that it's the text that's already been adopted, regardless of what we're talking about or not talking about, it doesn't make any sense, so I'm going to look at a few of those details that I think are closely connected to this law, maybe they're not the very core of the law. As the Deputy Minister in introductory part 20 million kuna said, this budget provides for less resources to subsidise this type of transport compared to last year. That 20 million kuna needs to be found somewhere. It is always found in one way and the same way that the price of transport is increased, it is paid by the users of transport, mainly by the crisis in the country that our people cannot separate themselves for a holiday at sea, so it should then be foreign tourists, so that should be not to say humanely. But let's face it, it's the cost most of all of those people who are addicted to that transport and those who unfortunately decide to go on vacation on the island because they're forced to have something there, and someone who goes that way. I think it's incorrect primarily to those residents who are down there. The increase in this price will likely be some who have been thinking about whether to go on vacation to the island or not. Perhaps it will be the crucial drop that pours the glass and will decide to fly on land, and this is the impact on the income of island budgets. In its opening part, I actually think it was an answer to the deputy minister's reply that civilization's reach is a traffic connection. I absolutely agree with that and civilizational reach is a traffic connection not only of the island but also of those parts that are completely isolated on the mainland of those parts where the cars have failed, so there is no such thing as a blow, I have to use it for us, so it has a very good consequence that, say, the complete Banovina or Bani that you prefer is displaced, and also with Lika, Kordun, the same situation is that a fellow Mandic in many Slavic says in many Slavic regions. And so I absolutely support all those who advocate the island's traffic connection, because from our perspective we understand what that means. The subsidy or entry into the EU thus restricts the possibility of subsidising that transport and introduces, if I am not mistaken with 2017, the full liberalisation of this type of transport begins. Whether or not Jadrolini will exist, whether she will be in Croatian ownership, I do not know. Since this government took something as a normal way of doing business, I would not be surprised that after Croatia's airlines, after Croatia's insurance that one of these companies that is scheduled to patch up budget holes would be the same as Jadrolini. In that case subsidising whether or not it will be necessary to do so, we will only see that. This liberalisation for our existing carriers, as far as I've seen on the board, even those who are from that brand who understand better, are not exactly in agreement with the impact of international competition from some others who might come to these concessions. But according to what I see me whenever some liberalisation comes, which is imposed, is not imposed, we ourselves have agreed to be part of the EU and whether we have managed to fight for what we should have done is another thing. We kind of retreat and say OK. All that comes from the European Union is good, and we accept it without discussion. And unfortunately it might also happen if we were to lose our carrier, if someone else would take it, but that someone else would probably, that's my guess, I'd like to be corrected by those who know this problem better, but that someone else will only keep those lines that are profitable. We've heard here many times that what doesn't bring us profit. But the one that brings us profits is going to sell it faster to fill in the budget gaps. If someone has certain lines that are, are not profit-making, which are simply still subsidized now, they cannot surely profit if those other lines are given, which are profit-making, which some incomes are given to another concessionary. We can't even have a company that I don't say doesn't make losses, which in itself isn't problematic. And on the other hand, it's questionable what kind of personnel we are, given that we shouldn't be fooled, until now, the state-owned companies have been staffed by the system, so we have to be our own. How many times have there been since we fill people with, fill those places with quality frames and let's see some positive shift. One of the last best examples is Croatia's airlanes which, as far as I can see, is looking for a bonus for successful business. In any case, one of the moves under this Act is envisaged to reduce the number of members of the Management Board of the Agency. I thank those who warned me about what was actually going on with it. We reduce those, we reduce the administrative councils precisely for those personnel who have something to say about them, who are referred to the problem, whose area of interest and we bring it down to the body of the extended government body. What's really the only rule we're running? It's exclusive by the ruling. Well, it's well known you can't make any decisions if you don't have enough votes. But now it doesn't even fit the fact that you have the right to say it anymore. Even if you tell that body that's closed, that you can't get out with some information, with some attitude, the agency's decision is the agency's decision. Isn't there really a harvest of common sense? Not even a harvest of goodwill that if anything else at least gives opportunity to those who think differently to say their opinion. The Croatian Labour Club will be restrained around this law for this very reason that this way of setting up, staffing the board of directors of the Agency is unacceptable for us and we believe that you have the opportunity to change that. I believe there is a possibility, however, that there is a good will that you should prove it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43603	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43604	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Novak, you're right about everything, I agree with everything you've said. In the Club of the Croatian Democratic Community, too, it personally bothers me that the Government intervenes in the law except in the part in which we comply with the European Union Directives only to show that it is disturbed by the people who know this job in the Administrative Council of the Agency for Public, Coastal Liner Maritime Transport. In fact, so far, three members of the government have been sitting there by representatives of the maritime union. So I'm surprised that the government, the government, is disturbed by the representatives of the Navy at the Agency's Governing Council. So they were representatives of the Croatian Shipowners' Association "Mare Nostrum" and they were expelled. So there was the Croatian Register of Ships, which is the most professional company institution in Croatia, which has something to say when it comes to concessioning of ship, speedboat and ferry lines. In the end, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce also bothers. So, instead of taking care of this tripartite relationship between the employer and the employee administration, it is in a simple way that it is best to have your party comrades in the board of directors, to move them there, to throw out those who know and show how and how they manage that agency. The agency was just a reflection of the entire maritime sector, as it is its... about the frequencies, about the number of lines, about the size of the ferry, about the size of the vessel could be given by representatives of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so here they were. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I believe that this article is truly embarrassing to me and that this is not how the Law should be amended. And I agree with you, I think it would be good for the government to withdraw, or make its own amendment, and we will also support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43605	Thank you, too. Hey, buddy Novak's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43606	Thank you very much. Yeah, you're right, it's real, you apply the rule of exclusive on your mind and the rest of us, not the rest of us, it's not about us, it's about the waist that I believe still has something to say. But that's what we were already saying today, which was a speech a few days ago. Each bill puts P.Z.E. And now, every amendment to the law, even when 90% is a alignment with the provisions of the European Union. But that's why every time it's found appropriate to put in such a part of it that's classical personneling. This is a classic frame, this is nothing else. And now under the cover of it, 1 / 1 The 7th is here, let's go now, we're tied to the deadlines, all of this has to go through some procedure, and then let's get rid of the Agency's administrative council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43607	Thank you, too. And another replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43608	Dear counterpart Novak and you have relied on Mr Antesic's exposure and have determined that transport for the islands means life. It is certainly true, however, that islanders who are not satisfied with ferry transport prices that connect the island and the coast should be understood. Let's say the price of ferrys from year to year rises, so let's say from the beginning of the '90s that I go to Cres price of ferry transport cars and passengers, more cars, increased 200, maybe 300%, I need to calculate exactly, look at it, but during that time the standard is certainly not increased 2 or 3 times but the opposite, the standard has fallen and the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who go to the islands and those living on those islands. Well, let's just say it's no wonder that on the island of Cres, there are fewer and fewer people on the islands on weekends because they're simply too expensive to transport. I think it's very wrong to make up for the price of car transport itself, you should watch the overall tourist offer on the island because if tourists don't come to the island quite sure that the damage will be far higher than that, that the price of transportation is paid only by passengers. So if we don't have a tourist, we'll have even less money to transport passengers and vehicles.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43609	Thank you. On behalf of the Representatives' Club... Excuse me, here's my colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43610	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, you mentioned the dissatisfaction of the islanders with the price. I can absolutely agree with that, although I must say it's not a compliment right now, but if I'm not mistaken, I don't think my colleague Boris has long mentioned that the first time has happened after a long, long time to increase the population on the islands. Looks like it's some kind of calculation, now there's more of them, so they don't pay. Bad joke. I'm afraid that apart from the price problem, I'm afraid that in the very near future there could be a problem and a lack of lines, i.e. the elimination of certain lines and the reduction of their number, which would be an additional blow but not only for the island's population, not only in the harsh sense but for the island's population and in terms of income in terms of tourism. Now I remember the island of Brac and the airport of Brač. Isn't that the same as some tourist offer, shouldn't you stay at the airport? At that airport, as far as I can remember, the state has its own share that it's selling right now. At that airport, if I'm not mistaken, a year or two ago the state funded a complete control tower apparatus. I think it's obvious that there's some strategy missing, that there aren't any of these things that I think should be part of some common plan, you should know what's going on. Obviously, we have it on the system today I woke up and I think this is the best, tomorrow maybe something else will be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43611	Thank you. On behalf of SDP representative Tonka Ivcevic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43612	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. An esteemed deputy minister with a co-worker, co-workers and fellow MPs. This law ensures the regular association of inhabited islands with the mainland, but also the island with an appropriate number of daily connections in both directions, all in order to meet the needs of islanders, create better conditions for life on islands and encourage their development. This law shall comply with the legal acquis of the European Union and in the part relating to the freedom of provision of services in maritime transport within Member States, i.e. maritime cabotage on the application of rules governing the issue of state aid in the form of public service compensation for the provision of public interest services in respect of the rights of passengers on maritime transport, and shall lay down the competence of the coastal liner transport agency as the regulatory body responsible for the implementation of the provisions of the European Union Regulation, all in order to ensure the protection and rights of passengers in maritime transport. For this reason, the tasks entrusted to the Coastal Line Transport Agency are expanded. But let's take the turn. This is as the Deputy Minister has already said, it is lifted along the coastal lines because in accordance with the rules governing maritime cabotage obligations and restrictions can only be imposed by lines that ensure the continuous and regular integration of populated islands with land and islands, which means that seasonal lines stop being part of the public coastal transport system and become a form of occasional transport. Here, she would suggest to the Proposer to reconsider and find ways to further co-finance along the coastal line, which should then be regular and year-round with the possibility that in the winter months the number of sailing should be minimised. This line has somehow become a Croatian brand. We are witnessing that in the summer months, you are constantly looking for more tickets to be bought and up to a month in advance. It would be good to have additional efforts and to keep the coastal lines up and running year-round. It may also be possible to ask for co-financing from units of local and regional self-government and hotel-tourism entities that are of course directly benefiting from this line. The activities of the Coastal Line Transport Agency are further extended in order to comply with the law with concessions and regulations of the European Union. In Article 13, the composition of the Governing Council shall be amended from 7 to 5 members in order to increase the operationality and efficiency of decisions. All members are representatives of the ministries and these are maritime, financial and regional development in charge of the islands. I think there was a clear position here at the beginning of the Croatian government that said that it was responsible for all its actions and the implementation of all its decisions both in the ministries and the agencies, and that is why, by this example, it also said that it was responsible and intended to place its people in those specific positions. The composition of the expert commission for concessions which is not defined as representatives of the Ministry of the Institutions as so far as has been the Port Captain, the Croatian Register of Ships and Agency but as an expert body defined by professions and this maritime, legal, technical and economic profession, and retains the representative of the Port Captain who is a maritime profession. This does not exclude that members of the commission could not be from the abovementioned institutions that have participated so far in the work of the expert commission. Article 18 states that members of the crew in charge of the safety of the Croatian language knowledge obligations, all to ensure safety and enable effective communication of the crew with passengers. This Article also provides for exceptional rights on the lines for small islands which have an annual turnover of less than 300000 passengers to carry out public transport on the basis of the Public Procurement Treaty. These services may be provided for up to 12 years or even a period until the ship is fully amortised in the event of the intended construction of a ship on certain lines. Such an exception is very good because it is specific lines with a small number of passengers, which mean everything for a particular environment. This is the situation I have on my island on the state line on the route Komiza – the island of Biševo where the city through the city company is just to maintain this non-profit line built by a ship that meets all the conditions prescribed by the agency and it would be a shame not to sail on that line. We also had a situation on the route to the island of Prvic where the islanders wanted their old boat... For they are bound to him in various ways, if We will and emotionally. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This law also defines privileged transport which may be free of charge or with a discount in such a way as to accurately define the persons and vehicles who have the right to do so. A category of other persons entitled to preferential transport shall also be introduced by special regulations. In this way, we will encourage schools to conduct their excursions, excursions, nature schools and similar programmes on islands that will stimulate the island's economy right in the pre-season and sub-season. This is also good for the environments they have on high-school islands, such as my island of Vis, where last year a university is opened where such a provision will certainly help students who are studying on the island and perhaps encourage other island environments to open such institutions. The level of discount on privileged transport under these changes was determined by the minister while the price has so far been determined in such a way as not to exceed the transport price on lines of the same distance in the county road transport of the island's motherland. I don't know how this price has been determined so far, but I do know that this provision has never been implemented and that transport prices have been regularly higher. I hope the minister will be more just, that he will take care of the difficult economic situation on the islands and the ever-present depopulation of islands, especially islands belonging to the first group of islands under the Island Act. This law precisely defines the fee belonging to the shipowner and, at the level of the difference in income that the shipowner has not achieved due to the use of the right to the preferential transport of persons and vehicles. It shall also define the support of a shipowner which shall not exceed the amount necessary to pay the costs of the shipowners resulting from the performance of the public transport service obligation, taking into account the revenue achieved and the reasonable profit achieved. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. The Agency’s competence with regard to the determination of the navigation order has also been extended. Previously, the shipping order was coordinated in the County Chamber on a proposal from the shipowners, in the County Chamber of Commerce on a proposal from the shipowner at which all island mayors and mayors were invited, and other interested economic operators to comply with the needs of the islanders. I believe that the proposer should certainly consider including local self-government, establishing a navigation order because it is forming precisely for the needs of the islanders and not for the purposes of the Agency. I do not understand how units of local self-government will be involved in the adoption of the navigation order, or it may happen that the navigation order agency will bring the order on its own without respecting the island needs. I would ask the applicant to consider this problem and to install in Article 27 a way to involve local self-government, to determine the order of navigation or to arrange this issue within the framework of the rules to be adopted. It is also not clear new Article 29 amending Article 55 in which paragraph 3 is deleted. It allowed that if the ship cannot take over all passengers and vehicles, the shipowner would ensure continued public transport performance in accordance with the conditions laid down by the concession contract. Does this mean that the shipowner will not be obliged to provide continuous transport in the event that hundreds of passengers and vehicles remain behind the ramp in the summer months and cannot board. It would be a very bad picture for Croatian tourism and create enormous crowds in ferry ports. As each shipowner is obliged to provide a replacement ship, I believe it should not be a problem for shipowners to ensure the continued operation of transport in the event of such needs at the peak of the tourist season as it has been the custom so far. All in all, this law on amendments and additions to the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal maritime transport brings much more improvements than before, and therefore the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43613	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. The first one was Branko Bacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43614	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Ivcevic. In a significant part, I agree with you and everything you said, I almost would have signed it myself. However, here I disagree in a way, better said in an attempt that you are trying to defend the position of or eviction of professional people from the Management Council of the Agency and that of the representatives of the seamen, shipowners, Chamber of Commerce and the Croatian Register of Ships, by justifying it by the government's alleged position that it wants to take responsibility for the functioning of the agency. I might even believe that if it were the first time the government has intervened in a document that is also a basic act for the agency because of satisfying the political ambitions of its members and party comrades. And you know it very well. When it was necessary to take care or better say to hire the current mayor of Split, Mr Baldasari, to become the director of the Public Line Coastal and Maritime Transport Agency, which is this same agency, the government had to amend the statute to meet its ambitions. So this is, in all, one year, the second time that the government intervenes in the work of the agency in a way that enables people who tend to it to take care of themselves in one of the agency's leading places. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43615	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Ivcevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43616	Here's what I'd say is that the government certainly didn't take care of Mr. Baldasar, but she thought he was just an expert in that place and that he'd run the agency well as he'd shown over the past year and a half by publishing all the competitions and we actually got concessionaries for most of the lines on our entire coast. Also, I still believe that the government is very much responsible for the agency's work. We Assembly representatives of the islanders will certainly not be calm and we will ask for the agency to do well. In that, we will also call our ministers if it is necessary for the satisfaction of all the islanders, because here is the goal of the existence of the agency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43617	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43618	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Ivcevic, you've claimed in the final part of your exposure that this is a significantly better bill than it was the one that's worth boredom. Well, here's what I personally disagree with, and he leaves me a lot of doubts. I've already asked, we've heard here an explanation of people who don't have a place of residence, and there's a wider possibility of being covered by either free or privileged transport. However, I am interested in how this will work in reality when and when the law calling for benefits in domestic transport in Article 13 says that benefits of two basics cannot be used. How are you going to control who is using the advantage in one part of the transport so as not to get it in shipping or maritime transport? I'm very interested in that. Or which means in this Article 23 that the right to preferential transport shall have, for example, paragraph 4. healthcare professionals and vehicles when carrying out regular and emergency transports of patients from the island to the mainland and vice versa, and then they shall also have the right to free transport. So we have the right to both the privileged and the free. So what do we have? It's either free or privileged. I don't know, here's what leaves me doubt. And I don't know who it is, I think they wrote services inside the ministry, but I think the article would be clearer if exactly what it is and who it includes was free and who was privileged. Although it's already been settled by the Island Act. Or say today. It's only today that I get the impression that we're even introducing it for free or privileged when it's already over 10a-acre. I have a feeling that this text of the law introduces certain privileges. Although we all know that islanders, their priority vehicles have been doing it for 10 years. Well, I don't know what makes this law much better than the existing law, or maybe it's even better than the Island Law that solved all those problems that the islanders were torturing in time. I don't think it's from a proposal like this that doesn't show this nomotechnically arranged.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43619	We have a colleague Ivčević's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43620	It is well stated in Article 23 that privileged public transport includes free transport and discount transport. So it's privileged both, and then it defines that health care professionals have free of charge in that section. ... They don't, because the free is privileged. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] This is clearly defined in Article 23(1). As regards improvements, they are also in this Article 23, paragraph 6, which states that they have the right to have other persons who are entitled to do so under special rules to be defined by the Minister by the Regulation and who they are. In my debate, I said that this applies to disabled people and students who have in some way and boredom but only skillfully used that privilege. Because we had a case that when students come from within Croatia, those who could manage and send Jadrolini a request to give them 50% discount. Jadrolini did it regularly. We kind of want to legalize it and we want all schools and all high schools in the Republic of Croatia to know that they can get a discount. How much will he be, the minister will determine by his own rules. It was also broken all the time and the price of the service because we all know that the price of the vehicle on the ferry for the islands was much higher than it was determined by the law that was previously in force.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43621	Thank you. On behalf of HDZ Representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43622	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Honorary, Mrs. Markovcic, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. It seems to me earlier that the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport is almost for life on the islands and for the island's most important law passed by the Croatian Parliament. He dares to say that it is almost more important than that of our lex specialis of the Island Act because without quality traffic connection without good boats there is no life on islands, no tourism on islands, no economy on islands, no frequent connections simply on islands of anania possible to live. Therefore, this law was passed in 2006, the original law was passed sometime in the spring of 2006 when it was quite certain that we would become a member of the EU and when the legislation that this part had decided to slowly prepare for Croatia's accession to full membership in the EU and that we had done so well was a practical confirmation almost benign if I could thus say the amendment of the law which only accepts the directives. Therefore, the entire Croatian maritime and Croatian maritime legislation is, in the very nature of things, the world market and then the European legislation, and it should have been harmonised before. However, this law was adopted in 2006 primarily in order to make the island’s transport connection with land even better and better, and to increase the safety of maritime transport. That was the first reason. The second was the reason not to be small funds, and they came in the most recent years on 450 million kunas to be spent rationally on one hand and to be able to make more quality state control available by the agency on several occasions. And the third is not but the third and possibly most important reason for the adoption of this law is that we have allowed a market access to the operation of this traffic through the introduction of tenders for each of the lines of any ferry, whether the speedboat or the boat lines. We wanted to do two more things with this law, and this is primarily to protect Croatian shipmen and we did it because, in practice, these concessions that were recently scheduled, and this whole time almost no foreign company has been able to participate in this maritime traffic through the opening of a branch here in Croatia, no one has reported. And the fifth thing we wanted to protect Croatian sailors from having the almost exclusive right to be part of the crew on all these ships, which is mostly due to the provisions of this law that went in that direction. When we discussed this law seven years ago, the debate about it lasted, at least according to the experience of this convocation of the Parliament was inconceivable for three days. We've been discussing this law for three days here in the Parliament. there has been almost no committee of any body or representative who has not participated in the debate on this law. Among other things, the current deputy minister, Mr. Antesic, was now harshly against the law, saying that this law would practically make the Croatian island's traffic connection worse and could almost quote the immersion of Jadrolini. What happened to Jadrolinia in the meantime, I think we're all clear. Jadrolinija was never a better state-owned company because during all these 5, 6 years of law enforcement in the Jadrolinia fleet there were 14 ships, of which 8 new constructions and 6 high-quality ships and this is the period of the largest growth of the Jadrolinia fleet in its history. Well, not that this law did not harm, damage or sink Jadrolini he took Jadrolini with this law practically even Jadrolini was among other things and through this law because he and she acted on it seemed to me another step. I am also an islander, and I can say that this law has really improved the traffic connection of Croatian islands. And at the time when the law was passed, we did not know that in negotiations for Croatia's accession to full EU membership we would be able to obtain a transitional period for cabotage which we succeeded in 2010 which was signed on 9 December 2011 at the deadline of 31 December 2016, cabotage or transport, transport of passengers and water in Croatian territorial waters and inland waters was practically reserved for Croatian shipmen only. But then, not knowing that we will be able to do so through negotiations with the EU Commission, we have introduced this type of competition to allow the shipowner to win in the market in equal competition, regardless of whether we do business or not to pay for this transitional period for cabotage, he will, as long as his contract runs, be alone on that line and I will not be a European shipowner. And so the government's policy was not to rush the concession, and that was the reason why we were not forced to make concessions where we were not forced because no contracts had expired as was the case with the speedboats policy was that as much as possible and as later as possible the concessions of ferry and shipping lines so that the shipowners who won these competitions would win, and it would be Croatian shipmen regardless of whether they would ever be able to enable European shipmen to have an exclusive right to that part of a financial cookie that is not small and which is about 400 million a year, transfers to Croatian shipmen. Therefore, it is not the reason why Mrs. Ivcevic said earlier that the director of the agency is now successful because he has opened the competition but we have consciously done so. We didn't want to rush to the competitions we waited for the last bar it was like that while I was there and in our time not to rush it, we will slowly call the competition when we will and when we consider it to be for Croatian shipmen and Croatian shipping interests the most appropriate time. What this law brings, we've also heard. So we have no objections here, he implements our legislation of two regulations. One famous from '92 about cabotage, which I was already talking about, and this second one that gives the agency certain overpower in the section relating to the safety of passengers travelling in that section, in that part of maritime traffic. And that's good, we don't have any objections here, we'll accept that and we should have done that. But in the second part of the law there are two or three things. One thing before and Mr. Boric says this law does not bring anything new to the transport of the islanders. All that was in the Law or the Law on Islands is practically now divided in a certain way in one or two articles. Except that children up to 12 years old seem to me without a residence on the island will now have free transportation. That's what I support, good for you. It is okay to, here, that if it is possible for more people to be free of charge on the islands because every arrival on the island makes a clear contribution, it contributes to life on Croatian islands. I do not agree, I have already spoken in replicas with this view of the Government, I do not know why the Government irritates Croatian boaters, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Register of Ships, because it practically manages it, but Croatian sailors by getting kicked out of one agency from the board of directors of the agency where their presence is not only good, but not that it is good for that one, this one image of the Government that would talk about its desire to tripartitely decide on this segment of the economy because maritimeity is the same economy. It's necessary. None of the Croatian Register of Ships in this country knows better about new conventions on new rights, on new opportunities, on the safety of navigation, on the safety of shipowners from the Croatian Register of Ships. There's no such thing. No one on the rights of sailors to implement the General Convention on the Rights of Seamen knows better than the Seamen's Union. Which are a very important segment in the functioning of maritime transport. Instead of inviting them to come to the agency, the government is pushing them out of the agency so that she has a clearer responsibility for the functioning of the agency. I mean, it's sad for me that it wouldn't be funny. It should be retained by that composition of the Governing Council. There are clearly representatives of the Ministry of the Sea, representatives of the Ministry of Finance, representatives of the ministry whose jurisdiction are islands. But it really shouldn't have done that. I think this is a bad step that speaks of this terrible government's desire to put wherever it can, puts... at the heart of those who know the experts, who, how much simple is life's commitment, life's call. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And now a little about what this Law does not carry out well can despite its bad production. The first thing, this Law is a fundamental act, but it comes from two sublaws that, if they're bad then this law will be bad too. It is primarily a Regulation on concessioning lines that is good, which is good and which I have no objections to. But there's another act that's more important than both acts. And it is the government's jurisdiction, which is the decision to determine the ship's, ferry and high-speed lines, which determines the size of the ship on each line. The decision provides for the ship's capacity, which provides for the ship's capacity, which provides for the number of journeys per day. And this Law may be the best, but if this decision made by the Government does not contain everything that we live on the islands, we want, and it is a fast-quality, good ship, a large-scale ship, with a high capacity and a sufficient number of return journeys, then there is nothing from this Law. And there's the government, and there's the agency wrong for me which is not, which isn't when she called for a quick shipline tender she realized that from the moment that decision was made so far, life on the islands has changed. That over the past 10 years since the ship's fast lines have been established that some lines have already been established. That they have become and recognized, that they are used by a large number of tourists, that they are used by more and more guests who come to the island and not have to be foreigners etc., etc. And that what was good 10 years ago is not the starting point today. This is a classic example of the Split-Korčula line in the summer period and Prigradica, and during the year Korcula has become one of the most frequent lines on the Adriatic. And instead of just noticing that even the shipman who has held that line has in those 10 years changed four ships and each time bought a boat with a higher capacity, then that the government has concessiond that line on the basis of that last ship that was suitable for both speed and capacity has opened a tender with elements almost 10 years ago, and almost, produces a terrible dissatisfaction on Korčula. So it's just, it's just with, and there's cases like that on Korčula that are on other lines. And it happens that the largest catamarans on the Adriatic go to the smallest line per passenger. That's, well, I guess when the competitions were finally called, I guess someone should have noticed that there was a illogicality there and that before such a decision became able to wait a little longer, check it out, check it out and sort it out. Not to say I shouldn't have gone into rising speedboat traffic prices. Shouldn't have, these requirements were even before 7, 8, 9, 10 years ago that, that the price in catamaran fast shipping was increasing, we didn't want to do it because we knew that such an affordable price of fast shipping greatly increased traffic on Croatian islands, and a large number of tourists are coming to Croatia's islands. And not to say that this inter-island connection has been increased precisely because of such a price, the price of catamarans. And it's not good for the pre-season to increase anything 50%, before the season, to increase the price of a fast boat ticket by 50%. To all who come to the island and are not islanders, it's not a good message from one government, not even in such a difficult situation. For islanders it is not in absolute amount increased a lot 11% it is not a major increase in absolute terms but certainly not good. I commend and support that the law freed the fees of Croatian shipowners for the fuel they use, but still that amount will not be enough for everything that should be done to strengthen the position of Croatian islands and further step forward to improve life on islands. Here's because I'm running out of time then I'll do it later in an individual debate but now I'm just going to say one thing, so the HDZ club can't, unfortunately, support this law. We will tie our attitude to that amendment, but in any case, the least we will be restrained for the very reason we hold that there is no reason for persons, professions and institutions who can remove from agencies that essentially determine the life position of Croatian islands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43623	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43624	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you rightly warned at the very beginning of your debate at the time when the current law was passed, that the debate lasted for three days, not only the debate but we also went to the county centres and Split and Rijeka, if you remember and explained both the parliamentary representatives and all interested, which means the new Law on Line transport. Then we are accused of destroying Jadrolini, that we will transfer its headquarters from Rijeka to Split, that the agency will be one body that will finish that Jadrolini. When we compare what the Deputy Minister said at the beginning of the opening exhibition, that the volume that covers Jadrolini today in passengers is 85%, and in vehicles 87, it is evident that this Jadrolini did not fail, that this volume has fallen slightly, in part only in part of the passenger section because the small shipmen turned to this vision more than the transport of the vehicles themselves, means by purchasing the ferry. And today when we look at the weather and the situation of the island compared to what we rightly have to ask ourselves where the Croatian islands are going and how the islands are actually going to be, because here we listen to the praises, and you remember how much effort we made first to keep the island administration, we abolished, we turned it into the sector. We don't know what's going on inside the entire government system. The report on the implementation of the Island Law even though it has been a legal obligation for two years we haven't seen it, so the government ignores its own laws, i.e. He doesn't respect them, he doesn't want us here to see what happened in 2011 and 2012, now we're already in mid-2013, the question is whether we're going to get for this year etc. We have simply entered the stage of the verse where almost no movement like this is declared by the great events of the islanders, and in fact there is no change.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43625	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43626	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. That's right, fellow Boric. Namely, the latest report seems to me to have been for 2010 and it has already been a time of deep crisis if I can say the recession in Croatia. Still somewhere over a billion and 700, 800 million kunas were focused annually on the development of Croatian islands when funds were raised and the funds of all ministries were recapitulated. But not only the improvement of maritime transport and the transport connections of Croatian islands resulted in the adoption of this law but also more, you well know that the ship is not the only reason whether the island is well connected. There are a number of ports on the islands that we built, for example Rab, you know it very well, a wall was built, not to speak on all Croatian islands almost built new ports etc. Nightlines have been introduced for the Croatian islands, 90% is established under this law, and the Island Act has been practically permanently connected to the islands, except Korčula, which had the same connection on Orebic and Korčula's route a year ago. This law and the island law also enables the introduction of a vinjet that significantly cost the transport of vehicles that are registered on the islands and significantly contributed to entrepreneurs on Croatian islands. So that was one time when it really worked maximum for the Croatian islands and so you're right, here we are here today repeating everything that has already been written in the laws and it shows us as a big step by government. I would like the Government to really make a step, so instead of what is written there, another significant step towards the transport of Croatian islands is being made, so I believe that there are indeed places and ways to make life on the islands equal with all Croatian citizens living on land. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43627	Thank you. Next replica, Mladen Marelic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43628	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bacic, we've discussed this more than once, and I hear from you that we're doing a lot of staffing. Let's just look at the agency that the former director of the agency was almost a deputy director in a year, now he's v.d. again. The director, so he stayed in the system complete here. As for abolishing the board of directors, I think someone different who's better off working on that board because we've had a lot of hands and a lot of good decisions as I'm informed, they couldn't have gone for the people who looked at the narrow interests of their group and that. And I think the government made a good move making one cut at that and there's still gonna be professional people in there. And thirdly, what you said about good ships is, we've made so many bad moves that we have ships that I can't drive in a year or so. We have a boat that's been purchased, which drives the Split-Vela Luka-Lastovo route once a week that ship stays tied up in Split and we have to have a replacement ship that's used for that. It's a bad move because a good ship that's worth the summer time, and for the winter one can stay tied up. I think that's the means, so we have one ship that's not usable by Jadrolinia, it's not in service, because there's plenty of time not used.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43629	Thank you. My colleague Bacic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43630	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague... So you just confirmed what I said. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You are disturbed by the Governing Council of people who know, you are disturbed by the trade unions, you are disturbed by boaters, you are disturbed by the Chamber of Commerce, you are disturbed by representatives of the Croatian Register of Ships. So what? Let's get them out of the board and then we'll make decisions easily. Well, that's exactly what we're warning. Instead of leaving these people behind, so that in the discussion with them, we show in the argument that what the Government, i.e. the resolute ministries think it's good to make the most quality decision then the Government has a Solomonian solution to remove them and then we'll really make the very simple decisions that we like. It's an interesting approach. As for the Korčula ship. If the boat is Korčula and is not obviously hit for the outside islands we have for him a wonderful relationship of Stari Grad – Split. It's a great ship for that relationship so let's take a new ship that will have performances like Mark Paul, so let's sail for Vela Luka and Lastovo. I am blowing up both hands for such an investment, and here I call on Mr. Antesic and the Ministry to get a boat of the type Marko Polo as soon as possible and to guide it to Veli Luka and Lastovo, and this ship, the ferry you attack, we will leave it to Old Town and Hvar. I think the Hvarans will be too pleased.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43631	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representatives' Club Petar Baranovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43632	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate, respected colleague and colleague. On behalf of the Croatian People's Party club, I will try to explain the HNS's views as briefly as possible, and I can say for a start on behalf of the Croatian People's Party club that we will support this law. As some previous speakers have highlighted, it is no wonder that at the time of the adoption of such a law, a long and bold debate has been conducted because it solves the issue entirely, the fundamental question of the functioning of life on Croatian islands, and Croatia is one of those countries that I would dare to show to a rare country that is so many islands, such an archipelago, such divorce and that life on the islands is an unforgiving part of Croatian tradition, history, cultural heritage, whatever part of Croatian identity. And in any case, we can estimate that the preservation of life on the islands is one of the strategic goals of the Republic of Croatia. Clearly, without a quality connection, such a thing cannot be achieved. It is also quite clear that no matter how much through the adoption of laws and sublegal acts, we will never be able to achieve such a level of traffic connection through investment in sub-legislative means of living on islands. This law, these amendments and amendments to the laws are amendments and additions to the 2006 laws resulting not only in harmonisation, necessary compliance with what it brings to 1.7. already, as well as how much they can be pleased to note the shortages observed in the functioning of liner traffic, in concessioning, in carrying out this essential activity. This law provides an overview of the financial resources invested in this activity over the past years as well as the funds to be invested in the next period. It is clear that significant financial resources are also allocated from the state budget, although I stress never enough to give the islanders what we, as a society, would want and should give. Similarly, the structure of the shipowners doing the important work is shown. About 85% of passenger and goods transports Jadrolini with the participation of 12 smaller shipers. The number of concession lines from the total lines is also shown. And we who live and work in the coast, and through our profession of contact with this problem know that this concession system so far has had its shortcomings, that we have had a situation where concessions have crashed several times and that some lines have not been concentrated entirely, but we have had palitative solutions that have very often caused justifiable dissatisfaction from the island. We didn't have the ideal situation, because in certain situations of the line towards the islands, I'll say, I'm going to set an example of the Sibenik archipelago and the Sibenik islands were actually looking at ships and boaters that weren't conditioned for such a thing. And that's the policy of the ladies and gentlemen tolerating. That's a fact. I will not enter the reasons why certain shipmen who may have been able to operate on Lake Bled by such a vessel were given lines. But that's a fact. And the fact is that the ships were broken down, and I guess it's just the dear god wants it to happen on 40 knots of barrels, because if it happened on 40 knots of barrels, someone would be carrying a huge burden on their conscience today. However, what we see in this law as a good change is that it is in some way acceptable to accept the specificity of certain lines on which it really does not need to insist on carrying out ships that meet the conditions for carrying out state fast shipping lines because it is absurd that on lines shorter than 3 nautical miles such as the Brodarica line – Krapanj holds ships that sail for Lastovo, Korčula or Vis. This is too expensive, these are huge funds and respecting the specificity of my personal assessment is that the Line Transport Agency will be in a position to save on subsidies because the real subsidies for vessels required on such a line are significantly lower than what should be allocated to ships that satisfy the State Line Implementation Regulation. We are also pleased to see that this law provides for a privileged category in the purchase of tickets, but we from the CNS have a small observation of well-intentioned thinking that perhaps the author of this law in the formulation of Article 23 has made a random check, because it is said that Article 23 of Article 47 is amended and it is then defined as privileged public transport includes free transport and discount transport. The right to preferential transport in public transport has the following persons and lists the natural persons who have a residence on the islands means the island which is absolutely correct and then legal persons and owners of crafts based on the island. We would dare add, and in this direction we have made an amendment that this item reads: "Legal persons and craft owners based on the island or those on the island perform the regular economic activity necessary for the normal functioning of life on the islands." Because this is how we are in a practical situation where someone who performs on land regular activity and has a cottage on the island will transfer the seat to the island, will go with Mercedes privileged ticket to the island, and on the other hand on the island of Žirje is the recently shut down shop the only store and store that supplied the islanders. It has been shut down solely because of excessive costs, among which a significant share have the costs of transporting the truck that supplies needed for the life of the islanders. In the HNS, we also believe that it is justified that those companies or craftsmen who carry out a regular economic activity consisting of an integral part of the standards are particularly located on small islands, on remote islands must be allowed to have a preferential ticket for freight vehicles, and not without having clearly developed criteria by the very fact that someone will register their residence on the island to receive subsidies that may not be relevant to him in his regular business and of which the islanders have absolutely no benefit. In any case, we find this legal proposal correct. We are pleased that they are covered as privileged categories in the purchase of passenger tickets and special categories of citizenship, including disabled people, students and students. The islands should be made available. In any case, we will evaluate this bill as correct and support the vote. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43633	Thank you. Comrade Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43634	Thank you very much. At one point in discussion with a small dose of irony, you referred to the transport connection between the Sibenik islands and that shipowner who maintained the fast-ship line. However, it was only by law on occasional coastal transport that allowed it to look better today, if I am not mistaken. Because it was hard, I say, without introducing competition and market principle, to get better ships to appear. It took some time and here after seven years I think that time has shown. Now, are the Sibeniks satisfied now? It was at that time, as I recall, and I was quite often down there, with all the local committees showing pleasure and with such a boatman, they were pleased. Can they today be more content with this law? I don't see it. If we've already discussed it in the light of this law. However, the other thing you mentioned and the amendment you submitted could also introduce injustice, and then, given the economic activity on the islands, we might also give a discount to some banks. Do Business, Erst, Split etc. Because they also carry out economic activity of interest to the islanders, and I think they can pay, say, the full price of the map. The opening of Pandora's box, which is opened in Article 23, as it's nomotechnically written, I'm not contesting the Internal Transport Privileges Act, will simply make some things inconclusive. And as for the one who registered the cottage, has a cottage on the islands, and lives on land so with Mercedes preferentially come not possible if the car does not register on the island and if it does not report a residence on the island on the vinjet or privileged transport can not get. That's how it's been so long, and it's now written in this law even though it's been implemented so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43635	Thank you very much. Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43636	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. In that case, if you had the privilege, only islands with the status of the unit of local self-government would have, and smaller islands that are an integral part of the city of Sibenik would not have. When we're talking about registering an activity, right? Because I think if someone's registered to a jury, then he's registered in the city of Sibenik, and if someone's registered on Rab, then he's registered in Rab Municipality, or the city of Rab, I apologize. This amendment is the answer to the question of the situation... Please, colleague Shuker, please. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The answer to the situation where the inhabitants of the island of Žirje were found who do not have a shop. As a recent mayor, I contacted the spottically after that event with the trade chains. They all pointed out the same problem and do not want to agree to such costs to carry out the activity of trade. The jury needs to give an answer in this country how and how they will have a normal supply of food, it is an elemental need. And as for my observation on the quality of the vessel, my colleague Boric I am an expert ship's engineer, a seaman professional and what is known to happen on our individual lines, and in particular in this case is below each level of responsible and safe execution of the line and care for the safety of passengers at sea is that there has been a tragedy, and there have been failures and staying at sea at 40 knots of barrels, no one would have saved those people from the paraphis of any formalism and at least state bureaucracy and politics, people would have lost their heads. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43637	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is colleague Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43638	Thank you very much. Well, here's something I should say about amendments to the Law on the Transport of Line and on-going Coastal Transport. First of all, I'm gonna say that I'm glad there's an island 5, 6 of us here in the Parliament if I'm not mistaken, we have a deputy minister who's islanded, we have a minister who's also from the island, and all of this should be in function so that the islanders and during this government should be at least equal if not better. But I'm looking at everything that's been done especially with regard to the island, and I've already had no number of times and said it here in the Parliament. First of all, the separation of a professional and valuable administration, the Department of the Islands, which took great care of the needs of not only all islands and islands, but also of all those who came to these islands once a year and who did not exist in the last 8 years, but had existed since '95 in various forms simply reduced today to one sector that was lost in the great Ministry of Regional Development. Neither the sector today produces any new measures nor produces any new programmes, it is all about the verse and the implementation of all that remains in the legacy of the former time or time of the HDZ government. So we don't have any new programs, no new measures. We have less money in almost all positions, as well as in the position of public liner transport in the position of the agency in Split, which in this year has 30 million less than last year. And because of these 30 million kunas, there's been a public debate that's been going on for almost a few months now, mostly in the media, something's going on, so we've also had announcements about the introduction of some and island IDs and announcements that some Adriatic ships will be built, so they'll try to intervene through prices, so they've also raised prices not only seasonally but also island ships. Some will say it's not a lot of 10, 15, 20%. I will remind you of the time from 2005 when we reduced transport prices to Croatian islands ranging from 30 to 50% for islanders. It was then experienced with approval. I can say that this is part of the reason that I can say today that I have been driving cheaper than in 2003 and that this is also a burden for the shipowners whom this government has provided or allowed if it has already been able or wanted to influence that they are paying extremely high prices of energy used in transport. They are on average Kuna, Kuna and a half more than in 2011. When you spend 20 million liters of fuel to maintain transport in the Adriatic region towards the islands and from the island, it is clear that at the moment 30 million kuna is less and that it should be compensated somewhere. We've heard from the deputies about the suspension of excise duties, and we welcome that. We welcomed it when that law was here and we think it's a small part and a substitute that will help. Now we hear that a long line is lifted, given a possible new status. But a lot of these factors in that entire system simply don't show where we're going today. Under this law, Jadrolini himself is clearly and deeply bound, the issue of a three-member administration has been resolved for almost a full year and a few days. At the head of Jadrolinier, an inexperienced expert from 35 years of age who has never worked in a maritime system at all. We have strong announcements, however, of the results almost nothing. They're warning about that and the numbers. The level of travel of passengers and vehicles transporting our shipmen compared to 2010 is almost the same. We may have tens of thousands of more passengers and tens of thousands of vehicles. The system obviously reaches or reaches its limit. The question is, can this system survive if we don't have the increase we've had. During the period 2004-2008 when the number of passengers increased from 8 million 140 thousand 2004 to 11 million and 150 thousand passengers 2010. When you have an increase of 3.5 million passengers and an increase of nearly 600 or 700 thousand vehicles then it is clearly worth investing in such a system, designing measures to make it progress further and finding measures or models how to further increase the total number of passengers per year. However, when he stagnates, even on the fast-tracking lines and falls, then clear signals are that we are not doing something right. Is this law going to change? I don't think so. Will 3, 2 members of the Governing Council contribute less to the Agency? He won't. Will this contribute to the introduction of a category without residence into such one for me a double nomotechnically executed way too? I don't think we're gonna get anything special with that. Because those who wanted to consume rights had the opportunity to do so under the same law if it hadn't changed for 13 years in the same way. I said it was nothing from the ships. I'll remind you only in the period 2004-2010. 12 new ferrys of Jadrolinije, Marjan, Cres, Bol, Sveti Krševan, Zadar, Supetar, Juraj Dalmatinac, Hrvat, Ilovik, Biokovo, Jadran, Korčula and two catamarans Karolina and Novalj and two ferrys of the Rape navigation of St. Marin and Barbat. We don't have a new ship in the Adriatic after a year and a half. We have an announcement that it might be next year. We have an attempt by small boaters to compete in the area where concessions are scattered and show toughness and knowledge and bring better and better quality ships even from the state shipowner himself covering I say almost 90% of the entire area in traffic. When we look at saying the level of subsidies, it varies from 200 to 2010 but on average somewhere with 370 million kunas covered an entire volume that is also in force today, it hasn't changed much, however, we've listened to announcements about smaller frequencies, even about the removal of night lines. We introduced the night lines in 2006 to allow 90% of all islanders to communicate with the mainland almost 24 hours a day. Until then, it wasn't possible. In those days until 2003, the islands closed at either 8:00 or 9:00 a.m. with the last line. And it often comes to the argument of rationality or economic indemnity. At that moment when we go into this economic cost-effectiveness, then everything becomes excessive and any explanation of whether we need support, subsidies, or not at all. Because economic viability has proved to be in transport we only have six lines. And as for the very part where I say to God, they reintroduce certain privileges. The rules of the vignette are clear or the release of the vignettes. And they were just copied in this Article 23. The law. I don't think they're any different from what's written in what's being carried out since 1. 4. In 2005, when more than 40,000 vinjets were divided in the first part of the list of the Ministry of the Interior and by today, here is what I have managed to catch over 52 thousand vignets for vehicles that have this right, which have both a residence and a seat on the islands, I am talking about a natural and legal person. So, really, except for this part where the number of members of the Governing Council is being replaced or reduced and with the fact that that two European Union directives are introduced or clarified, this Law essentially brings nothing, nothing new. [[Intruder: Finalize the debate.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43639	Thank you. Replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43640	You mentioned the suspension along the coast line from Rijeka towards Dubrovnik. When Mrs. Ivcevic spoke on behalf of the SDP Club, it is possible that cities and municipalities on the islands are now partly in place of the agency, i.e.... The state budget is participating in her... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think she, as Mayor of Komiže, knows the state of the urban and municipal budgets on Croatian islands. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that the subsidy is necessary for the regular functioning of that line is equal to almost all budgets, almost all cities and municipalities on Croatian islands together when the annual line is introduced, the regular annual line. But what, where there is room to allow, in addition to the state budget, to include another generous fund, i.e. Croatian Tourist Board. Namely, if the Croatian Tourist Board has the means to advertise on global advertisers and promote the Republic of Croatia, I think that given the fact that there are over 2 million tourists on the Croatian islands that almost 12 or 12.5 million overnight stays on the Croatian islands, that this ship that is one of them, that line and that ship that connected and sailed along the Adriatic coast is one of the major tourism promoters on the Adriatic, and that this way could possibly help re-return this line at least during the summer season, at least during the summer, to make it an occasional line and not clearly seasonal. Because we heard that according to the aquis she can't be. That's why I think it's really possible to do that. I know there's no funds now, although with this savings he's providing to the ship's non-payment of excise duties, I think it could be found now for its establishment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43641	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43642	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Bacic here I'll read you a part of the interview of the new president of Jadrolinija who said about that line, he says: for the near future we'll look for other options. We can talk about the blue magistrate, see if the European funds are ready to support such a project. Along the coastal line of Rijeka-Dubrovnik we will preserve, those are his words. Now we see that along the coastal line will not be preserved, that's what I said there's no harmony between the Jadrolinia administration as the largest ship that covers 90% of the entire area and what's happening through this law, and this law clears that line and we come back to the situation where we were and in many other ministries to speak through the law, the other through some important institutions, and then we're where we are. Every little shift of this power is experienced with a big round of applause, and it's almost gone. They were always maximum requirements before, and if the maximum requirements were not met, such authority or someone else or who had conducted certain activities would have been deemed unsuccessful. I do not know what I should say more about this policy towards the Croatian islands, except that it is said again in one verse, failure and that I fear that given the treatment that the islanders receive, we will question everything that is clearly, unequivocally in the Law on Islands that will continue, and that I will try to explain all these failures as something great, good for us, and the collection of ticket prices, and even fewer lines, and the removal of night lines. It will all be on the well-being of Croatian islands and islanders, and whoever survives I say then will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43643	We're continuing the debate. A colleague of Đurjica Plancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43644	Thank you, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Well, it's impossible for me who spends my whole life living on an island to avoid discussing this law, and at the same time, it's difficult for me to be objective in this debate. In fact, explaining to the rest of the country what is meant for us islanders is transporting in line coastal transport is indeed a difficult, almost impossible task. How to organize life with a predetermined possibility of going to a doctor, business partner, to trade, to attend a sporting or artistic event when the first newspaper arrives and supplies arrive at 12 o'clock or when the ship does not sail due to the weather only the islanders know it. That's why I think on their behalf I have the right to say that this transport means life to us. Clearly, we islanders would like as often as possible, faster, more comfortable, safer and, of course, cheaper lines regardless of their rentability, which is clearly limited and depending on the provided budgets and there is a need to find balance. I assure you that we islanders are not unreal people and that we are very well aware of the difficult economic situation in the country and we do not expect impossible, only respect for specificity and more equal living conditions. It is true that in recent years large funds have been invested in improving line maritime transport, both in the construction of new ports and in the introduction of new high-speed lines and ships, and that there is a constant and large means of supporting ships on non-resilable lines. However, as the economic crisis began in early 2008 we see the stagnation and reversing that we felt painfully on Hvar, when we were cut off from a vital daily journey with which we had never been reconciled to this day. The funds provided by the budget from year to year are reduced which makes us concerned about retaining the existing situation and reaching the travel standard. And now we have changes and additions to the law, so I'm going to comment on them in the most important segments. HAS ADOPTED THIS REGULATION: This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to officials and temporary staff in the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area of the ‘Communication’ policy area. 3577 from '92. The amendments and additions shall extend the tasks entrusted to the coastal maritime transport agency and shall amend the composition of the Governing Council of the Agency. The reduction in the number of members of the Governing Council from 7 to 5, as well as clearer provisions on the composition of the expert commission for the implementation of the concession procedure should contribute to the operationality and efficiency of their work, which the practice will quickly show. This amendment shall give the Agency’s Management Board the power to determine the maximum amount of the transport price and to determine the sailing schedules. The price of services so far has been determined by the shipowner who received the concession, who should have been given the consent of the agency. A new solution which determines the maximum amount of the price, and I consider the shipowner to be better, since this predetermins the highest possible price of transport. In doing so, I believe that representatives of the Ministry of Management will make sure that liner shipping is also used by all our guests who are already travelling to islands too expensive, as well as owners of numerous island properties, whose residence is on land, who play a very important role in preserving life on islands and who do not have any convenience in transport. I also support amendments to the laws that define more precisely which persons have the right to free, i.e. privileged public transport and the right to privileged transport extend to vehicles owned by craft owners based on the island and users of Leasing, which will certainly contribute to the development of entrepreneurship on the islands, but also to Peljesac peninsula, which is referred to as the peninsula to which all these rights apply. For now, we cannot know how much this privilege of the island's population will be because a decision on the level of discount will be made by the minister within 60 days of the date of entry into force of this law. I express my belief that no announcements will be made in the media at which transport prices for islanders will rise and I appeal to the Government and, in particular, to the Minister that, when deciding on this, they bear in mind the provision of the Island Law which says that the price of public transport on lines linking islands with land and islands to each other for island residents must not exceed the transport price on lines of the same distance in the county road transport of the island's motherland. The granting of the Agency's authority to determine on its own the order of navigation without prior consent in the county economic chambers as it is now regulated I don't consider it a better or better solution, here's why. As mayor of the city on the island in recent years, I have been involved in the process of harmonising sailing schedules. The process was attended by other than representatives of the shipping agency, representatives of the port administration, the port captains, the Chamber of Commerce and representatives of local self-government units on the islands. Although the process was painful, sometimes bile and emotional representatives of the islanders had the opportunity to justify the needs of their islanders and very often successfully corrected the navigation order according to these needs or aligned it with the driving orders of other modes of traffic. It is certain that the process of harmonising the sailing schedules should have been reviewed and simplified, but it is not possible to abandon the participation of the islanders in the procedure. This proposal does not state anywhere which reasons may change the order of navigation which, in my opinion, should be prescribed by law in the interest of passengers. It is also left out to ensure the continued operation of the transport in case the shipowner cannot take over all the passengers and vehicles that have already reached the standard, so I hope that this obligation will somehow be installed by the concession provider when setting the conditions and criteria for the award of the concession. Finally, these amendments and additions are prescribed to establish a system of information, which is very important from the perspective of a simpler booking of ticket purchases, but also especially from the aspect of control of how the use of perks in transport and of shipowners in the use of state support. In fact, we are witnessing very frequent abuses as a privilege by passengers, but also by crews of shipowners and damage to the budget but it is certainly not negligible. I only hope that all islanders will not be forced to draw up special cards that have been announced in the media. In my opinion, this would be appropriate and acceptable only for those groups that have the right to free transport, such as practice and other modes of transport. Finally, despite some of the objections that I have made to this bill, I will support the adoption of these amendments and the addition of the laws, since it is primarily about the necessary compliance with EU rules but it also brings about improvements in the conditions and organisation of transport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43645	Thank you. Comrade Josip Boric, here's a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43646	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Plancic, just so it doesn't stay that way in the law unclear, because you said this law only introduces a discount for, say, personal and cargo vehicles of natural and legal persons. No, this law doesn't introduce it. This was introduced in 1.4.2005 by introducing vignettes and clear rules, and the rule first is: It is worth a discount for all passenger and freight vehicles registered on islands of natural and legal persons who have a residence and a seat on islands, on all state, ferry lines connecting islands with the mainland and islands of each other. Then we still had the Leasing Society. And we solved that, and it's written here. So the minister won't determine any tariffs or discounts because it's determined by shipowners with their price card based on the island tariff, and to which the agency agrees if I'm not mistaken. So I guess the minister will say it himself, now you'll be driving for so many boaters. I don't think so. Next, about the part where you talked about these other discounts. And they're already incorporated, and I say it all the time through the Island Law, including the existing 2000 law, and whoever wanted them could have used them that way. I'm saying you're acting and putting this law as something new, and there's basically nothing new. Nothing here is new and nothing is going to change and I tried to explain it in my individual debate. The islanders all the same with a little more expensive cards. Again with the agency's decision those seasonal flights flew behind all the particularly fast shipping line which was once again not in favour of the island and island, so that these praises of yours simply don't find any justification for me. Because everything that's written in the law has been going on for eight years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43647	The answer to the replica of Đurjica Plancic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43648	... I also found him a grudge, and obviously we don't understand this law the same way. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] [[Storage Zgrebec: Turn on the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43649	We're moving on with the debate. A colleague, Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43650	Thank you, ma'am, Deputy Deputy Deputy Secretary, The same law is for us islanders as one rule of life. We know this law includes 56 state lines. If 13 boaters, houses, boat houses, 77 ships are involved in it, if 11 million transports are made, if 2 million and 700 car transport means that it is quite a receptive law and around it we must keep an eye on. I think the ministry did well to expand the work, the activity of the agency because the agency is in the work itself, personally I'm not satisfied with the work of the agency, but it now stems from a large number of managements inside and di could not get to the correct work and sometimes personal or individual interests have prevailed over the interest of us for which this agency was founded. It is good that you have expanded the support, because we all know that the support has spread to disabled people anywhere their place of residence, whether it is on islands or on the Peljesac peninsula, means other parts of the country can have these subsidies, and the benefit of that. It's also good when schools we... to know that in pre-seasons and seasons students, high school students come to the islands when hotels are not even filled in that it's a kind of help and I think it's a direct help on the economy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's really a good move from the government. I'm a little bit about this law, so the amendments in Article 6 of the Di, the word deletes the length of the line. I don't think we can accept it, and I'd really like to think about it and try to solve it again. Because when we know that this line that is a long line 101 goes from the River-Split-Stargrada-Korčula-Dubrovnik means connecting the two largest cities of the north and south and that this is a line that really means a lot to us on Korcula I can only tell you that when that line worked the whole season that we had, Korčula had 400 thousand nights. I'm coming down in 2011, I think there was a reduction in 2011, that the number that means... in the semi-season line, the seasonal line, has fallen by 100,000 overnights. That it's a significant fall. It was also important for us to have 50% almost, or 48% of the passengers who used that line used to land or board in Korčula and as 45% of the cars used the same part. So, Korčula was where it was used. Also, we find it interesting to think about the survival of that line, but also all of us together, that there are 120 other crew members who are losing their jobs on it. And we can also use this very attractive part of Croatia from Rijeka to Dubrovnik where the use of this boat can be well used. Deputy, you gave in your statement that there was a decline in the use of that line. If there was a decline, we all know when the Marko Polo ship came down to replace the ship Liburnia, which is 50% less capacity than Marco Polo. And we all know that we're all using, we're looking for a map that can't be won in the season and the post-season because the ship is very small capacity. So it's that line that would be worth a lot better if it increased the ship and that ship that was intended for it, like Marco Polo and that. Because the current ship of 671 passengers and 93 cars, and we know that, she was, was given a budget when it was made on cars that were then quite smaller and the size of the width and theirs today are quite some others so it's not 93 anymore but it comes under 80. The next is quite attractive that line if the ship that was, however, the "Liburnia" is an old ship, with a faster boat that would go to late hours from Rijeka around 22 hours he would already be in Dubrovnik in the morning at 11 o'clock and it would be some lengthy line that would be interesting for guests, especially for our trucks and passengers and cars when we haven't even been to Schengen yet. So it would be useful to make good use of it all together. As for the real assessment, I would really ask the ministry to take another look at it, see if we can find real opportunities to keep that line as a complete year and to be able to finance it according to EU rules. But I couldn't not finish if I didn't mention the last decisions of the agency on the scheduled tender for the use of speedboat lines. This is the last high-speed line in the Korčula-Hvar-Split line, which is 58 miles, a line carrying about 150 thousand passengers. Also, the line of Lastovo-Vela Luka-Split that transports here about 130 thousand and Vis-Split thinks Hvar-Split what goes from 30 miles to about 50 grand. I would ask the ministry to form a commission or something to make an insight into the proposed concession for the area and not let the agency give the concession before the revision is carried out. Because it's a direct attack, and it's a much worse relationship, which is what we got for Korčula, much worse and a boat that drives 20 years old and we've had a much better ship before and with much better capacities. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43651	Thank you. Comrade Branko Bačić, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43652	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here I, in the name of the club, expressed the view of the HDZ club, which in short comes down to the following, so this law, except in the part which implements the two European regulations that we are obliged to join Croatia in full membership and implement nothing worth mentioning, brings anything else. In particular, in the part relating to the provisions governing privileged, i.e. free transport to islanders, all that is included in the laws which are in force, which is the existing Law on public line coastal transport, on the one hand and on the other, in the Island Act, has been established and explained. What is not good and what we want and I will in that sense and give the amendment that is that the Government gives up this desire to persistently her way of working and thinking comes down to the fact that similar ones have an advantage in this government over professionals and those who know best. And I therefore believe that it is necessary for the government to correct this law in that part. What I said in the replica to Mr. Deputy is that more for us, I say in southern Croatia, this relationship is not random, it is not a set of different legal circumstances that determine in a certain way the position of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and then the Peljesac peninsula, and above all the island of Korcula. It seems to me that this is more of a systematic policy that simply abandons the south of Croatia. And that's what I said. We were supposed to take the highway to the record last year. It wasn't finished. The Pelješac Bridge is where it is, we don't know how and how it will continue to build the Pelješac Bridge. Substitute for all those who will not be able to pass from July 1st through Neum, and those will be very much, is the ferry line Ploche-Trpanj. The last government has made the necessary advances to allow for the quality ferry to be brought to that line on July 1st, and the quality ferry implies a ferry of almost double the capacity of an existing or at least double the capacity that we do not know so far in Dubrovnik-Neretva County if you, Mr. Deputy, know what ship will come here and save the situation of all those passengers who are heading south of Croatia and who will not be able to pass through Neum for various reasons, or BiH has not yet been announced. I don't know from an existing fleet of Jadrolinia that the ship will be able to get on that ferry line without being broken then that line from which that ferry will be removed, or removed and directed to the ferry line Ploče-Trpanj because there will be no existing ferry... being able to serve. Furthermore, this government has done nothing in the section relating to traffic control, or almost nothing, traffic across Peljesac. Yesterday we had a car accident on Peljesac precisely because it is already slowly beginning to grow that traffic through Peljesac. In some places there is a main road that will run towards the south of Croatia less than 4 metres wide. We warned that over the past year, at least critical points have spread. It wasn't done either. Then Mr. Marelic spoke about the agency because I would not say ignorance, but I would say that I would like to open a tender for Korčula, which was then made possible by a catamaran who was inappropriate for the size of the island and that city and who would enter on July 1st. So far below the standard that's still on that catamaran line. And now, as the crown of all things, an even longer line is lifted. Therefore, I really do not see that it is quite an accident that all this is happening south of Croatia and towards Dubrovnik-Neretva County. And then you in response, Mr. Deputy, you told me that I should keep my mouth shut because you said 25 lines a day outside the season and 30 lines in the season. And because of this, 70 million kuna should be allocated from the state budget for Korcula, which is 20% of the total funds allocated from the state budget. For your information first, Korčula is an island of 16 thousand inhabitants, but these funds are not only intended for Korčula, these funds are intended for Hvar, because those ships that and the ferry, or catamarans that go towards Korčula stop on Hvar, some continue towards Lastovo and only from Split 62 nautical miles, some continue towards Mljet and Lastovo, depending on whether they have a starting port of Dubrovnik or Split. So most of the lines you're talking about on the island of Korcula were back in the '60s. And you're not going to tell me that our advantage is that we have the starting port of Orebic? For the 25 lines with which Korčula is connected with the mainland is the starting port of Orebić. And for your information from this House, it's 630 km from this building to Orebic, and by the way, you have to go through another state. So here you can see what a privilege it is for us to have 25 starting lines from Orebic which should be reached by passing through another state and from Zagreb only passing 630 km. I think that if we look at as much and as much as the island has and what kind of traffic connection that would be the government's wrong view of Croatian islands because no matter how much we invest in the traffic connection of Croatian islands, the islanders will always be discriminated in that part. So listening to you almost sounds to me like he meant Mr. Prime Minister seriously when he said that when he was on Korčula that our isolation was our advantage. That the island's isolation and the advantage of us is island. It seems to me that with this kind of government policy, we are really going to be ahead of all the rest of the people on this planet. Because as you started as far as we're concerned, we're really going to have a great advantage according to the words here's Mr. President of the Croatian Government, and apparently you've confirmed that, too. That's why I think it would be a good idea, Mr. Deputy, to take seriously what we are telling you and in the section relating to the catamaran connection between Korčula and the part that concerns you because you are the Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and in the part that refers to the normal functioning of traffic in southern Croatia after 1 July. The fact that Pelješac is being restored at this point around me seems to be 2.5 or 3 km of roads and from Trpnja to Stone, or until the return to the mainland is about 45 km, and only one part of it has been restored, is not a good government policy. There'll be trouble this summer, you'll see, on Peljesac. It will be a narrow throat and it will not be possible to establish normal traffic in southern Croatia right in the part of the Peljeka road. Croatian roads have on several occasions pledged to resolve the issue of Peljeska road. There's nothing done or better said almost nothing. The answer may be the answer I listen to from both the Government and the Minister, and some of the representatives, it is because you did not accept it, because you did not accept that the ferry line Komarna – Briesta is established because a barren response, namely because the serious government that intends to connect two separate Croatian territories in any way will then do so on the part of the aquarium between the two ports of Komarna and Briesta. Be it a bridge, be it a tunnel, whatever it is it will be established there in that space and in that space where there will be some kind of building for which we in the club of the Croatian Democratic Community think that the bridge is the only solution to establish a ferry connection, so that it would be less driving along, with vehicles along Peljesac is unserious because you can't build a bridge if you set up ferry traffic at that location, and by the way, a study of environmental impact prevents it because it's a special reservation where your government doesn't allow even fishing. So, in this aquarium, we should not fish, and we should establish a ferry link that makes for the biodiversity of the Bay of Maloston where and where more damage than we would do to small boats that would fish there in the Bay of Maloston, and that would then, at the position of your government, damage the Bay of Maloston. So it's no argument and don't tell us that. You need to set up some impromptu line where there's no docks yet, where there's not even a port yet, where there's nothing, where there's no access roads. Well, that's why we're punishing you, and we're not setting up a road across Peljesac. It is a barren, false answer and you must do it as soon as possible because this summer life in southern Croatia, in Pelješac, Dubrovnik for all those who cannot pass through the territory of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and that is all those who carry the value of more than 10,000 euros, who carry live animals, who carry a burden that must be checked...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43653	Thank you. Comrade Bačić, you have two replicas and you will proceed. We could discuss the law a little bit, but then. Replica Mladen Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43654	... Your so-called assault when we all know that you tried to lift along the coastal line and that you had abolished this line. [[Specially enabled.]] Comrade Bačić, that line was time-consuming. I mean, if we're gonna talk about it here. The next eight years you were in power and what did you do on the bridge? You could have built it if there were no other intentions between your insides. Next Peljeska Road. In 2003, the government of Ivica Racana paved the road. Since then, for eight years, you have done nothing in power. We came and was already part of that road rehabilitating that were sliding roads. This is the moment when representatives of the Croatian roads gave the hints and met... It's done and it's done. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for catamarans, the Komarna ferry – Briest, the ferrys could drive, the bridge would work together and we could avoid Peljesac to be driven by those who don't have to drive it, and it was really stubborn and make one thing for ourselves we don't want to bridge anything else. It's not a replacement ferry for the bridge, it's until the bridge's over. That's the way it was supposed to be. And there were lots of stories, maps. I know that when I buy a ferry ticket, I come to Vela Luka to buy a ferry ticket for Split 25 kn or Catamaran 27. I mean, that's where you drive two, three hours into cards like that. I think, as far as the valley is concerned, we're satisfied with the price of the tickets. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43655	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43656	Comrade Marelic, you know what it means to do, build a bridge, and come, take responsibility for Croatia and not have any of that bridge or deal with the neighbouring country, no location permit, no project, no concession, no access roads, no port building. It's all done. A building permit was issued, a study of justification for the construction of the Peljev Bridge. An environmental impact study was made, an agreement was signed with the neighbouring country, works started, you interrupted it. Success in six years is to solve it together and start building a bridge in six years. Because here it's been two years since you've been in power, you still don't know how to put it together. You ask the European Commission to tell you how you should connect the south of Croatia. And here we expect every day that Europe has not told us that we should connect that bridge without saying that you have reached no agreement with the neighbouring country, and you do not know that it is practical and the basic elements of the bridge with the neighbouring country are agreed. As for Pelješka cesta, Pelješka cesta is arranged on several occasions in the part where it should be an integral part of the future road over Pelješac when the bridge is built. And this is what was done and what this government has kept forgetting that first of all it is necessary to start building the bridge, that it is necessary to proceed with the arrangement of the Pelješka road, and that until then it is necessary to do everything possible to make life in Pelješac and in the south of Croatia normal. After this summer with a government like this, life will be impossible, and you know it very well. You say you did something. Say how much? You have reconstructed a mile and a half of road that is 60 km long per year and you knew that after 1.7 you follow a new regime at the border in Nemo, that you should do everything to allow at least as much normal traffic through Peljesac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43657	Thank you. Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43658	Thank you very much. Well, dear counterpart Bačić, you've explained the problems of the Dubrovnik-Neretva County and the government's relationship to that part of the Republic of Croatia, and this could be understood under that poem "The southerner this sadder". And that's exactly how they behave. But even that's not the problem, it's the problem when someone comes from that neighborhood, and they support the law that even more insulates him, the removal of this long line, which says he's uncomfortable because he pays 25 kuna, and he would pay 100 as an islander because then it would be a contribution to the state budget and thus suggests that the state should actually go a little harder on the islanders because this so far was not enough. I'm surprised. Because it's just that sometimes a man doesn't believe in his ears what he hears and then he starts to explain everything he doesn't need. And then success is a mile of road on Peljesac. That's what I keep saying. Every minimal shift, and that's exactly what's minimally below three decimals, is in any area as big as this government's house. And before that, the maximum requirements were declared a disaster or anything, and everything was almost respected and met. And it is not surprising then that that city that they had, I think, for a long time where they were in power like the SDP, such as the town of Korčula, that they lost it with exactly that kind of relationship because they are good and the worse catamaran and the elimination of those lines and the more expensive should be the price, and then it is the right policy towards Croatian islands, especially against Korčula and Dubrovnik-Neretva County.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43659	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43660	So, my colleague, Boric, I am not surprised that my colleague Marelic, who supports his government's position, is clear to me, although I believe that no one has asked him anything, because if anyone had asked him anything, he would not have agreed with the suspension of the long line and that Korčula has an even smaller catamaran than he was before, which is still sailing, and the smaller one will begin to sail on July 1st. But I am surprised that it does not support us in Dubrovnik-Neretva County regardless of the political option of building that bridge as soon as possible, that we are not waiting for the European Commission's position on how we will be connected, that the construction of that bridge does not have to depend on the European Commission's resources. If they come, she'll be welcome anyway, we'll be happy to see them. But if we don't get that bridge, we still have to build it. So that's what I'm surprised at. I'm surprised we don't do everything we can to improve this road on Peljesac, I'm surprised that here's what doesn't advocate that the Croatian roads are already continuing their work on the arrangement here's this Peljesca route. That's what I'm surprised at. And the fact that Mr. Marelić will support his own government in such a bad law is part of the party's discipline that clearly needs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43661	Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Zdenko Antesic's closing statement. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43662	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. I must say that I have listened with attention to your discussions, and it will definitely be a good contribution to the application, i.e. greater attention to the application of this law, and that this coastal liner system is controlled, or that it works in the best way possible for users, which primarily applies to people on the island and living on the coast and others, to be of general benefit. I'd like to make sure he doesn't stay inexplicably oblivious to the allegations of some debaters who perhaps out of lack of information have presented facts that don't stand. In the preparation of this law, i.e. in the preparation of the procedure for subsidising these lines we held a broad debate, we divided the entire Adriatic into several water areas, that is Rijeka, Zadar, Sibenik, Split, Dubrovnik and held talks with all interested factors, so with representatives of the units of local self-government, with a chamber, with representatives of the shipowners in particular. So with all possible stakeholders and reached an agreement, so one high degree of consent in solving this problem. This resulted, therefore, that this system of lines that is now in place in one part and which is concessed so that there is virtually no significant change. There were some, there are some deviations of some lines. Therefore, better economic use of ship and other resources and absolutely no increase in the price of ferry tickets compared to the previous period, and an increase in the price of catamaran transport is almost insignificant. If we ride with a comfortable ship from Split to Vis before 23, and now 27 kuna, then we must admit that no matter how skilled or less skilled the politicians are, then we must if we put a finger on the head, we must admit that it is insignificant. And that in today's time when the state can't simply bear the burden of this kind of service in the public sector, it's actually an increase completely insignificant and the state makes a huge effort to keep this system rational and relatively high in my court. Far from that, I as an islander should not be convinced that it should be better, that there should be more frequent lines, etc., etc. But if we're going to be rational and fair to ourselves and to the citizens, then we have to admit that's the case. The subsidies in the state budget are as already said 355 million kuna, and when we attribute it and what we certainly have to release from excise duties for the fuel price then it is about 300, so almost 400 million kuna, which is more significant than in recent years when I dare say to the current general socio-economic and any other situation was well-being. So that the state, or government that some so gladly attack, is doing nothing and devastationing this society into the abyss makes huge efforts to maintain in that part, not only sustains but also improves the system. I'd like to look back at the so-called. a longline to make a clear distinction, i.e. the difference between the concept of longline and the state line 101. So, according to the Council of Europe Regulation on cabotage, which becomes an integral part, which is simply implemented in our legislation, then a long line is a line connecting places on the coast. So other than some exceptions to fjords, etc., it connects places on the coast without touching the islands. Our line, the state line 101, which is a Colloquial called the longline Rijeka-Split-Hvar-Korčula-Peljašac-Dubrovnik, it is a coloroquiyally called longline but it is not in its essence a long line. So she doesn't belong in that category. In 2010, it was declared a seasonal line precisely for what I was telling you in the introduction that traffic had fallen significantly in this line for the reason that we built a highway system and objectively stopped the need to transport it. And I must admit that because of perhaps inadequate ship and inadequate shipping order and some other elements of traffic, it is not only by road construction but perhaps for some other reasons, but it requires a special debate. And I personally believe that, when setting up the shipping order for next year, a serious issue should be raised, of course, along with a potential shipowner, which in this case is our state shipowner Jadrolini, the issue of survival of that line, which is how it can function. I personally think that she may and may need it, that she is not just an expression of one nostalgia for the ship's connection between the north and the south, etc. but that it can in the light of the good future and tourist and economical particular coasts, coasts and islands it can find its place, but should naturally set up an adequate ship, an adequate sailing order with adequate facilities and then it probably won't need subsidies from the current around 50 million kunas a year, but probably it could also function by some other criteria. I think we should open a serious debate about this. I would not speak of Mr. Bačić's observations, only I was, of course, a representative in one term and I would not like to be put into my mouth words that I did not say. But I remember my discussion in the adoption of the 2006 Law and my regret was focused on the comparison of the former Yugoslavia and the present Adriatic because we know ourselves how our former largest shipman in the country ended, one among the four largest in the world, and if this discussion has produced a fruit that we today have a Jadrolini such system as I am then proud of it. Now, thank you very much for your beautiful representatives and for your high-quality observations on this law, and here I think that we as a ministry and as a government will make more efforts to keep this coastal liner transport system not only in this quality but also in the future advanced. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43663	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43664	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 398. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislatives Committee, the HNS Representatives' Club and MP Branko Bačić. I ask the Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Honorable Sinisha Hajdash Doncic to show about the amendments. Amendment No. 1. The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43665	Amendment No. 1. The Legislative Committee, is that an amendment to the article?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43666	19.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43667	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43668	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. Article 35 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43669	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43670	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 3. of Article 38.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43671	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43672	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43673	For the purpose of the transitional provisions of this Act is to refer to Article 13(4) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on transport in line and occasional coastal transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43674	I'd like the chairman of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43675	We're pulling back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43676	Thank you very much. Amendment No. 4th of Article 39, Honored Ministers?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43677	It's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43678	An explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43679	In the light of the fact that the intention in the transitional provisions of this Act is to refer to Article 47(6) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, Law on transport in line and occasional coastal transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43680	What?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43681	He's retreating.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43682	Thank you very much. Amendment of the Club of HNS Representatives, the Honorable Ministers?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43683	The amendment of the HNS Club to Article 23 is not accepted because the law seeks to stimulate economic activity on the island and in this sense... refers to island operators. The adoption of this amendment would lead to a major expansion of the circle of persons entitled to preferential transport and thus to the collapse of the entire system of privileged transport.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43684	On behalf of the applicant, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43685	Thank you, Mr. President. I'm sorry about the lack of understanding of matter, but we're withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43686	Thank you very much. The amendment of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43687	The amendment of the representative Branko Bačić to Article 13 shall not be accepted with the reason that the Governing Council system is changed to ensure the efficiency and operationality of the work of the Governing Council and the management of the Agency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43688	Dear Representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43689	Mr. Minister, by not accepting this amendment proposed by the Government, once again shows that your political suitability and party membership are ahead of your profession, knowledge and competence. Namely, this proposal from the Governing Council of a State Agency for Public Lined Coastal and Maritime Transport throws out the Croatian Register of Ships, throws out the Ships' Union of Croatia, throws out the HGK and throws out the Ships' Association. It is not clear to me that this tripartiteness, if I may say so in one agency that manages maritime traffic, does not concern you with the opinion of those who know the maritime profession best and who can speak the most about this traffic connection in the first row of Croatian islands. I think you have also shown this way that the social dialogue with the Croatian Maritime Union is not important to you, that you do not care about it and that you want to increase the number of politically similar members of the Governing Council of the Agency. And that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43690	I ask you to plead with me on the amendment of Agent Branko Bačić, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please, who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour, 17 votes against and 4 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Transport Act in line and occasional coastal transport in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43691	We move on to - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers on the way of financing and production of the main project and the management of administrative procedures for the assessment of environmental impacts, the entry of local permits, consent and building permits for the project "Renovation and modernisation of the waterway of the Sava River from Racinovac to Sisak", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 400; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. Would you like to explain the proposal? Here you go. Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43692	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. Here's a few words about this law. On 14 January 2010, the Government adopted a Decision to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of this Agreement and then adopted the Report on lead negotiations on 21 October 2010. This law confirms the agreement to make its provisions part of the internal legal order of the Republic of Croatia. This agreement, signed in Sarajevo on 1 December 2010, will allow the entry into force of project documentation for future editing, renovation and modernisation of the Sava River's international waterway. This agreement regulates relations between the two countries on how to finance and design the main project and conduct administrative procedures for the assessment of environmental impacts, the establishment of local permits, consent and building permits for the "Rehabilitation and Modernisation of the Sava River Waterway from Racinovac to Sisak" project. The agreement obliges the Republic of Croatia to develop a major project for the reconstruction and modernisation of the Sava River waterway from Racinovac to Sisak, only on the part from Brcko to Sisak, which will be regulated according to the requirements of the fourth class of airworthiness. The Agreement shall be concluded for a specified period of time until the date of power of the last of the authorisations granted. For the construction of the main project for the reconstruction and modernisation of the Sava Republic waterway, the EU fund has been applied to the IPA and received funding. The IPA fund will fund 85% of the funds, and the Republic of Croatia will co-finance 15%. The State budget for 2013 provides financial resources totalling 15 million and 300,000 kuna, of which the Croatian budget amounting to 6 million 2 000 500 kuna, and IPA funds are 8 million 797 and 500 euros. The estimated funding, i.e. a projection for 2014 totalling 9 million 975 thousand kuna, of which RH funds are 4 million and 110, and IPA financial resources 5 million 865 thousand euros. For the project "Rehabilitation and rehabilitation of the Sava waterway from Račinovac to Sisak" through the IPA Fund was agreed on making the main project, so this is the current state of the project. For a 2m and 300,000-euro stake from Brcko to Sisak, a project from the Bosnian-Herzegovina side of the Sava BiH River was envisaged by the party's obligation under an interstate agreement to obtain all the permits and consents that precede the development of the main project. There are still no consents from Republika Srpska and demining is still missing, and demining is expected to begin soon. By decision of the Sava Commission and the interstate agreement, each country will finance works on its territory. The estimated total value of this project is around 55m euros. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43693	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. There's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43694	Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH in the way of financing and development of the main project and the management of administrative procedures for the assessment of environmental impacts, the establishment of local permits, consent and building permits for the project "Rehabilitation and Modernisation of the Sava River from Racinovac to Sisak", emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 400. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, 97 votes are in favour, the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Council of Ministers of BiH, P.Z. No. 400 in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43695	And tonight we will discuss - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters and with EU Member States, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 405; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Justice Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43696	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So before you there is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. So, what's this about? The law was passed in 2010 and made the adjustment of our legislation in cooperation with other Member States. So what we need when we join the EU. Meanwhile, since 2010, there have been some changes both in our home and in the EU that require the adjustment of this law. So these are these changes. As for ours, what happened with us is the basic entry into force of the Law on Criminal Procedure, the different role of the State's Attorney's Office in all of this which meant taking over some of the duties and some of the tasks previously carried out by the court, the judges of the investigation, or the investigative judges at the time. So in that we should expand here in this law what the State's Attorney's Office is doing. On the other hand, we had one provision with which this judicial cooperation was actually meant to take place over 4 County Courts in Croatia. During this time we actually got information from the field and the profession that it would be much better to deploy it to all county courts, so that's the second change. As far as these European amendments are concerned, so to speak, they are accepted, i.e. some Council decisions have been made and one directive that has been requested means of this adaptation. The first is the decision on EUROJUST, so EUROJUST is established. With this whole mechanism we introduce ourselves into our legal system and allow us to operate in EUROJUST since 1.07. Another precautionary measure, a decision on precautions, is also one technical thing that is being reintroduced. The right to information in criminal proceedings and decisions on the protection of personal data, therefore processed in this police and judicial cooperation. So that's what's there. Of course, this law is certainly titled and we all know what it is and the famous one already referred to in Article 32(3). It therefore introduces a time limit for the temporary use of the European arrest warrant. So he wouldn't apply to crimes committed before the 7th August 2002. Since there's a lot of talk about it, it's written and so I'm going to say a few more things about it. So the task force that was working on making this law that was primarily practitioners, so that's the MUP, the DORH, the courts suggested that we put this restriction on because we're entering a new system. We have something under 100 of these warrants that we expect for this period means from 2002 on, but there are a whole series of other activities that will have to be run and it's just something new that we've been preparing for but until you start working, how we watch practice in other countries, you don't know how it's going to happen and what's going to happen. This resulted in a proposal from the Working Group to limit this time period. Secondly, we are 11 years old since this European arrest warrant is in effect. So even at this time of inclusion in crimes that he would not refer to, it's been 11 years. So that's why we decided on this option. And so there are five countries, so it's Austria, France, Luxembourg, the Czech Republic and I don't know exactly now, but it says in an explanation which is the fifth that has accepted this solution to limit time. So that led us to this proposal. I note that the law is neither this nor any written by any person entering any specific subject. That's not what we're doing, and we're not doing it. And what I need to say here is that we still mean that we are this is something that other countries have been doing and we think we can but we are still consulting on this and the EU Commission because there are different interpretations of whether this kind of reserve might have been put in place when negotiations so before closing, and that is possibly one thing that we will see until we vote on this law. So did we have to put in and whether we were missing eventually consumed by our rights or not? So here's what's in front of you I've explained what's going on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43697	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the first one will be spoken by counterpart Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43698	Honorable Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, esteemed Mr. Representatives. So now we've heard this brief explanation that we have and in law itself, the law was passed in 2010 and we need that adjustment. Meanwhile, Croatia is passing its law on criminal proceedings, some provisions need to be amended. Co-operation today goes through this 4 large county court of Rijeka via Zagreb, Osijek, Split, they suggest that it now covers all the county courts. But it's exactly as the minister himself said we all know what this is about. This is Article 32(3), and we are all going to talk about it for sure. In one word, the media once called the law Perkovic's law. The fact that, as the minister said earlier, judges are practitioners behind this law, there are people who have been doing these jobs at the Ministry of the Interior and the fact is that Croatia has been applying the arrest warrant for 11 years now. What am I saying? That Croatia must make no mistake about this law and it is good to consult and it is good that there are still certain reserves. We must not also step on any principle, meaning the principle that the opposition has advocated now most or the authorities of all these years can say since '95, '96 or better, we must not break all those principles we have advocated since the adoption of the Constitutional Law on Cooperation with The Hague Court if I am not mistaken from 1996. Then of us present here in these assembly benches, which we raised our hand for this constitutional law was Mrs. Jadranka Kosor, the vice president of Mrs. Zgrebec, so in these benches, and in these benches I raised my hands for this law. I'm talking about constitutional law. Now, clearly, people are asking themselves a question like this about how I'm interpreting it, if there's a difference at this point, for example. between our generals, Mr. Gotovina, Markac, Cermak on one side and some other cases. We are now talking about this European arrest warrant. It is clear that we must keep in mind all that has been heard in this discussion on the board and elsewhere in the media that was happening in those earlier 1990s. So also this fact or fact mentioned by the minister that some 80 arrest requests can be slapped by Croatian courts. But I think it's a minor problem. The smaller problem is how many Croatian courts can "slam" and, for example, from 1980 to 2002. What's the problem? or extradite or judge. If there is a clear act that does not go out of date by some international standards, then there is no amnesia and in particular there must be no amnesia. Some EU countries have no restrictions, and each other in these cases, the principle of extradition is in place. In a particular case today, we also have opportunities to read that simply for the most severe crimes of the murder of Germany does not know the Institute of Depreciation. Now we're going to that case that many others are likely to talk about. How much first of all that statement of that famous... in the case of Djurekovic is credible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Was that convicted immigrant an informant to UDBA, i.e. Whether he was concerned with false testimony. Which I don't know about, in all of this, is the former Defence Minister Mr. Šushko, whose right hand Perkovic was also known to have been the closest associate of the former late President of the Republic of Croatia. Why didn't the former government do anything? What he knows in that case, I dare say then political leadership. Why did the former services not do anything about those headed today by the current HDZ president and beyond. Now I'm reading this morning, I think it was in the Morning List that someone connected the Prime Minister and Sasha Perkovic. There's only one thing I could say is that a lot of it, that children are responsible for their fathers and grandfathers, enough to get them, or not to thank God for any of our fathers or grandfathers' actions. Why did the state of Croatia not put such an example? Adact to the case, and how much I have been following the opportunities on Croatia's political stage since 91st, in which case it has already started to talk. I'm not talking about any... But whether it was a dispute or if it were a dispute, I can't think that Mr. Perkovic's former defence minister would have taken anything less or less for his assistant. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Or Mr. Šushko, Mr. Perkovic knew more than we know. However, Mr. Shušak was so powerful at the time that he could do whatever he wanted. Okay. It was supposed to be organized. Wait a minute, so we can talk about principle and we can talk about the very details of this Law. [[You're talking about the law, not the case.]] Just a few more sentences were to form a clear intelligence service, who better to know than the people who work there, and now we get to how these things work and now we get to what's important. That deadline of 7. On August 8, or on August 7, 2002, or perhaps without a deadline. I'm intimately maybe for this second one, I said Germany endures or wants to endure I don't know, we're reading now this one request for we know the event that took place in the 90s, I'm sorry, 83s. It's all legitimate, it's a crime in Germany, it's a crime like I said it doesn't get old. In Croatia this is clearly a dilemma and now a question is being asked which right to prefer. I'm not defending anything but either consensus or change, or full application, I'd say that arrest warrant. The minister said he expects about 80 cases of this kind only for the period since 2002. The normal question is how much for that period before 2002, whether 80 more or less. I think we should know the same in a way. Who are these people's notes? Why are you asking for their extradition? Whether or not they will be processed in accordance with our legislation. He probably won't, he doesn't need to protect anyone. Why would they protect someone? And in one word, we have to be careful here and I don't want to live in a country of double standards. For all that is the same, and for the people whom the captives, whom they both are. Understandably, domestic legislation needs to be protected, this legal standard must be sacred, European law i.e. The arrest warrant today is also part of the Croatian legal standard. If we are guaranteed that this standard on 7 August 2002 guarantees that Croatia will not be called and that justice will then be respected. That justice will in any case be apostrophe then it is clear that such a legal proposal should be supported. It is also true what the minister mentions that Croatia will not be lonely in the event of such a legal solution. The mention is the case of the Czech Republic, Austria, France, etc., which also have certain reserves on this bill, but all in all, by tomorrow at the very least, should "nearly agree" under quotes from the European Union countries that the next day someone under quotes "double" standards would not place a burden on us. And we expect at the very least, or I expect that such an attitude is not known to us by European institutions by someone before tomorrow's vote on this legislative proposal and foregleam.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43699	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43700	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Before us is the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. These amendments and additions to the legal system of the Republic of Croatia introduce several decisions of the European Union into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. The adaptation of Croatian legislation primarily in relation to Council Decision of 28 February 2002 establishing and amending the euro area and amending the Decision and all with a view to strengthening the fight against serious criminal offences. Eurojust, or the European Judicial Cooperation Unit, was established in 2002 to improve the effectiveness of competent authorities within Member States in the area of cross-border and organised crime. The Eurojust mission is to strengthen cooperation across Europe in criminal cases. Eurostat and the Republic of Croatia signed as we have already heard the 2007 agreement to participate more effectively in the fight against the serious form of international organised crime. At that time, Croatia was the only country to conclude an agreement alongside Norway, Iceland and the United States and did not travel to the EU in 2009 by a state liaison lawyer in Eurojust who, among other things, participated in the work of the Eurojust Assembly. The provisions of these amendments and additions will replace that agreement in order to establish a legal basis for improving and improving the coordination and co-operation of the competent judicial authorities of the EU Member States in criminal prosecution. Organized crime, serious crimes, terrorism in view of severe injuries and the threat of legal goods, as well as the consequences of those acts, require joint action by the Member States. These amendments and additions shall stipulate that provisions of domestic law will apply to the protection of personal data and their transmission through police and judicial cooperation. National law thus regulates the protection of personal data and defines the concepts of the principle of legal treatment with data, correction, erasure and processing of specific categories of personal data, the transfer of data from the Republic of Croatia, the rights of persons whose data are used or processed including judicial protection and the right to compensation, the supervision of the use or processing of personal data and the body responsible for this and the time of storage of personal data. Furthermore, these amendments and additions shall determine the jurisdiction of the county attorneys and the county courts in relation to the European arrest warrant and the procedure for surrender in relation to the guarantee of property and evidence, in relation to the European order for obtaining evidence, in relation to the recognition and enforcement of decisions on the confiscation of property and case, in relation to the recognition and enforcement of decisions on fines, in relation to the recognition and enforcement of judgments imposing probation measures and alternative sanctions, in relation to the recognition and enforcement of sentences imposed on prisons or measures involving the confiscation of freedom, and in relation to the recognition and enforcement of decisions on precautionary measures. So far, it has been in the jurisdiction of 4 county courts and these county courts in Bjelovar, Velika Gorica, Vukovar and Zadar, and now all the county courts and all the county lawyers, which is certainly good. It was thought that only 4 courts would be able to do the job and it was never quite understandable why the 4 county courts when many other county courts had both human and material conditions. Furthermore, these amendments and additions are being discussed in the application of the Schengen Information System as a single Schengen Information System has been established at EU level. In accordance with the role played by the State's attorney, other obligations of the State's attorney during and after the execution of the European arrest warrant have been prescribed. The national lawyer shall be given a higher role in the execution of the guarantee order of assets or evidence of that decision to confiscate assets or cases, since the State's attorney before the court represents the interests of the competent authority of a Member State. An order for the provision of property or evidence is a procedural measure which also, under domestic law, is initiated or initiated by a State lawyer. The existing Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States does not cover judicial co-operation in the enforcement of precautionary measures in exchange for detention or investigational imprisonment and should therefore be implemented in this proposal for amendment and supplementation. Therefore, the area of recognition of the enforcement of decisions by foreign judicial authorities on the measures imposed by the person who has residence or residence in the Republic of Croatia and has agreed to return to the Republic of Croatia as long as the criminal proceedings and the area of forwarding of decisions by the domestic judicial authorities who have given precaution to the person who has legal and normal residence in the territory of the Member State and has agreed to return to that State. The precautionary measures shall be consistent with the Framework Decision and the provisions of the Criminal Procedure Act. For the recognition of foreign decisions in precautionary measures, regardless of who issued them, the county court is competent, and they will be executed in accordance with domestic law. It defines the obligatory reasons for refusing to recognise the foreign decision on precautionary measures and regulates the court's conduct in the event of a need for additional notifications. The transitional and final provisions shall determine the transitional period for the start of the application of the procedure under the European arrest warrant as well as the criminal offences in view of the time when the application of the European arrest warrant takes place. Procedures pending on the date of entry into force of this law concerning an application from the EU Member State for the extradition of the person for which the European arrest warrant has been issued will be completed in accordance with the provisions of the domestic law governing the extradition procedure. According to the proposal, the European arrest warrant will be executed against the offences committed after the 7th August 2002. That date shall be made possible in a decision on a European arrest warrant. As we heard, Austria, Luxembourg and Italy have it. France has had it since 1st November 1993, and the Czech Republic since 1st November 1994. The European arrest warrant works retroactively and applies to cases before Croatia becomes an EU member. Croatia is not authorised and cannot amend the date of application of the European arrest warrant or of which extradition requests are subject to the legislation. This was also the case when Member States adopted legislation on the European arrest warrant ten years ago. Now it waits as we have heard 80 arrest warrants and that provision limits the first rush, because from the practice of the other members it is visible that the first six months is the biggest rush. And in addition to what is most important, we consider it responsible to protect our citizens and not less than other EU countries. For all reason, the SDP club will support this proposal to amend and supplement the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43701	Thank you. It is up to the Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS, and will be spoken by counterpart Jadranka Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43702	Dear Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Mr. Assistant, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues. So, I suggest that introductively, I think I can afford to suggest that we sit down a little bit in a parliamentary time machine right now and here we go three years back. So, at this point at the same time as we changed the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on 16 June, it is as I recall that it came into force and, through these amendments, we once again strengthened all those foundations for the continuation of negotiations and for Croatia's entry, the successful entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. So, we have, among other things, further strengthened the independent Croatian institutions and the State's Attorney's Office and the State's Attorney's Council, the State's Judiciary Council. But also the work of courts, Croatian National Bank etc. However, we have also installed the European Arrest Warrant Institute in this system. After that, in July, as it has been said many times, on 9 July 2010, it seems to me the same consensus and the law that the Government is proposing to amend today. And what changed in the meantime? In this and legislative and legal sense and in terms of the legal gain of the EU nothing ladies and gentlemen or anything special, so a decision which I will talk about most about what has been most interested in political justice and any other public in the Republic of Croatia. So, about the date limit related to the decision. So, even at that time when we were here, when we in the Government discussed first and foremost the changes to the Constitution, when we negotiated this with our coalition partners, and then, of course, with the representatives of the opposition and after the debate in the Croatian Parliament, as the minister had just said well before, no one asked the question of this restriction. So, regarding the 2002 decision, the August 2002 decision. All of this was, therefore, well known at the time when we re-edited the Constitution, of course fully aware of that provision in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so we made and further strengthened the legal framework and, of course, passed the law. We signed the law, so no restrictions. I remind you that it was also one of the important criteria in Chapter XXIII. which was the chapter of all chapters, the unique chapter that Croatia had where we had to solve, along with everyone else, the difficult legacy of war. A strict, consistent, full, open co-operation with the International Criminal Court. Let's remember, and in the last meters, we had to constantly answer questions about what happened to so-called. The famous cannon logs. And we closed that chapter as visible, among other things, from the law that we're changing today. So, also in numerous conversations with Mrs Rebing, who was in charge of Chapter XXIII. So regarding the judiciary to the Vice-President of the European Commission, we have repeatedly considered many areas and received support and its confirmation to close Chapter XXIII. in this way as it is incorporated into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in the law relating to cooperation. So nothing changed in the meantime. I absolutely trust Mr. Minister who yesterday on a committee and today here told him that he had no idea that some law was modeled or that some law was passed in accordance with the needs of certain persons in the Republic of Croatia. I'm not going to name anyone, of course. I'll go back to working with the International Criminal Court. State policy is the one that I would actually say is hitting the pace, which is going the way. State policy was a full co-operation with the International Criminal Court and the state policy was and many of us were terrified of both that and because of our generals who ended up in The Hague that were tried, but the state policy was all over the past years firm, unequivocal and open cooperation with the International Criminal Court no matter how painful it was sometimes for us and how difficult it was sometimes. So, I'm creeping out from the debate in the sense that you don't want to deliver these, then we don't want to deliver these, or you delivered those, we hid those, etc. That's not a good policy. Let's stay away from that especially here in the Croatian Parliament. So we have to follow the principles, the principles that were crucial to us to get candidate status, to open negotiations, and then at some point unblock them because Slovenia didn't just block 14 chapters from us. The blockade was also tied to the reserve of many states or some if you will and related to Chapter XXIII. Therefore, we have consistently gone through this process and we must be consistent and at the moment when we are entering the European Union. It would be very bad if anyone were to calculate in any way with the fact that of course they're talking about and it says that we were waiting until the last moment for the German ratification of our access contract. The process ended on June 6th, and then on June 13th, this proposal came. I deeply believe that it has nothing to do with this and that this law is not modeled by persons, by any name or name. But we have to prove this in this way to stay with our original proposal about which there was a repeat consensus when we changed the Constitution because all that was written in the cooperation law actually found its foundation in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, why I think that on July 1st, we must enter a highly credible and truly high-ranking head, extremely credible with all the cards on the table as the 28th proud member of the EU. We expect other processes to be opened afterwards. I remind you of the INA-MOL case. On the fact that one person has a first-degree verdict in the case of INA-MOL. The person for whom the court here said in the first degree that she had received a bribe. The verdict also states that another person gave bribes. So far, the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia has not been able to even listen to the other person, so it could not take the basic information about what the witnesses and, of course, what the investigation is, and ultimately, the indictment for the person who has the first-degree verdict say. I therefore expect that the Croatian State Attorney's Office is precisely on the trail of obligations arising from the European arrest warrant and the fact that we will become an EU member of the EU to get a chance to request the hearing of the other person. So one of the key people in the process. INA is a strategic issue for the Republic of Croatia. That's where you can open up, of course, the unseen possibilities after how I see them. Therefore, let us act credible and then when this may not seem the most practical to us because tomorrow will come and tomorrow will come the day when we will certainly benefit from what we have installed I repeat in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and in the laws. And finally, since I mentioned many times changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So, we're based on these changes to both the judiciary and the State Judiciary Council, the Council of Lawyers, etc., etc. Bringing in laws on that trail. We've also installed a non-agency of converted crime. So, and passed laws on that trail without restrictions. Does this mean that by introducing a date, we can open up an additional box of Pandora's and ask that, for example, some kind of time limit be installed in that law? Finally, under the conditions under which we opened and closed Chapter 23 and eventually concluded the negotiations, signed the accession agreement and received the date of entry under these conditions, we must also vote this law. And that's why my club submitted the amendment very simply to delete this provision for 2002 from this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43703	Thank you very much. The Republic has Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43704	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished colleague Kosor must be a very hot topic, and there is no replica, this is the first replica. Like this, you said we have to follow the principles. I fully agree with you. Let's stick to principles. Another finding I disagree with is that you said you believed that this law was not written by a specific person or person. I agree with this law, but I don't agree with the laws, we're here, you know well that because of Mr. Komadina we passed the law. So we're because of Mr. Komadina so that he can sit in the chair, for a short while, it took him, the Minister's office, and we've passed the law. The laws are sometimes written according to people, interests, events, everything. I am for the principle of this, but I am for the principle of either extradition or not extradition. I am against the extradition of Croatian citizens to others, but I am in favour of the functioning of the judiciary, for the judiciary to be credible and for us to judge in Croatia and not to extradite further. I'm against it until this date that, to this no, this is how we're gonna do it. That's why it's all a little bit of keeping me in doubt, and that's why all these writings that are in the paper have grounds. They do because they say this, which is why, there are countries that don't extradite. And Croatian citizens should not be extradited to other courts and normally speculated on why the date has been since 2002. Well, it's probably because of the Homeland War, we probably signed something in 2002 that would make us bound, etc. Because it would bring down to our defenders who were not guilty of anything, hundreds of thousands of trials would be brought down on them, requests for extradition, etc. That is why it is good that Croatian citizens are not extradited, but then we pass laws in which we will say no, the Croatian judiciary does not extradite Croatian citizens to other countries and conduct court proceedings in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43705	Thank you very much. But we shouldn't be talking about hundreds of thousands of citizens who would be under arrest. ... You've told hundreds of thousands. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Replication response, Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43706	Thank you very much. I told my colleague Vuksic that I want to believe and I always want to believe that lawmakers propose laws in good faith and propose them in accordance with the Constitution and propose them with good practice. So I want to believe, and that's why I made the amendment. That wish I believe will turn into reality when the Government of the Republic of Croatia accepts that amendment. And I don't think that Croatia's entry into the EU is going to take place with some of the tsunamis of things that are going to hit us and that are going to bury us and make it impossible for the Croatian judiciary to function because we would, of course, have such indications by now. However, there are other EU member states, and as you can see in most of the 22 members, there are no restrictions and orderly functioning and there are no closures. And as for the Homeland War defender, I remind you of the Law on Vulnerabilities that we voted there in the fall of 2011 in the Croatian Parliament and which is now waiting, where it is only said that the Republic of Croatia does not recognise the decision of the JNA and the judicial authorities means the military courts of the JNA and that we do not recognise the jurisdiction of the Republic of Serbia in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and here at the Constitutional Court today we are awaiting a decision on the constitutional suit because there were those who filed a constitutional suit precisely on the law that was meant to protect Croatian defenders.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43707	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43708	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Assistant, colleagues and colleagues. It's nice to talk to a relatively small number of MPs about a law that looks like a technical regulation Thursday afternoon at 6:30 before EU entry to plus 40 degrees, we're going to do a little bit more in line with EU legislation. However, this law hides something far more important. It's already been a speech, and I'm going to apologize to the promoters that instead of the whole law, our debate will de facto come down to one single article. It is well said that the Republic of Croatia has completed its negotiations on EU accession and the government that led the process has been given confidence in the signing of an accession treaty because of the effort it has made to remove all obstacles and the credibility that it could guarantee for the commitments it has made in EU membership and I believe that this is one of the fundamental reasons why both EU members welcomed us for the efforts we have made and welcomed us as a 28-member and that many like to say the most advanced communities of civilized peoples. This is now an anti-civilization law because of the only article it contains. This law is against everything we have so far been subject to as the quality of the country's EU accession. This law is giving up on commitments and in a very perfidious way so far I would say unremembered in our legislation and in this Parliament. And this is an article that is often quoted so as not to mistake the application of a European arrest warrant or Article 132a in these amendments and amendments to the laws. and he says: "The Republic of Croatia will deliver its citizens at the request of EU Member States if they are subject to criminal proceedings, but not for crimes, crimes committed" or deliver them "only for crimes committed after 7 August 2002". We also heard the minister's explanation why that date. Because we are afraid of floods or as the tsunami requests for extradition or application of a European arrest warrant have been said. According to statistics provided by EU countries from 2005 to 2009, 54 thousand 689 of such orders were issued, with an executive of 11 thousand 630, preceding the Republic of Poland and more and less important as regards statistics. It's amazing that some future very uncertain situation motivates us to enter this date. We do not know how many arrest warrants the Republic of Croatia can receive and which they will have to execute. So it's so hard to talk about a flood waiting for us, which is why we've limited everyone to criminal acts after 2002. And unfortunately, the public also recognized as many in this House that it had nothing to do with the flood that our courts could experience by executing a European arrest warrant. The reasons are much deeper, much more serious but unfortunately never spoken of by either the promoter or this speaker. I'm not talking about the people that this applies to, I'm going to talk about the system that you want to protect. You're saying that everything that happened before that date, despite the fact that the Croatian judiciary was not able to solve it properly and that some other countries of our colleagues have started procedures tomorrow in the European Union and we will not help them to complete these criminal proceedings. We will prevent a statement or a decision on truth and justice because we have hidden intentions and we have reasons why some of the people would not consent to the courts of the European Union state. And that's why we think this is anti-civilization law. This is a law that is contrary to all that Croatia has done to join the European Union. This Law is contrary to being a high-quality member of the European Union responsible for its obligations and sticking to what it has taken as its commitment to membership of the European Union. And what is unfortunately the consequence and what many have already read so far is that in this way, those who have dealt with it will, if you want, be protected from the hand of justice in European countries and our country itself will not have the power to prosecute and condemn such crimes. I would therefore only quote two documents concerning the finality of this Article 132. One document from 2006 brought by the Croatian Parliament called the Declaration of Crime Conviction committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia from 1945 to 1990. And so in that declaration in her point 12. The Croatian Parliament joins the call by the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe to all communist or post communist parties that in their countries, if they have not yet re-evaluated the history of communism and their own past, they clearly distance themselves from the crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes and condemn them without any ambiguity. Without any dates from which something will apply, no doubt we are prepared to condemn all crimes. So when we had the strength to decide on the crimes and crimes committed during the Homeland War, then we must have the strength, the will, the determination and the honesty to judge all crimes no matter who committed them or at what time. And this Declaration adopted by the Croatian Parliament, it actually quoted the same provision as Resolution 14/81 of the European Parliament Assembly on the need for an international condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes and which we have transposed into our legislation. And by accepting all these Resolutions and these Resolutions have become part of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. Because of this, this Law, this one article in the otherwise technically perhaps necessary, perhaps less necessary law, we find it inadmissible to be in the text of the law. We feel equally that it is unacceptable that after all the Member States of the European Union have ratified the accession treaty of the Republic of Croatia, they welcomed us and accepted the membership that will take place in 10 days, after we have collected all the necessary ratifications we are now changing our commitments. We are changing the Law 10 days before we enter the European Union and we are giving up what was our obligation between the rest of the foundation and these documents that I quoted, which is to condemn and help find all the culprits and to prosecute all the criminals because that hand of justice and especially in this community of people must be accessible to everyone. We cannot agree with any proposal to condition a different application of this Law. The HDZ club, which was otherwise invited to work on a consensus on the adoption of this Law, which, meanwhile, disappeared as a need in Croatian parliament corridors. Nobody contacted us anymore to get a better text of this law. We are not going to support this law, we are going to leave the Parliament and we are not going to give Parliament the legitimacy to pass such laws which not only harshly offend the obligations that we have already made but prefers the protection of criminals that should have long been brought to justice. Therefore, if you feel that this text requires you to pass the law, I cannot speak of any other opposition but not just us that you cannot count on us in such a farce we will not participate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43709	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43710	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with an assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. All of us are smaller and the topics are more and more important. So I hope that of you colleagues who are here we will understand each other best when it comes to the best interests of the Republic of Croatia and all of our citizens. It is true that we discussed and discussed this in 2010 and that this was one of those key laws in Chapter 23 which were as a criterion for closing chapters and one of the most important areas in the conclusion of our accession contract for full-fledged membership of the Republic of Croatia. Many of us have just worked through approvals in the Croatian Parliament, I have been one of those who has been in the Committee on Law and Justice since 2009 and worked to agree on our legislative proposals for the conclusion of Chapter 23. One of the laws was the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. We also consider this an important and very important issue today because it is not only an opportunity or a problem for what we have done over the past years and have received a lot of ducks and a lot of negative opinions on our laws and a lot of corrections of changes and additions by EU Commission representatives. I think that a huge and significant step has been made in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia and that our judiciary today and on behalf of the HDSSB club, I have often talked about these laws recently. We have never opposed the adoption of laws that are key laws for the interest of the Republic of Croatia in future full membership in the EU. What is important to highlight is the changes that have come in a small part since 2010 as a adjustment to Croatian legislation to decisions of the EU Council and decisions concerning Eurojust and everything that has changed in small detail since 2010 and it is true that we have had to comply with EU Commission decisions and also with those framework decisions relating to improved co-operation between the State's Attorney's Office and the Croatian State's Attorney's Office with the same authorities in the EU Member States. This solution to now move with 4 county state attorneys to all state's attorneys in the Republic of Croatia may be technically good, but will this be practical enough when we discussed it in 2010. First of all, we have advocated that the capacities and expertise and some new challenges that will be faced by the Croatian judiciary before the Croatian judges and the judiciary. I also worked in the State Judicial Council and we saw that what we have passed as laws was in line with the legal acquis of the EU in order to really implement it in the work we must also train Croatian courts, Croatian judges, future Croatian judges through this and in this context we have brought through the Judicial Academy, the State School for Judicial Officials, through a different role of the State Judicial Council in changing the Constitution where we have given one strong independence, one great importance, therefore in this context the election of the best judges through the State Judicial Council but also the best personnel and in the State's Attorney's Office and in the state's attorneys of the County State's attorneys, therefore in the Republic of Croatia. So apart from us creating a legal framework and justifying some other bodies in the courts and the State's Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, we need to make sure that through this expertise and through sufficient financial and technical conditions, it really is not controversial when these laws are to be implemented in practice, and that will be implemented within ten days. So about strengthening the role of state attorney, the State's Attorney's Office, the state's attorney's offices, the county courts around this technical cooperation on the rules that this law provides we have nothing against, however, we believe that these are changes that are in a smaller scale but are essential for the functioning and implementation of this law as a whole as we passed in 2010. So the law is important but what's a little weird and a little bit throws maybe the wrong picture at this whole thing, doesn't have to be too much faith in media inscriptions or sometimes pumps that rise around certain laws, but we don't advocate that laws are passed in the House according to anyone and anything other than the interests of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and then our homelands as a whole. Our full membership in the EU opens only one new chapter of life in this case, one new chapter in the judiciary of the Republic of Croatia, and we should not throw any stain at all that we have done and what you have done in the Ministry of Justice and you ministers in your term of office, as well as the past government in your mandate in this important chapter 23 and in this area which was the area of monitoring the EU institutions until the very end of the accession contracts and the very end of the ratification of the accession contract in all EU Member States. I have nothing to add, in this sense, to the nomotechnics of harmonisation with the acquis of the EU in terms of decisions and directives, but I would ask one question to which we are sure and I think we should answer and that is whether we have got the green light for this law in terms of concluding Chapter 23 2010 in terms of a common consensus on this law and voting, did we get the green light first of all Brussels and then Berlin for this law?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43711	Thank you. Also on behalf of the Croatian Labour Representatives' Club, counterpart Branko Vuksic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43712	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with an associate. I said hundreds of commas a thousand, so I didn't say hundreds of thousands. Given how many defenders we have, there could be hundreds of thousands, but I didn't say that. Much of what is related to this law raises doubts as to why this law was passed, or just one article, and that is what we are talking about, and that is the essence of this law. In fact, the essence of our discussion is not the essence of the law. That article will be sure and will result in consequences or loss of credibility. I will repeat the question that I believe Minister Milenic will answer me as he has always answered our questions on how to determine it by one specific date we extradite members of the European Union to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and from the second, from midnight on, we do not extradite from midnight on. Would we be principled if we handed over those citizens against whom proceedings in foreign countries began? And we always said game rules don't change during the game. Some games have already started here. The media did not without the devil begin to guess whether part of that law was written for certain persons or not. It is absolutely certain that citizens rightly wonder how we have unspeakably extradited Croatian generals, and now we will not extradite, for example, citizens suspected of crime, terrorism, murder. How are we now suddenly beginning to protect the interests of the Republic of Croatia, the interests of the citizens and what are the interests of the Republic of Croatia if we are protecting some citizens who, for example, should be held accountable for serious crimes committed in other countries? I used to say in the replica that we should take the principle of whether we are as a state for the extradition of Croatian citizens or not we are not to be extradited, whether we are able as a judiciary to process certain misdemeanors, given that we have spoken this several times in court, that is, the proceedings in Croatian courts have been going on for decades. You know, Mr. Minister, for the longest length of court proceedings. Working courts, work disputes take ten years or more. Rarely, a working dispute ends in Croatian courts within a reasonable period of time. If so, and you know well that my thesis supports practice, then the courts are unreasonable because they are judged on unreasonable terms. I think that this provision will lose credibility in the law and that we will lose credibility and the fact that we are passing a law after all EU Member States have confirmed that we are being admitted into their society. We would have been far more credible if that law had been passed before, if we had passed that law months ago. Then these doubts would be gone. It is only a question of whether this provision would give us the consent of all EU members to enter their society, to be 28 members of the EU. If only 5 EU member states compete with the form that we have proposed in this law, the vast majority of members are opposed to not supporting such a form. Why are we neglecting the experience of these countries? Which is why we do not bow to the majority when we always know when we need that argument in the House to say that we are bringing it because most countries in Europe are doing so, we are bowing to it because the EU has such and such provisions. This time it doesn't seem to matter to us. So you have to be suspicious that it's been convenient for some people. And for the first time I heard from the Justice Minister who said he consulted with the police, with the DORH, probably about this article, and I believe it's also been consulted with some powerful men. It has been debated here for days in the halls, today it has not been very loudly debated, opinions have been taken and I will honestly say I am not sufficiently informed, I am not a legal expert, I have talked to several lawyers who have also said that here is not a question of law but ethics, ethics, morality, credibility and the functioning of the Croatian judiciary and at the end of the credibility of this Parliament and, in particular, the Government that has proposed what is sure that the Parliament will vote. For the first time since the club has not taken a stand on it, and for the first time, I as a parliamentary representative will certainly not support this law, I mean the law that comes out of Mr Milenić's workshop. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43713	Replica, colleague of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43714	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic is certain that each game is good and necessary to end up according to the same rules as we started. Since here you mentioned games in the context and beginning and ending of Croatian negotiations. To your doubt about it, that is to say, we have to decide whether we want to extradite our citizens or not, we have decided. So we decided to do it in 2010 by amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Now it's too late to think. Then we brought it by consensus because, of course, without participation and ruling and opposition in the Croatian Parliament, the Constitution could not have changed. And in Article 9 it is clear that a citizen of the Republic of Croatia cannot be expelled from Croatia, nor can his citizenship be taken away, nor can he be extradited to another country, unless a decision on extradition or surrender is made in accordance with the international contract or acquis of the EU. That is why, of course, we have prepared this law that is changing today. And as for these doubts that some countries, a small number of EU member states have some date from which this applies, and a larger, larger number of countries do not. I use another argument you have the fact that one part of the EU member states has not recognised, for example, Kosovo. Croatia did, and here it is now several years ago. So each country is guided by its own principles, both in this sense and in its internal and foreign policy, you must have a clear, firm and recognizable attitude. But the fact that some countries have not recognised Kosovo in the EU, as you know, is not an obstacle to a further path, the European pathway of the Republic of Croatia is conditional on all EU Member States by resolving their, or their relations with Kosovo. And let's say it can also be one handsome parallel when we're discussing this issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43715	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43716	Dear colleagues Kosor, you said that we had already defined ourselves as you changed the Constitution in 2010 during your government, that your government could, so the Constitution could change, right? Well, I'm talking about it, we're discussing it. I didn't think we were going to do it today, that we'd have to take a stand on it. Independence and independence on what you said depended on us whether we recognise Kosovo or not, it is welcome, but we often call for EU and some other countries' decisions. This time, in my opinion, we didn't do it in principle, and I think all of the arguments we've heard here are on very thin feet and, as I said earlier, there's still suspicion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43717	The final word of Justice Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43718	Thank you very much. So, of course, it is unnecessary to answer to those who went out, but declared Austria, the Czech Republic, France, Italy, Luxembourg to non-civilised countries because they put the same date that is proposed here is below each level. So we need to learn to act now and in the future as one of the members, one of the 28 countries that has all the rights. We are not a country under monitoring, a country that has guardians or tutors, but a country that enters, which has virtually entered and has the right of all other countries. And we should use them. So that's what just one change in behavior is. We are now discussing this law, but there will be a whole series of laws ahead of you that must happen in our heads. We're no longer the country to be seen one way or another, we're the country to decide. So, this, this date he was elected because he was such a planned framework decision on a European arrest warrant. He's not made-up, he's not sucked out of his finger, he's like he's supposed to be there. I said in the introduction that there was still a question whether we consumed it in negotiations where we didn't put such a fence and we missed it and whether we could do it now or not. And that's one thing we discuss when you're talking about green light with the commission. Yeah, and that's an open question that we're going to clear up and you're going to know how things are. But I'm saying, that's one right, we need to learn that we can use our rights. So if it's one country, it's one country, but if there's such a right and if we think it's in our national interest or any other to use it, we need to use it. So I'm saying in this and in any other case, this is about simply having other countries have had that option when they were members, when they were negotiating. In our negotiations, we have taken one position, and now the question is whether or not we have consumed it and whether or not we can put a reserve on it. And I told you right away in the opening. So it's not any giggling, bypassing, etc. I said right away what was the dilemma. As far as you're concerned, you've put a few more things in there, of course we're capable of processing and processing all of our problems at home. And this is the first thing not ours but every country that is a member of the EU, at all, every country in the world. First, let's sweep home what's our problem. In criminal law, I'm happy to say there are no delays. We are practically no longer taking note of any old age as it happened up to a few years ago, and these examples that are being set may not stand for some other branches in the penitentiary. So there's no such long objects and there's no statute of limitations. So it shows that objects don't last that long. There was talk of consultations, no, there was me, as you misunderstood, perhaps with hundreds and thousands I said that the members of the task force were representatives of these state bodies. I consulted no one. So these are the people who are experts and who have proposed this solution, explained it with an explanation that was before you, it seemed acceptable to me and I therefore accepted it and forwarded it further. I haven't consulted anyone, and I believe they're neither in any way except professionally. So, before you there's a proposal, I said there's still this little dilemma left that we're going to clear up and that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43719	Thank you very much, Minister. And the replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43720	A very short replica, actually one question. In fact, the most important question, the question of all questions, is that you said it in one sentence. Is that in the national interest? Well, I'm also wondering if it's in the national interest of such a provision? If it is, you'll be able to explain why it's in the national interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43721	Do you want to answer the Minister's question? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. With this, we would end this day with a session, and tomorrow at 9.30 we would start with the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendment and Completion of the Act on Host Activity. Thank you very much and goodbye.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43722	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 405. I'm listening.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43723	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So to this moment, we did not know whether this law would be passed today or not in view of its importance, given that if you adopt it in an existing form it would have negative consequences for the international position of the Republic of Croatia on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I would like to request a 15-minute break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43724	Okay. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43725	On behalf of the SDP club, I'm looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43726	Dear Representative Cain Damir.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43727	Same thing, same thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43728	Thank you. Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43729	Good to see you, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43730	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Jozo Radosh? Okay. We can set a break. Yeah, break 15 minutes. We're at 13.50. It's a 13,35 o'clock meeting. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 13.50 HOURS]] Dear colleagues and well-respected colleagues can continue to work. We have a request for a break from the clubs. The first is the HDZ club and the respected representative Tomislav Karamarko. Here's an honorary representative on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43732	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs. Since the very beginning of our journey as an independent state, we have stressed our desire to be part of the EU. We wanted Croatia to be european, which means that it truly accepts democracy and rejects every totalitarianism. We have come a long way before the negotiations and the signing of the accession contract in 2011. It wasn't easy, it was hard, but we were credible and we got to the finish line. This credibility today is literally killing the government with this draft law on judicial cooperation in the criminal proceedings of EU members. It doesn't even matter who comes to Zagreb the day after tomorrow or who gave up the celebration for this or that reason, it is important and sad that the Government gave up European behaviour and before we became a full member. I'm afraid it won't go without consequences. All those working on this proposal to protect suspected participants in the killings against European justice did not realise that Croatia will not be successful and economically developed until it faces its own past and opens up to a true, authentic rule of law. Croatia has taken the obligation to follow a European arrest warrant without a time limit and cannot now play what is promised. It will be quite clear if this law is passed today means that the rule of law has been struck in Croatia. From that moment on, it does not matter who is left and who is right, it will only matter who is for democracy and who is against the rule of law and against Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen, why is the government doing this? Why is conflict with Europe and all Croatian citizens holding hostages to this conflict? They say it's for the defenders. But I think it is incorrect to manipulate the defenders because we know well, and in the government they know that no defender will be handed over to a European arrest warrant because the war was waged in Croatia and not on the territory of other EU members. In particular, it should be borne in mind that representatives of today's ruling coalition were the opposers of the Law on the Vulnerability of Certain Legal Acts by the former JNA, the former SFRY and the Republic of Serbia to which the HDZ government protected all members of the Homeland War from illegal proceedings initiated by the Republic of Serbia. And this example shows their false display of the reasons for the introduction of unacceptable legal provisions in this new attempt to protect the perpetrators and officials of communist crimes. But that is why Croatian emigrants were killed in Germany, dear friends, and throughout Europe by UDBA, and at the mandate of the Alliance of Communists of Croatia and the Union of Communists of Yugoslavia. For them, there are European arrest warrants, not for Croatian defenders. The government's argument of insults would say common sense and this whole legislative proposal offends all those who truly want a European Croatia. It can't be fixed by amendments dear friends. It is not enough to vote against and participate in this parody of democracy. If the government puts this bill to the vote we will leave this High House, we will not give any legitimacy to this coup on the rule of law. Fellow Members and colleagues, what will be the consequences if the Parliament today adopts such a law that denies the European acquis? The European Commission can initiate proceedings against the Republic of Croatia before the EU Court of Justice, which will then and will be able to order the abolition of the disputed provisions of the law that the Government is proposing today. In the end, the government will have to comply with the arrest warrant from Germany. In the meantime, however, Croatia will enter the EU as a country that violates the EU's fundamental values and can be exposed to sanctions and EU rights suspensions. Imagine hypothetically how much this could cost the Croatian economy and Croatian citizens. For what? For not knowing the secrets of the communist dictatorship. Government and ruling circles are constantly threatening some secrets. He threatens the opposition, threatens the church. And here I'm saying enough of those threats because they're pointless. On the contrary, it is time to face that side of the dark past once and turn to the future. It is time for Croatia to rise up and really move forward... European way Dear gentlemen, whatever you do today and decide the damage has already been done. [[Intruder: Thank you very much.]] And like I said, we don't want to be part of this farce. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43733	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the SDP advocates' club and respected representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43734	Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today we put in practice you say what you think and then you get out of the assembly, but let's. What I want to tell the Croatian citizens, and I think you should see this. Everyone has the right to express their views democratically in this House in a way that they think is best for them politically. But you need to be credible and responsible and when you're in power and when you're in opposition and they don't apply one rule when you're in power, and when you're in position, you inaugurate other rules and you think it should be different. The rule of law in the Republic of Croatia, spoken of by Mr Tomislav Karamarko, was a previous speaker in the 1990s and should have been respected. The rule of law in the Republic of Croatia was 2006. In 2008, and all those years, there was neither the strength nor the will to touch the things that have in certain ways hampered Croatia's path to the EU. We never had the strength to investigate crimes and all that was negative in the Croatian past. And now that's what the people who participated were talking about, who were carrying the burden of responsibility that was headed the service that was supposed to be working, who said it was all clean. I'm asking a question here and in my own name why didn't you do it and why hasn't it been solved all these years? Why didn't we say it ourselves if there was a problem? Let's explore and be clear before the Croatian public first and then in front of the European public. And that is why I repeat that this law that we are bringing today is also a question of the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, of all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. There is no selective interest in one part of Croatian society for us in the SDP, and for the other part of Croatian society there is no such thing. We're talking about one person who's going through the media as a synonym for this law that doesn't fit the truth at all, and we know it all very well, but those who don't want to see it push it into the first place. But if we're going to do that, these are the people who were the closest associates of these same people who were now the closest associates and the late president to the key to saying that in time for the Republic of Croatia. and if there was something not clarified and if there is one we must do in Croatia, it must be done by Croatian courts, it must be done by all the institutions of the Croatian State and resolve the problem. It is our obligation as a parliamentary majority and this government and we will meet that obligation to the end, and that means that nothing can remain unexplained, unexplored and unprocessed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43735	Thank you, Your Honor. It is the club of independent representatives and respected representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43736	Your Honor. No one's ever been to me and Mrs. Kosor that I respect. No one's ever told me how to vote or how to speak. Mr. Karamarko spoke earlier about the rejection of totalitarianism, and you asked who is for democracy, who is for the rule of law. And just before that, his vice president of the club, Mr. Mlakar, said that the HDZ club would work on the basis of the "former Rules of Procedure", I quote him, not the one who was adopted five minutes later, more precisely on the basis of which they were elected. And imagine now what would happen in this country if someone said I won't respect the Penal Code, I won't respect the financial regulations, I won't respect the Transport Act, etc. Finally, let's imagine what it led to when a minority there in the 1990s said I would not honor the will of the majority. And you know who used to say that he only recognizes the court of his own party? That's what he said there if I wasn't wrong in '28. Josip Broz Tito and HDZ have taken 23 years since the establishment of democracy to come simply to these principles. But look, gentlemen, just today's headlines in our newspaper "Former Intelligence Helps Organize the First Assembly of HDZ" by Novi List or what Mr. Jakova's historian says. The company Jakovina believes that the political leadership of Yugoslavia had to know in principle about the liquidations but that their role has not yet been explored. Why? Because the police have never submitted the documentation to the archives of the Croatian Marriage, so we don't even know what the truth is. Well, let it be done. Why don't you do it? So the land of heaven swore that every secret should be known. In Croatia, things became more complicated, he said, as the refugees played a prominent role in the creation of the state. Jakovina says that nothing else happened but what happened in Germany after World War II when some other intelligence officers created a new German secret service. If it goes after this Law, the amendments to the Constitution will open up another possibility for those who have been in good time to respond to reconciliation policies. And let them respond. Everyone who has committed such a crime should answer. Every crime should be sanctioned. And we know that UDBA committed crimes, but crimes can't be attributed to them alone. And what about one Blaž Kraljević who was also liquidated somewhere in Bosnia and Herzegovina's 90s, one Paraguayan, one Milan Levar, Busic. Politically, they're victims of one time. That time after the '90s. There are also the Paki plains and Laura and Sisak and that I don't list all of this when many simply because of their origins also simply ended up as they ended. I agree to put a point on I already once. To stop politicizing. But I also agree with what Mr. Dragovan said, why the HDZ didn't call for, say, a shushka to co-operate with a Perkovic. Why did Tudjman tolerate all this? Why is the intelligence community, why did the police say everything is clean and here's the case? And let it open. Why DORH said everything is clean. To say, on the other hand, that this government is protecting the crimes of any regime, including the one under the quotes of the "suspensive" so it's simply offensive. So which of these generations of people in this government has anything to do with UDBA, when these people were just born? Will we tomorrow demand the extradition of those from Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia, Serbia who worked in those bodies? I guess we should. Who is this King Kong? It's probably the Chief of Police. I don't think the Prime Minister meant Mr. Perkovic. But no matter what, we have nothing to hide, however, I'm afraid that tomorrow, let's say, this new constitutional intervention will pass as well as this one when we talk about non-deprecated conversion. What has been done on this matter simply has not been done very much or anything. The fact is that the people who were in immigration were killed, and that should certainly be tried by those who issued such orders. And what do we have left after that? Unfortunately, we might have a period after the '90s. But all in all, the Government must cooperate with both Germany and Europe. I understand that she wanted to remove events from the '90s, let her go after this Law amending the Constitution. If, but certainly, no one should plant anything either, and let the archives open and let historians finally, along with the lawyers, give the state's attorneys a court of law for a while.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43737	Thank you very much. Club of Independent Representatives Jadranka Kosor and HGS representative and respected representative Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43738	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I fully agree with what Mr. Dragovan said earlier, when we are in power and when we are in opposition we must always say the same. I've talked about it many times since I said something about it in the Croatian Parliament. So, and to stand up, not only to speak but to stand up for the same values. So I suggest we go back from these debates from afar, now far past when we talk about communist times to return for a moment now, to today and to the decisions we make at this moment. So to say a few hours before Croatia enters the European Union. What will be questioned in the first minutes of our entry into the European Union, therefore, as 28 proud members, when Croatian becomes 24 official languages, is Croatia's credibility. She'll also question herself through the work we've done, so through the negotiations. Negotiations were painful and difficult. And our negotiations certainly meant a lot of laws, a lot of reforms, laws that were criteria for opening and closing certain chapters. One of the laws we discussed here I believe with special attention, then in the government was certainly this Law which is related to the application of the European Arrest Warrant Institute. I remind you once again, we have changed the Constitution and the consultations, i.e. in consultations on amendments to the Constitution, there has never been a single remark from the then ruling coalition but not from opposition parties that any restriction should be introduced in this Law. That it is of course that we would consider it and that our negotiators would work on that lead. When the Law came in 2010 after the amendment of the Constitution to the Croatian Parliament, as well as as as I know, there were no objections to that provision, nor were there amendments to be made to that effect, the restriction concerning August 2002 was installed. If such an amendment had been made, we in the government would have considered it very much. Since 2010 since that law was passed, no legal, judicial circumstance has changed in this respect. Nothing's changed. We negotiated the Law applying the European arrest warrant as originally stated in the 2010 Law. And of course I absolutely disagree with those who speak do not need to invest amendments. So what, then, why the Croatian Parliament? Of course, amendments should be made if there was a need to invest them in 2000, i.e. to be submitted in 2010 as can be today. And that is why I have proposed as Prime Minister at the time, and now the representative in the Croatian Assembly of Amendments on behalf of his club only one, to remove this restriction, so to delete this restriction on 7 August 2002. Nothing more and nothing less. I think that if the ruling majority accepts this amendment that we will first and foremost lower tensions, and what is terribly important at this point for people dear, dear friends, colleagues and colleagues, we are entering the European Union, there is no need for the government to enter with any open side, none. There's no need for that. Accept that amendment. In two days, believe it will be forgotten who submitted the amendment, but we will have a law under which there will be no single remark in the European Commission. I'm not interested in names, names are irrelevant and it's bad that we talk about names, we talk about law, rule of law, the institutions of the rule of law, the rule of law, and we talk about the path that we've been through, what we've negotiated, and that law passed in 2010 through the National Committee where they were representatives of all parties. As for the further steps proposed by the Government, I support. We change the Constitution, change the Constitution, no political murder, motivated political murder should go unpunished. Mr. President, the first speaker spoke for a minute and three seconds longer, so please provide me with the time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43739	That's not true.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43740	Yeah, yeah, I was measuring.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43741	So am I.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43742	But it doesn't matter, I can because I'm telling you I'm really convinced of what I'm saying from the bottom of my heart I'm gonna end up. So I, of course, believe you're all interested in closing this book once, who were these UDBA associates and whether any of them might still be active in political life. Let's close it once, close that book, and now I suggest you vote for my amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43743	Thank you very much. Next club and respected Jozo Radoš on behalf of the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43744	Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. We obviously have a hard time opening books, but we're even harder to close once we open them, so that's a little bit. I understand the appeal of colleagues of Jadranka Kosor, but it obviously won't work that way. Coming back last night and listening to the news this story seemed to me that it was hard for anyone to understand, even though I have 20 years and more of a career experience, and the purpose of politics is to be as simple and closer to the citizens as possible, that citizens can understand it, and it's obviously not that. So the party that boasts the protection of Croatian defenders stands for a provision that will allow for the prosecution and extradition of them. The party that started and was consistently consistent on the European integration line comes into conflict with the European Commission right before the entry and now who can understand the situation. But this situation could have been resolved long ago or that if it is deemed necessary to enter it into pre-accession documents, and Croatia did not ask as counterpart Kosor said, and many countries that have fewer reasons to do so than Croatia did, requested the exception. And the second marginal case that came into focus, the Perkovic case could have been resolved in the last 15 years if it was wanted. Therefore, it is not a matter of protecting the perpetrators of the killings at the time of communism, why would it, which would be the motive of this government, but rather a question if it is a subject, and to some extent, is certainly the protection of a prominent and powerful intelligence officer, an even more powerful minister and all the possible and impossible secrets he has. But all these are actually issues that are marginal to what Croatia needs to do. Of course, it is not good for us to come into conflict with the European Commission, or European bodies. It is awkward to do so just days before entering, so the day before the ceremony, and three days before entering the European Union, but it is not tragic in itself. What is problematic is the possibility of Croatian defenders and that is the motive that the Prime Minister pointed out and I fully agree with that motive, I understand it, in a way exposed to frequent judicial problems and not to turn it into a variety of policies. It's possible and it's likely to happen to us. Just remember that a benign case of Purd to the extent that the case was harassed by the Croatian public and, of course, harassed that man and his family, which proved to be completely innocent. This provision, if so, would be abolished, certainly allows. Justice is blind, but political use of justice exists and should also be looked after. So there is no question of the rule of law here, the rule of law would also be to solve the Perkovic case or to regulate this properly if it is deemed necessary to protect Croatian defenders. Today we are protecting Croatian defenders, and tomorrow we are for the European Union. So whatever we're doing, we're right, it's a position of colleagues from the HDZ, nor is it some terrible conflict with the European Union. If this is a conflict, this conflict will be resolved and I am sure there will be no difficulty on the main path of Croatia as a member of the European Union. We will see what will be, it should be done sooner if it was considered necessary, I think it should be run, Croatia is in a specific situation, but if it is not done anything for it. We should not fear any conflict with EU bodies will not endanger Croatia's place in the EU. Therefore, the HNS Representatives' Club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43745	Thank you, too. Now we can have the debate on the text of the law over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and the HGS. I would like to ask the representative of the motionary, Honored Sandra Artuković Kunst, Deputy Minister to show off about the amendments. First, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted within the deadline in accordance with the Rules of Procedure became an integral part of the final draft law. Amendments of the Committee on Legislatives, Honored Deputy Number One.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43746	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government accepts amendment number one of the Committee on the Law of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43747	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number two to Article 14 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43748	The government accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43749	Thank you very much. Amendment number three.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43750	The government also accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43751	Thank you very much. They became an integral part of the final bill. The amendment of the independent representative of Jadranka Kosor. Amendment, please read one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43752	Thank you very much. The amendment of the respected independent representatives of Jadranka Kosor and HGS shall apply to Article 132a. which regulates the application of the European arrest warrant and which is prescribed in paragraph 3, in respect of which the offences will be carried out by the European arrest warrant, and given the time of the offence. The proposed application for criminal offences was committed after 7 August 2002. Why after 7 August 2002? Because this is the date on which the Council of Europe Framework Decision on the European Arrest Order and the surrender procedures between Member States enters into force. The decision was taken on 13 June and, as I said, came into force on 7 August 2002. In that decision, Member States shall decide to execute the European arrest warrant for criminal offences committed after the decision has entered into force. That's article 32 right there. So the rule is enforcement after the decision comes into force. Some European countries have gone beyond that, have made a step forward and have determined that the application of the European arrest warrant extends and to criminal offences committed before the entry into force. So this is something that some decisions have voluntarily implemented, or installed in their legislative systems. We will not open any conflict with the EU, and this is something that has been created in this political debate completely unnecessary, because we have installed the Council of Europe's framework decision as fully as it says. It is therefore applicable to offences committed after 7 August 2002. And we're not with this provision on the contrary, we're just embezzling a decision as it is. An indicative decision has been taken with a time-effect since its entry into force and existing instruments of judicial international co-operation have been applied for the previous period. We had until 7 August 2002, for example, the Agreement of the Republic of Croatia and EUROJUSTICE since 2007, and we have other instruments such as not to list now. So this is not any news that disrupts international legal co-operation. If the reasons for this proposed amendment concern the public of the particular case mentioned, then only in order to justify the refusal of the amendment should it be indicated that the overestimated possibilities of this law are because the limitation of law enforcement is an obstacle to the execution of the European arrest warrant provided for in Article 21(1) of point 5, and is also provided for by the statute of limitations as a reason and in the framework decision itself. So, we have fully implemented this framework decision. The latter examines the possibility of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on the non-depreciation of certain criminal offences and that is the appropriate legal path. For these reasons, we do not accept the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43753	Dear representative of Jadranka Kosor as the proposing amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43754	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ma'am. So once again, I don't know which time I'm stressing my amendment doesn't apply to any particular case. By making that amendment, I didn't mean any name, not one name, but practice, and you mentioned everything perfectly about the framework decision other than the fact that 22 of the 27 at this point do not have a restriction, so they have no restriction and no restriction regarding 7 August 2002. So, and that was very short of my explanation regarding that amendment. I repeat, we have negotiated something once again under certain conditions that we have negotiated, and also this concerning the European Arrest Warrant Institute, the Republic of Croatia has ratified our accession treaty, including Germany, which did so in the final step of June 6th of this year. So, taking care of everything we're discussing today. So, the 27 EU Member States ratified our accession document as we negotiated it, voted in this House in 2010. We change those provisions at a few hours before joining the EU. Finally, when we become a member in a few hours, we are likely to activate our judicial bodies, the State's Attorney's Office as well as those mechanisms towards some other citizens of other EU countries. I only indicate one person who, according to the indictment in the Republic of Croatia, has been bribed in one court case, which is why one citizen of the Republic of Croatia is today in prison according to a first-degree sentence for ten years. Another person who allegedly gave bribes could not or could not have been heard in the process of boredom. Therefore, I expect the DORH to activate the mechanism towards that person in the neighbouring country, specifically Hungary. Then will that country change its law, ladies and gentlemen? Please, Mr. President, vote. [[Leko: Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-06-20-0.u43755	Please state the amendment of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. To vote this law requires 76 votes out of the total number, so the supra-almost of all MPs in the Croatian Parliament. Who's up for the law? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour and 6 votes against the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States is in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Parliament tomorrow will see you at the meeting of the Croatian Parliament for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Please prepare your materials and benches so that we can find all these materials on Wednesday 3.07. at 9.30 p.m. so that we can continue at the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament with the proposal of the Law on Strategic Investments, Projects of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 420. Thank you very much. I'll see you tomorrow. Dear fellow Members of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues in the Croatian Parliament continue with the 8th session, Plenary session of the Croatian Parliament. It is on the agenda: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on host activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 392; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. We can put up with the amendments until the end of the debate. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final proposal of the Law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Tourism, the Committee on Economy. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Yeah. Minister of Tourism, dear Darko Lorencin. Here you go.
