ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63823	Dear fellow MPs and fellow representatives of the Croatian Parliament, good morning! I suggest we start working at the plenary session of the 11th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you. I suggest that given that we have some changes to the initiative to hold an extraordinary session, that we establish the session plan on a new agenda. So with the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. The applicants for an extraordinary session requested that items 5 and 7 of the draft agenda be left out, namely the Proposal for a Law on the short payment of certain material rights to public service employees, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 573 and second, Proposal for an amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and for discussion and decision on these points to be held at the next session of the Croatian Parliament in January of next year. Article 205 The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are set out firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws according to an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the PZE marking is not decided in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these are the laws under points 1 and 3 of the proposed agenda. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the proposed law under point 2 of the proposed agenda, whether any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Financial Stability Council Act, CZ No. 575? Your Honor, Agent Ivan Shuker, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63824	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, since we have now found ourselves in a business vacuum, so Article 220 is precisely prescribed how and under what conditions an extraordinary session is called. The last time we didn't have a chance to explain it, you didn't call the meeting in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and in Article 220, although you didn't, in all that request by most of the MPs in the explanation, did not state what article it was, in fact, the article is but which I think, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament, if you called for an extraordinary session that was not explained by those who called it, you have no right to take certain points of the agenda off the agenda, so more clearly, that these points that should be discussed today do not deserve anything, and I will talk about it later, to be the subject of an extraordinary session. The only real reason to call an extraordinary session is to discuss the Constitution. All these other laws are made by the Government in accordance with the law and the Rules of Procedure on how it can pass regulations with legal force at the time when the Croatian Parliament could not meet. Also, we could normally discuss these laws on Friday afternoon and Saturday without any problems. And therefore, given that there is no situation in the Rules of Procedure at all like this which you have now pointed out, so you simply cannot take off the agenda points no matter how you vote because it is precisely known in which and what conditions an extraordinary session is called. These points you leave to remain today, that they are discussed are no subject for an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. The only way to say so under quotes is to reason for an extraordinary session could be constitutional changes. Since you move that, I think that Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament you are violating the Rules of Procedure and I would ask for a break in the name of the HDZ Club before it is obvious, because I don't think that you are simply allowed to do this because we are breaking definitely if we continue to do all the rules of the game by which this High House has functioned over the past 23 years. When at the end of the year they had to make far more difficult and fateful decisions or at the end of the year, at certain times and for the future of the Republic of Croatia, it was not what is being done today. Therefore, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, on behalf of the HDZ Club, I am looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63825	You'll get Stanko once we've established the agenda and we'll move on to the agenda. That's what the Rules of Procedure is supposed to do. And in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and the request and the will of the half-dominated majority of MPs in the Croatian Parliament and with the precisely established topics and reasons for holding the session, I also called on the session at the request of the majority and their right to withdraw the proposal of a particular item of the agenda to change the agenda. So we remain on the question whether any of the MPs have any relation to the Council's Financial Stability Act. He didn't have anyone. Did you have one? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63826	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, the law, the proposal for a law on credit institutions with a final proposal for the law has no reason for an emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63827	It's P.Z.E., a respected colleague, that's P.Z.E., European.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63828	What law do you mean, this one?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63829	The Financial Stability Council Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63830	Also, this law could have been discussed in normal procedure. It is known exactly how and when the Financial Stability Council could be established. And I don't see any reason to discuss this at an extraordinary session. This is just one fig leaf to call a session on constitutional changes, and today you move constitutional changes from the agenda. So this is a fig leaf to discuss amending the Constitution, and we will not discuss amendments and changes to the Constitution at an extraordinary session. We therefore oppose the urgency to pass this law and ask for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63831	Thank you very much. I understand. We're going to vote for an emergency procedure. Please determine the quorum in the assembly how many MPs there are. Thank you very much. We can decide on the agenda. We've got enough of that. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Financial Stability Council Act, P.Z. No. 575. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in need? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 74 votes in favour and 20 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure is included the Final Proposal for a Council on Financial Stability, P.Z. No. 575. Do any of the MPs have objections to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There is. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63832	So, Mr. President, the proposal for a decision to set up the Committee on Fiscal Policy is also of no use to be the subject at which an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament would be discussed. So a point that could have been discussed on Friday or Saturday or a point that could have been discussed at the first plenary session after the winter break. To God, it will still be 15 days sooner or later. But especially interesting is the final draft law on the central insurance register. My colleagues and colleagues, we discussed last week that unique form of JOPD, I think it's called. So we've made a decision on what kind of form will be submitted since 1.1, but we haven't made an amendment to the Central Insurance Register Act. Also, a law that could be discussed on Friday and Saturday in the second reading without a problem. So, for no reason to be classified as the reason for calling for an extraordinary session. So both are the fig leaves again to hide that the extraordinary session is called together solely for constitutional changes, and ultimately we will not discuss constitutional changes at an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. This really shows one extreme indemnity and irresponsibility towards Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63833	In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure and on one request and on another, we will vote in the Croatian Parliament. Please state who's in charge of the emergency procedure? In fact, to include in the agenda, not the urgency of the procedure, a proposal for a decision to set up a Committee on Fiscal Policy. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. What's the score? Thank you very much. I find that, by a majority of votes, 76 votes to, 24 votes against the agenda, we have entered or established in the agenda of the Proposal for a Decision establishing the Committee on Fiscal Policy. Now let's decide whether to keep it on the agenda, to include the Final Bill on the Central Insurance Register. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Who's against it? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 76 votes in favour and 25 votes against the agenda included the Final Bill on the Central Insurance Register, second reading, P.Z. No. 508. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, the agenda is thus established. Now we'd like to move to the agenda by, so if you'll excuse me, I'm sorry. I agree. Now we're gonna give a 10 minute break. I'll see you at 55. That's enough for you. How about when you want? At 10.00. You got it. It's 9:00. [[CONTINUATION AFTER MEETING IN 10.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Club, first respected colleague Davorin Mlakar and respected colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63835	Thank you very much, well-respected President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Maybe we could have avoided some of this because we were looking for an explanation on Friday, or we were reporting to point to a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you didn't give us your word then. Here, it was fixed at today's extraordinary session. On Friday, you called for an extraordinary meeting of the Parliament for 18, 19 and 20 December at the request of most of the representatives in the Croatian Parliament. At that time we wanted to warn, and we are doing this now, this is the request of most MPs in the Croatian Parliament, who unfortunately suffers from some complaints in accordance with our Rules of Procedure for which you could not do it. The first is that the majority of MPs wrote on the basis of Article 220(1), we apply for an extraordinary session. Probably at that speed, as the Constitution is quickly adopted, they forgot to write a legal act on the basis of which they seek an extraordinary session of the Assembly. Article 220 may, in this case, be part of the Water Act, of the Forests Act, but this, as it is proposed, does not meet the conditions for it to appear unambiguously. Secondly, you are the president based on Article 220. The Rules of Procedure, if you call upon it, may convene a meeting at the request of the majority of MPs only by respecting paragraph 3 of that article which states that the request referred to in paragraph 1, hence that request for an extraordinary session, shall be submitted to the President of the Parliament in writing and shall be reasoned. The fact that there is no justification for an extraordinary session in an application not even referred to in a legal act on the basis of which it is lodged, you should not have adopted such a request. And from the reasons they wrote, the request is submitted because of the need to consider the following proposals at the extraordinary session and in a series of these proposals under point 7 as clearly the least important is the proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Obviously, in the meantime, something happened that made you think that this request should not be considered at all at an extraordinary session. If that was the reason for calling for an extraordinary session, then today’s session should not have been. What counterpart Schuker was saying at the outset, there is a Law on the Government's power to resolve certain issues by regulations when the Parliament does not meet, all the other 6 points fall within the category of those which the Government could regulate by its regulation. That is why we claim that this session is and we have warned of the different interpretations of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament called illegally that it has only caused new costs, and that in the end the only reason why but you did not want to write it you called the session is not indicated here at all. Only for illustration, even for changes to the Constitution you have 5 pages of reasons to see why each act is changed. It would be at least correct if applicants in several sentences explained their proposal, not that an extraordinary session of the Assembly is being convened because of something that will ultimately not be held because you propose that the debate be postponed for later. We're wondering what the point of this session was and what it's all about. Thank you very much. Stay till the end? [[Leko: Stay until the end.]] Since, unfortunately, in this emergency session, I took the time of my colleague Shucker's other 6 points of the agenda, they do not meet the business reasons for being the reason for the extraordinary session because there is a way that these points could be resolved by the government's action without the Assembly calling for an extraordinary session. If you have reconsidered the amendments to the Constitution which will now allow you, under that proposal, to convene the meetings of the President of the Parliament, it is not yet a provision which is in force that you could use it. In this way you are causing problems for all MPs in the Parliament, the Croatian public, looking for an extraordinary session of the Parliament without any real reason for the extraordinary session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63836	Thank you, too. And I must say that I am sorry that this session's proposal was based on experience, or on copying what HDZ did when it was in power. We only did better, so in our request for a session, as an explanation, we stated that we want to discuss very precise points of the agenda. And there are exactly why these points are important. So, the standard that exists in the Croatian Assembly for the Extraordinary Session of the Croatian Assembly was maintained and improved. Injury of the Rules of Procedure, here's your esteemed colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63837	President-in-Office of the Parliament, you have violated Article 238. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are intermittent with the assessments that I made on behalf of the club, claiming that you prescribed the conduct in the Croatian Assembly of HDZ that he once conducted the sessions. You're always remembering the inspired speech of your vice president, second and different power. And that's true. You're a government that doesn't even know how to literally rewrite what other authorities have done, so I'm telling you that the second time you're at least literally copying what HDZ did, I assure you it's going to be much better than what you're doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63838	Well, I'm not commenting on you. I give reasons for which the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament also warns me. On this warning you've just given, I agree. It should be said that it is the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament when the article is not run. That's where you really contributed to improving the calling standards for an extraordinary session. Thank you very much. Now we're going to go to work on the agenda. Now we're going to go to work on the agenda. - Final proposal of the Credit Institutions Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 572 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall include the first and second readings, and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate in accordance with Article 197. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the final draft law was carried out by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Is there a representative who wants a proposal? Yes, dear Deputy Secretary of Finance Boris Lalovec, please, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63840	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. You have before you a proposal for the Credit Institutions Act. The newer Credit Institutions Act is adopted in order to bring Croatian legislation into line with the latest European Banking Regulation, which consists of Directive 2013/36/EU of the so-called capital.../The speaker speaks English./... Directive No 4, the Capital Requirements Directive, the accession of the activities of credit institutions and the prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment funds and Regulation 575/2013. The so-called Capital Requirements Regulation, prudential conclusions for credit institutions and investment firms. The time limit for the transposition of the Directive is 1 January 2014 and the same date starts in all Member States with a direct application of Regulation 575/2013. In addition to the transposition of the Directive, this law also allows for the implementation of this Regulation, infringements of the provisions for non-compliance with this Regulation shall be laid down. Part of the area regulated by the regulation is currently regulated by the relevant decisions of the Croatian National Bank, so-called the decisions on the guarantee of capital and the adequateness of the guarantee capital which will cease to be valid on the date of entry into force of this law. The redefined duties and responsibilities of the management and supervisory boards of credit institutions are also determined by the powers of the committee established by the supervisory board of the credit institution. So now there are three committees, a committee of appointments, a Committee on Risks and a Committee on Receipts. Also introduced are the protective layers of capital, the protective layer for preserving capital, the anticyclical protective layer, the protective layer for structural systemic risk, the protective layer for global, other systemically important credit institutions. The purpose of the capital conservation layer is to strengthen capital at the time of expansion in order to cover the loss at the time of recession. Then, in detail, the supervision entities in relation to the membership of the Republic of Croatia in the EU, i.e. the power to carry out a supervisory exercise, to operate over the branch of the credit institution of that Member State. Expressing the super-visional measures of a credit institution from a Member State and the super-vision, the branch of a credit institution from third countries and the compensation for carrying out a super-vision. The action and exchange of information between the Croatian National Bank and other competent authorities of the Member States have been further arranged. Supervisional measures have also been redefined that the CNB is authorised to monitor a poor credit institution with the aim of improving the security and stability of business and eliminating established illegalities. The work and duties of the administration have been redefined. Provisions have also been introduced which prescribes why the so-called whistler in such a way as to enable the CNB to provide a reliable way of delivering a notification of breach of the rules and the worker who has reported a certain breach of the rules must not be discriminated against or brought into a more unfavourable position than other workers. So this is a directive called.../The speaker speaks English./... or a Capital Requirements Directive that strengthens the protective layer of the bank's capital. As you know, the Croatian financial system is stable. The current capital adequateness according to our regulations is 12%, in Europe it is 8%, so as far as the stability of the financial system is concerned, Croatia has a much stronger share of the protective capital. This work even more strongly defined certain layers of that protective capital that, at a time when we talk about expansion, banks have to invest some part of the money in additional capital to make it easier and more resistant to the crisis system and it is also important to introduce a protective layer of banks for those banks that are systemically important because it does not matter if the crisis hits some smaller bank in a country that is not important or for those major banks that are systematically important that they can actually open this one chain and these banks that are systemicly and globally important for both the EU area and for them an additional layer of capital is also established. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63841	Thank you very much, Deputy Minister. Do the rapporteurs of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the HDZ's Club of Representatives and the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63842	Dear colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, I think we will all agree that there is actually one very important law and what I want to say at first on behalf of the HDZ Club, we, as previously colleagues, are opposed to the way, the moment and the procedure in which this law is adopted, not its content. Because as I said before us, there is a very important law that regulates the work and functioning of the banking industry, and on the other hand there is, in fact, a law that shows how it works and how EU membership affects our daily work, that is, in this case, the daily work of the Croatian banking industry. With that in this law, we, as the Deputy Minister pointed out, are in fact transposing the regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and we accept essentially what is prescribed at EU level. In other words, we accept and verify the fact that the Croatian banking system acts as an integral part of the European banking system and that its integration and integration will continue in the future. In fact, the result is that numerous and bile debates that are very often led to the functioning of the Croatian banking system and forget, are omitted, in the way they are regulated, in the way they work, in the way they control the banking system, there is no difference in the way in which they apply in other Member States. Therefore, since we are transposing this law into the Croatian legal system a regulation adopted on 26 June, then of course the question is why and why we have found ourselves in a situation where this law is adopted today in a hasty procedure without the possibility that all that the regulation and the directive are prescribed was not in a position and that there is no opportunity for this to be discussed in a broader manner or for it to be extended and wider knowledge in the Croatian public. No matter how technical and specific matter is involved, but we believe that it is important for the Croatian public, not only a narrowly specific and professional circle of people, to be aware of how and how these provisions are and what are the rules in the context of which the Croatian banking system operates. We therefore hold that there has been enough time for these provisions of the directive, together with the provisions of the regulation, to be transposed into the Croatian legal space and to be discussed in quality. In view of this, I repeat once again, we are opposed to the way this law is passed and therefore, in the vote on this law, we will remain abstentioned solely because of the procedure. What I want to stress, however, is that the HDZ Club supports content and supports new instruments made available to the CNB so that it can strengthen and monitor the stability and security of the Croatian banking system. It will manage future stability of the Croatian banking system, control rules and use instruments that will be available to other Member States. In cooperation with them and in a way that is consistent with the way and rules that other Member States do. What we also welcome is the fact that these so-called safeguards of capital will allow the CNB to manage the capital ratio of the banking system above what is prescribed by the regulation because we must be aware that the direct application of the said Capital Requirements Regulation actually introduces an 8% capital adequacy rate, which is 4% lower than what is prescribed today by the still existing Credit Institutions Act. We believe that any reduction in the capital adequateness rate would be both bad and wrong for the Croatian banking system, so we expect the CNB to use the instruments provided to it by this law and ensure that the effective capital adequacy rate to be applied in Croatia remains a minimum of 12%. We believe that this is also required by the Croatian economic and Croatian economic opportunities since maintaining the stability of the banking system and preventing any problems in this system is crucial for one day we hope for the recovery that the Croatian economy will experience. With this, I would like to stress once again that the HDZ Club will remain restrained due to the procedure, the content we support and expect from the CNB that it will use the instruments listed here to maintain that the adequateness of the Croatian banking system's capital remains a minimum of 12%, as is the current Credit Institutions Act today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63843	Thank you, Your Honor, but we have replicas. The first replica of the respected representative, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63844	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Dalic, you have said what is the essence of what is happening today, and that is that even in these provisions that have been transposed from the directive are not controversial, simply Croatia must play by the rules of the common market of the common financial system, and also Croatia is not yet in the euro area. And what needs to be said is that 12% capital adequateness has in some ways preserved the stability of the banking sector. But what is not good, and this directive was adopted in the 6th month, and it was 6 months of time for it to be incorporated into the law, to be discussed as you said in the professional public, in the interested public, and that is primarily the banking sector, and so that everyone and the businessmen and everyone finds out what this is going to be new and ultimately what the objectives and what real tasks should be of the CNB. Unfortunately, however, this law was used by someone as a story and as a reason to call an extraordinary session to discuss constitutional changes. Since constitutional changes, we know exactly what this law means, and therefore the logical thing is that we support this proposed law because it offers nothing bad, offers something better and gives certain instruments to the CNB for the control of the banking sector because I repeat, thank dear God, so the financial sector of the Republic of Croatia remains stable at these times because that the banking sector is kneeling on its knees, and then today it would tell me quite differently about the situation in Croatia. Those who have never in their life made a financial document say whatever they want, but these are facts and truths.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63845	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63846	Thank you very much. So I agree with you, colleague Shuker, namely this law may be one of the first examples and an example to discuss and analyse how and what dynamics Croatia will transmit and actually transpose EU-level directives and spread knowledge and knowledge here in Croatia. Since the directives were adopted in June, it is therefore the documents discussed at EU level and known long before June of the month, meaning that Croatian authorities, including the CNB, could be prepared to transfer the text to the Croatian legal space in a much faster and essentially much more quality manner and that this law does not have to be discussed in an extraordinary session. I therefore think that one of the messages to be drawn from the way this law is being discussed, that, in transposing and adopting the directives that are being adopted at EU level, they should be both more proactive and faster and simply follow those processes and transfer them to Croatia in parallel with their developments at EU level. But here we are today a full member, so we expect that these examples in the future will be no more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63847	Thank you very much. A new replica of the respected representative Srdjana Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63848	Thank you very much, President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues, of course, I agree with you on the appropriateness of the capital. Absolutely that it would be a good race to be kept at 12%, but of course it is an independent decision by the CNB, so it is also very questionable in that segment how much we can interfere, and we believe that you are also satisfied with the way you are and in your expression how the CNB regulates and the adequateness of capital, given the expression that stability in the financial system in Croatia is extremely good. What I wanted to partially replicate in your debate is about the fact that you said that this bill definitely strengthens the stability and security of the banking sector, so here in the replica you can still vote for this law is it a structural law for the banking system and the CNB, and regardless of the procedures we can or do not have to agree with, this point is still on the agenda of the Croatian Parliament voted and I suppose it would be a good message for both the banking system and all together to support it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63849	The reply to the replica of the respected representative Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63850	I, my colleague Gjurkovic, at a personal level and at a human level can understand your call, but democracy is a procedure. That's how they taught us, and that's actually the reason and the procedure is in some way the highest value that is protected and managed by this House. And we believe that this procedure these days and those rules of decision and the mutual relations that this procedure contains are seriously disrupted these days. So we all agree on a very important law, a law that regulates the business of industry that is these days and not just these days but months, these years very often subject and criticism and debate that this law is extremely important and should not be used as one cover for breaking procedures that are caused entirely elsewhere. So our way of voting is, in fact, a sign that we disagree with the overall context in which this law is passed, and yet again we confirm and underline that we support its content. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63851	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63852	Dear fellow Dalic, it is absolutely certain that a very important procedure is for democracy, but between democracy and procedure, a sign of equality would be too simple. The procedure is one of the preconditions for achieving democracy, but it is not a democracy of procedure. I don't think the procedure itself is more important than the content because it has a procedure and no content, but I'm not telling you it's your right and the right of every parliamentary representative to vote in the way he wants to vote on his conscience. You talked about the law that supports Croatian Labours regulate the work and functioning of the banking industry and you have often used the word European Union, we are in line with the European Union, should be made aware and levelled that absolutely no one is against a stable solid banking system. However, it should also be known that the banking system is not part of or obedient to the European Union or in accordance with the European Union. The banking system has risen above the European Union and the European Union is gathering around money, which is the biggest tragedy. Of course, the differences between your notion of the banking system and my concept are different, which is why we're in different parties. Therefore, that a stable banking system is only a question of how it works and whether this banking system is superior to the governments of the European Union or indeed the governments of the Member States of the European Union can regulate the banking system on an equal footing, I doubt that this is possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63853	Thank you very much. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is up to the SDP club and the respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63854	Your Honor, Mr. President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, a respected colleague and colleague. We have already heard that this law is in fact a good part of harmonising with the directives or regulation of the European Commission, and we probably remember that recently in April we had amendments and additions to the Law on Credit Institutions here where we installed a number of things, good and positive things in this law. Here we are now building on what has somehow become our commitment from our membership in the European Union. This is if not the first one seems to me to be such an example that we are directly applying what is being agreed in the European Commission and that is likely to be increasingly common here in our Parliament. I'm not going to list here right now, the Deputy Minister was talking about some of the news that this law introduces, from administrations having new tasks and new responsibilities, to establish new bodies, risk committees, a committee of appointments, etc., to introduce mandatory protective capital at 8% in all credit institutions, therefore for all banks. In our case, it is even bigger, this was the case today, but also that if there is not enough capital to limit the distribution of profits, so that shareholders cannot withdraw capital until they are recapitalised or until a certain amount of protective... is created which is prescribed, which is needed etc. About supervisory, the protection of whistles, it's all more or less said. All in all, therefore, these newspapers are all about strengthening the stability of the financial or banking sector, strengthening institutional controls both within and outside these credit institutions by the state, by the specific nature of our Croatian National Banks and similar institutions in other countries. And since the situation in Europe, in the world with the financial sector, with banks, in general with the crisis, etc., I believe that this is not the last thing that will happen with us and the European Commission, it is likely that such interventions or such changes will be in the future because simply the situation on the financial market, the banking sector and in Europe and the world is such that it simply requires that countries become more involved in the regulation of market relations because it has proved that the concept that we often call the neoliberal concept of capitalism as it was in the financial sector has led to the production of huge problems. Obviously, it has burned to the fingertips that I am simply now and the European Commission is asking that those national laws and states, therefore, become a little more involved in introducing order on the financial market. Finally. It's good to know where the problem is, so I can look for solutions. It's good when you establish a... diagnosis then you can look for a cure. And it seems that, finally, the source of many problems and current crises, not only in us but also in Europe and the world, is well derived from the way the financial sector worked, how the banks worked, how all credit institutions worked in general, and the good part of the problem just came out of it. From the race for as much money as possible, out of the greed for profit as the owner and management of these banks have simply come to this situation that we are in today, and it is good to have such regulation of market relations. I would say that this law protects both the clients and the citizens and... and the businesses, we also protect the state that it is less exposed to risks, but I would say that we protect the banks from themselves because it has simply proved that often times it has not been possible for its greed. When I say that we are protecting the state, so our state guarantees everyone a safe savings amounting to 100,000 euros, it was up to 50, now that we have entered the European Union 100 000 euros. Therefore, in order not to happen again that when it is good for banks to make profits to go to owners, to stimulate and to make very good managers, and when problems come, then the state should be given to citizens and savings. Of course, even if the state has to do so, it is good that the state introduces a certain order in order to also prevent preventive measures to make it harder than it does, as few cases as possible. Obviously this is what, when there is a certain imbalance in the economy and here there is a certain balance in the relationship that the state has to intervene. In this regard, of course, this shows, unfortunately, the situation with us that, this greed that was with foreign banking institutions and which did not take care enough of the client regardless of whether he was a citizen or a company, is to question both the long-term sustainability and the possibility of working and profitability at all and the work of these banks. Because when a client is exhausted, then he's no longer a client, then he's a case, and no one can profit from it, or anyone who works with him. That is why it is good that the European Commission has finally, therefore, finally introduced stricter rules. It is good that these rules must apply to us and it is good that we have introduced some rules before, and some that are stricter, of course, should continue to be maintained because the behaviour, the current behaviour of the banking sector, did not give the right to have the state standing with its hands cut off. I wish in these or similar changes, interventions started ten years ago. We would not certainly be in this situation today where we are and in this deep crisis in general in Europe, even in the world, above all, in Europe where we are. Better late than never. They all say it is or it's like this. Says the banking system and the financial system is the blood flow of the economy. Yeah, and when he gets sick, then the whole body gets sick. And it's precisely to avoid getting sick of the whole organism if it needs to get better in that bloodstream, so to introduce more order, more responsibility, a little less greed, and more responsibility for both citizens and the economy. Because in the end, if both citizens and the economy fall to their feet and the financial sector will no longer have to work with and from whom to live and from whom to take their profits and profits. Anyway, so this is definitely good and it's no big deal that we're discussing here's the date today? For three, four days, a week before Christmas, and during this period when the Constitution does not regularly sit. I think that if, when there are good solutions, there should be no problem getting together or here today as we have gathered together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63855	Thank you very much, Your Honor. One replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63856	Dear colleague Jelusic, you said two, three findings that I agree with. One is what's better than ever, less greed for banks. Let's just say we went into the banking sector ten years ago it would have been a lot better, so let's say we started last year, this year, or we could go into a debate about the foreign exchange clause tomorrow would have been even better. However, the government of the Kukuriku coalition does not want to discuss this for as long as at the level of Europe they agree or so long until it comes from Europe to discuss foreign exchange clauses. If you remember the former governor of the National Bank in such a way as to dispute the right even to discuss the foreign exchange clause, that several months before he resigned from his post as governor in Opatija, he said at counseling that a gradual suspension of the foreign exchange clause should finally begin. It's not good, you said we were protecting our clients. We're still not protecting enough bank clients and it's not good when they're the only stable banks I've ever said before. There is room for the state to talk to the banking industry and really protect Croatian citizens, and it will protect them as much as they will have the courage.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63857	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63858	Well, I'm glad my colleague Vuksic that you agree with the good part of my thesis and that I'm really glad. However, I also understand that you do not want to see it, although you certainly see that this government has done a lot when it comes to consumer protection, protecting citizens from banks. So three months, five months, actually somewhere from the fourth month until last month we discussed here in this House and about the Parliament exactly how to protect the citizens who came into an unfavourable position against the banks. And of course there were objections to meddling in market relations, infringing the freedom of entrepreneurship, etc. However, this government had the courage, the strength to enter that duel, to protect the citizens, because in this case they were really how to say those who pulled the thick end. So it was never our goal to destroy banks, nor to destroy banks, but to introduce certain order, to introduce certain if you want and justice where both banks will be well but also to those and clients, so both citizens and the economy, and not as they have so far been too good and others have been on death or extinction at least when it comes to their economic potential. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63859	Thank you very much. We're going to continue to discuss the club representations. It is up to the respected representative Boro Grubisic and the HDSSB club in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63860	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Today, a word is used that is very interesting and is increasingly used. That word is the banking industry as a colleague here said. When we say industry, then one thinks of factory chimneys, halls, the railway track that leads to that industry, etc. But when we say the banking industry, then we see something quite conflicting. As you enter the bank, it's already awe-inspiring for you from the front door and the bank's accommodation in the city and beyond. I also need to pick up ebanovina furniture, ebanovina carpentry, window visions, and I don't know any brass locks or anything. How is this a beautiful name that is sewn on so-called credit banking institutions, the banking industry. I guess that's what they wanted to be called the banking industry. We also discussed here in April was the Credit Institutions Act, as Mr Jelusic said, so we discussed the Swiss franc and the consequences that were due to the application of the foreign exchange clause due to the Swiss franc that the banks robbed Croatian citizens and then negotiated the government on behalf of the citizens, I guess it represents citizens that there are not too many or too many banks damaged, but that some little citizens are helped. And then in those crumbs that have been created by such negotiations, you ask the public on our public television are you satisfied and how much your credit war is going to cut? So this one says for 300, he says for 500 and actually the money is in a much larger amount taken to the profits of banks than any cost of benefit for citizens who have raised loans in Swiss francs has been achieved. This legislative proposal is based on the European Directives and bears the label E has 200 pages and is difficult to read 200 pages so quickly and has 390 articles. As if the banks had been wild so far, they had no business at all and were completely unsettled. And maybe they were wild when we know and we have knowledge of their business. For example, over the past 10 years, 40 billion kuna has been paid to companies that were suspicious of insolvency, suspicious of credit rating, and they couldn't be charged, so through such companies they couldn't charge credit claims. 40 billion kunas have placed funds that are controversial. And what's going on? We're passing a pre-bank settlement bill that's at the expense of all but a few banks and the one who actually took the credit so that he can continue to do business again. And who are these people who have raised and who are the owners of these companies? So there's an interesting sentence that says in this text, just to find it, it says like this when you list the terms used in this law. 5 or p. The Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, 575 tight connection. What is it that in our credit institutions, our commercial banks would be a close link? Well, it's a link between politics and the financial sector that works to the harm of its country, its citizens and its people. And based on nepotism, clientelism and obtaining credit and for companies whose owners are related or friendly relations with the ruling political elite. And it harms this country, the poor, exhausted, trampled, stolen, and damages the conscience and consciousness of these people, neither do they regret it. 2 billion kuna is placed in Dalekovod Zagreb with the knowledge that it cannot be returned. Why? How many managers in Dalekvod are in Zagreb who receive a salary greater than all the ministerial salaries or salaries of the President of the Republic? Optima Telecom, METRONET, is run by former or is owned by former ministers. And they got hundreds of millions of kuna loans. Why? Well, because they have political influence. That's what it says here. I wonder how it explained the close connection in Europe, and who? Who's that tightly connected? The construction sector, all sorts of things, not to mention the builders who were connected to the political elites were getting loans. Today, when apartments don't sell a pre-war deal. Banks write off loans to friends of ministers. Let's see, the Privredna banka Zagreb has only one employee and has placed hundreds of millions of kunas and received loans. As with us, someone here said that the financial sector is stable, commercial banks do a great job and, in fact, instead of some going to Remetinec and those from these banks they receive bonuses and hundreds of thousands of kuna or millions of kuna bonuses per year have. And they're our credit fairy institutions. What's the CNB doing? It makes the shield as it says here, not as someone said, a shield or a cape with 12% reserves, and I don't know what, it forces Europe to just say 8%, and we have a 12% protection shield thick. I guess as a tank of this Croatian T-84, 12 cm steel shell is produced in Đura Đaković, and only 8 in Europe. Ours is better and our banks are probably better, ours, and none of them are ours except here's this unfortunate HPB we've been arguing about whether or not it's going to be privatized for as long as or not it's not going to be privatized. Here and now they say they won't. Like the Peljesac bridge, they won't pretend, they won't pretend. Now you see me, now you can't see me. That's how H.P.B.'s gonna sell out. It's not gonna sell out. Now they say they won't, we'll see in a few days or a few months if they will. This wild, liberal capitalism where banks are the main levers of the poverty of people and poverty of citizens of all Western European countries, the cause of unemployment in all countries and the EU, are the main levers and centres of power that then draw political elites to do as they command and dictate. Can we resist it or are we just going to say this, this is the European law and we are all for and we are done, that's how it works. And Europe is fighting it. Did Mr. Obama have to resuscitate American banks? How many billion dollars? Europe is setting up a European Central Bank to control the entire EU's commercial sector through it, some resist it, I say we will not want our independence, our own bank and our banks. What was Orban doing in Hungary in these banking mechanics? He told them 70% of the profit tax, they didn't go complaining, he says, we won't. We only have 30%, leave Hungary, goodbye! No, the others are all in Hungary. No one's gone, they're working for 30% of the profits. But whatever comes to us from Europe, whoever tells us, we're in. Let's just say clearly and loudly that these same banks are in the hands of foreign mechanics and of us. From the Chinese mechanics, let's just say. And who benefits from that, folks, this 100 thousand-euro protected savings deposit, we point out as the main range of our system where private, savings stakes are thus guaranteed by the state to an amount of 100,000 euros and that is progress compared to those 50 that were during the former government, 50,000 euros was the limit for savings deposits. And not to mention other phenomena and phenomena in our bank-related society, starting with some taxi services and bosses, godfathers, brother-in-laws, etc. from setting up similar people and giving money and guarantees to the Croatian railways and also giving 20 limes of excise duty per litre of fuel we buy, etc. about that, so where 29 billion funds were lost in the Croatian railways for the past ten years, twenty. 29 billion kuna, none, where's the new railroad one? Where's the new track? What did the money go into? In the lukewarming turns or there retards towards the Solinas, there. The HDSSB club will be, although it is said by European or pro-European laws based on European directives, etc. In view of all the phenomena and phenomena that appear in our society, even though they are regulated in many laws and here they say in the fourth month they were the Law on Credit Institutions. This directive came last at 6 months, we're only discussing it at 12, I guess that's why we called an extraordinary session of the Parliament for credit institutions. I guess what I've been saying doesn't happen more than New Year's Eve, but I'm also bitter with bank behaviour and policy behaviour towards banks, political elites and everything they dig up and what they're doing in accordance with, and I'd say in secret agreements and secret conversations, or as it says here in the close connection of that political elite with the financial sector in credit institutions, we'll be banks because of that bitterness against or abstention, not for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63861	Thank you, too. Honorable representative Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63862	Dear counterpart Grubisic, you have now committed a great sin because the neoliberals are any regulation of the market especially of banking and the question of asking questions, doubting banks that is the making of a great sin? It's like a curse, it's choking freedom. You were wondering at the very beginning, in fact, the notion of the banking industry associated you with the factories, the chimneys, of course not the banks of a manufacturing institution but speculative institutions not to produce but to regulate those who will produce, the way they will produce how money will come. We Croats like to slave to cults, especially cults of personality, and now we slave to a cult of banks, a cult of money and an EU cult. What you were talking about, everything that comes from the EU, that's fantastic. Why ask at all if the EU, the European Commission, has said something, it needs to raise hands unanimously and we are doing it parrotically. We do not doubt, although it is not smart in Europe but unintelligent, stupid, not to doubt the decisions made in the EU. So there are very powerful European countries that oppose those decisions made either in the European Commission or in the European Parliament. However, when something comes from Europe, we say it is unanimous because Europe probably knows what it is doing. Well, he knows probably Europe what we do with banks. So we're here again on the same mission, and that's what we're raising now the EU cult.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63863	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63864	Dude, you just confirmed what I was saying. I have nothing to add except that I was personally present when we talk about this Europe, is, in the European Parliament, at a plenary session, at a debate, for example. about the fermentation or castration of pigs where it is discussed whether it will be protruded in general anaesthesia or not, because animal-protector lovers demand that it be protruded in general anaesthesia. You can think of a million pigs in Croatia who are slaughtering sharp dishes, how many general anaesthesias should be and how many colleges or clinics that would give a general anesthesia for all of Europe's hard-core reals about this debate, so what can I say?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63865	A new replica of respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63866	You have drawn a good parallel about it and if something comes from the EU and if it is not in the interest of Croatian citizens, Croatia's states will comply. But remember, a few months ago, the edge of which is the president of the Croatian government and the minister of justice, with which they have strictly defended Croatia as an independent, sovereign state that will consider every decision that will not be easily handed over to the EU dictatorship when it came to the protection of those whose protection they care about. And until the end, they insisted, they were ready for Croatia if it was necessary to distort sanctions and bring sanctions in defense of the indefensible. However, when it comes to the interests of economic capital, for example, when it comes to interests and how you said so. banking industries, then you can see how soft we are, how suitable we are for designing as clay, then there is no resistance anymore, then there is no need to defend Croatian national interests, then interest when laws are passed by the last deadline is actually adapted to the needs and the government gives way and makes concessions and makes steps back, then you do not recognize the need to protect the interests of Croatian citizens. Well, I guess the interests of Croatian citizens and Croatian national interests are. They cannot be just the interests of some invisible groups, those interests that the Croatian government will defend. And, of course, credit institutions and their interests are not the interests of Croatian citizens or Croatian society and that the Croatian state should not put its head in the interests of the so-called so-called so-called state in such a easy way. The banking industry and that's where I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63867	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63868	A fellow Djurovic, there is a portal local named SB+ portal, a Slavonic ship + portal that published a collection of statements two days ago by a random prime minister and a random state in which a paradoxic people live, so today I will hand it over to you to see what has been said in these two years while the random prime minister with a paradoxic people ruled in that country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63869	Dear Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63870	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, of course, you have not talked about this law, you have talked and held a position on the banking sector as if it were a sector other than all the regulations in which most of the tents, all sorts of things happen, politics has certain influences, and on the other hand you forget that Croatian citizens, the Croatian economy has an extremely high confidence in the banking system, which shows that the very savings that are growing in banks and the stability we have heard about and by the opposition that is extremely important and high-quality and commendable by the banking sector and on the other hand, only the economy without the banking sector is not able to develop because every normal democratic market economy with the banking sector is moving forward. You, of course, also referred to pre-fashion deals with one negative context and mentioned some companies, e.g. The Dalekovod, and you forget one fact that the owners of the Dalekovod who once were and brought into trouble are no longer those owners, as well as the managerial structure, that the banking sector has entered into ownership because it recognized both the opportunity and opportunity of Dalevod who, with their professional workers who have both the quality and the skills not only on the Croatian market but also on the foreign market, have the opportunity to improve the Croatian economy and it is not good to send such messages to companies that really have the opportunity and the opportunity and the agreed jobs outside, and it is clear that the economy in the recession can get into problems because there is also a Croatian state, there is this Parliament to make rules and laws in which way to help this country go forward, and without the economy could not do so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63871	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63872	My colleague Gjurkovic, I don't know, but I suspected that you were working in a bank somewhere or that you were employed in a bank. As for what you said, the economy, how banks help our economy. So we see at the end the consequences of helping you, as the Bosnians would say, don't help me again if you know God, right. We see that unemployment is growing, that gross social product is falling, that what that one says is falling, everything that shouldn't fall. So, the one you're talking about helping banks with the economy. Or maybe that economy, I don't know what it would be like if there weren't any of those banks. And the bank's profit if it only moves by 1% decreases annually, that's the country's scream. Banks lost 1%, you can imagine. But get, not income, get, that's an important difference and how much is it to get in these 20 years or since the banks are commercialized, they've moved into the hands of foreign owners, they're gone from Croatia. How many billion euros, not kuna, is that what you're telling me? Explain that to me. Furthermore, what is the amount of interest in Croatia in commercial banks, what is it in Germany or Austria, come on? When will that be with us? 2 percent interest, 1% interest. When is this gonna be such a good bank you're talking about? And in the end, when you talk about saving, that she is 200 billion kuna, as she now says. Please look at the structure of that savings. So, look at the depositholders and you'll see that 80% of the savings have 200 people, and 20% all the others. So, the savings structure, look who owns the savings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63873	Dear Representative Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63874	My colleague Grubisic, I was a little mildly smiled by your debate, but also surprised by how pleasantly you essentially hit the problem even though you are a surgeon. And actually this is proof that you don't need to be a good cook to know whether the soup is salty or not. And you've guessed what bothers most of the Croatian people. How well you've figured out those proud names that don't mean anything, the banking industry. And imagine when they offer new products, every day I hear it, we offer new products. But in this law I seem to be missing only one provision so that we can definitely finish the story of the banking system that should be said is forbidden to the Croatian state to own a bank in its possession. Because since the government's decision to sell the HPB, that's when it had to be legal. And the reward board that sells the Post Office is receiving millions of bonuses these days. By ordering workers, all employees whose Christmas Day card has been paid in the amount of thousands of kunas, to return that Christmas card. And hundreds of millions of kunas are paid for bonuses to the people most responsible for the damage caused by the banking system on the case of Slavonska Banka, Rijeka Banka, Dalmatia Banka, Dubrovnik Banka and that... is the damage several times greater than the total damage that is done in the entire judicial system of the Republic of Croatia. And those who have written off their debts to those who have not paid the dues are now rewarded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63875	Thank you, too. Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63876	Thank you, colleague Maric, for your commendation to the surgeon. I would say that when I was a war surgeon in Slavonski Brod, then the American delegation was a surgical student with us of war surgery because they didn't have war at the moment, so they came to us in '94, '95, then they left us a plate with their coat of arms, and below it was written in Croatian "Sometimes cut off means to cure". I would apply that provision to these three closely related factors, which are the financial sector, the political elite, and you've added justice to that, and then everything in the circle is nicely connected, and then we have what we have. Are we gonna cut it surgically? Maybe it'd be best.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63877	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues, I can't say what I've heard about banks lately. They say banks will have to pass a stressful test, so I naively thought they'd be solidarity with citizens and the economy. Okay, I'm saying that naive. I apologize for the abuse of the Rules of Procedure. We're continuing the debate. Srdjan Gjurkovic is a respected representative of the HNS club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63878	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So when we talk about today's Bill on Credit Institutions, then we're talking about 35 credit institutions, 29 banks, 1 savings bank, 5 residential savings banks over 280 billion deposits, 60% of them citizens, 21.26% capital ratio, the growth of assets that are currently over 400 billion kuna and the growth of savings of around 7%. So the fact itself, not perhaps in the number of banks, but the fact of the value of the assets of the deposits, called it or not to the banking industry, the banking sector, the financial sector, and whatever you want, is something extremely important in the Republic of Croatia and is extremely important for the economy and for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and its stability is also crucial for the stability of the Croatian state. And I believe that none of us can escape. That is why this proposal for a law of compliance with EU regulations and directives further strengthens the security and stability of the financial sector and gives new tasks to the CNB, gives new tasks to both the Government and this Croatian Parliament in the regulation. The law itself, which defines and regulates something very tight and new, which is when we talk about defining joint action, means people acting together, who want to be bank shareholders, is clearly said here that they are those who cooperate with each other or with credit institutions on the basis of an agreement of explicit or tacit, oral or written, whose aim is to acquire shares with the right to vote and to comply with the right of vote or legal persons that are interrelated in terms of... The law on companies and also articles related to lending and related persons make it clear that this law is much more restrictive this law leads to exceptional control of what and how the funds of deposits or special means of citizens are used. This is a law that defines and wants to create frameworks, and the CNB has to add to its sublaws applicable to risk regulation in order to avoid the resolution of banks from the budget to destabilise the entire financial system and ensure the citizens' stability of their deposits. Also, this law is extremely good at creating frameworks to ensure that placements are as high-quality as possible, so that the placements are as good as possible, less risky as possible to ensure a stable banking system primarily and growth in the economy and security of savings. Of course, we can talk a lot about this law because it has a lot of articles, because it has to have a lot of articles, but what is crucial and what the HNS club supports, not because it is just compliance with the regulations and directives of the European Union, but because it ensures stability and strengthening of the financial system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63879	Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63880	Dear fellow Gjurkovic, as you have already heard this morning, spoke about the importance and stability of the banking sector. You said, among other things, the banking sector guarantees the stability of the Croatian state, but there is a huge lack of stability between the state and the stability of banks. Croatia looms in debt, in dubiosis, in non- hadh, the Croatian citizens, most of what you say about increasing 7% of savings is just proof of decomposition in Croatia. So Croatia is cramping because Croatian citizens who have less and less, and you say it is thanks to the stability of the Croatian state thanks to the stability of Croatian banks. Something's wrong with me. Certainly, there is no relationship between the stability of banks and the stability of the state. The more stable banks are in Croatia, the more unstable the state is. You said here that honey and milk flow in Croatia and that in Croatia, GDP is on the rise, as if citizens are living better and as if tomorrow's citizens are so good that they just rush into banks, they put money on them because their salaries leave too much money. That's what someone would do if they heard the argument on the side. No, in Croatia it is very bad, extremely bad to live, citizens are facing bankruptcy and this 7% increase in savings is certainly just one optical trick.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63881	Replica response, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63882	Dear colleague, 7% of the savings growth, out of which 3% of the citizens are not optical fraud but are facts and statistics. I mean they don't cheat as much as we do statistics sometimes use them in one way or another. It's official data. The stability of the Croatian state in relation to the stability of banks, so give a few years back so you see what happened when the destabilization of banks occurred, starting from the United States to Europe where Croatian citizens from the budget had to resuscitate and cover extremely large amounts in banks, the countries had to enter the co-ownership of banks to stabilise the economy and not to destabilize the state. We in Croatia have had and we have a recession from which we are obviously coming out, but it was caused by precisely this destabilization caused by banks in the European and world markets and which have also caused recession in other countries where we are bound, in particular by the export of our economy, and in part by the reduction of tourism, due to the reduction of citizens' standards in the European Union. Therefore, the stability of the banking sector that was in Croatia has ensured that at this point we have both the opportunity and the opportunity and the possibility with all the measures that we have taken to get out of the crisis and recession, and destabilization of the banking sector has led you to a crisis all over the world since 2008.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63883	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Mladen Novak and the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63884	Your Honor, Your Honor. Well, I'm going to start with something else, first with my fellow Gjurkovic and you president on understanding of this earlier, given that we have replaced the order, and I'm going to start with, is that this is a alignment with the regulations of the European Union, but I'm going to start with one commendation, in the sense that we've received a whole text of the law that certainly allows for easier and more quality work for those who work under these regulations, by those laws than when we have a situation where there are some amendments and additions, and then there are all kinds of situations. Croatian Labourers have already expressed their views on the banking sector in general on several occasions on several occasions from this pay phone, and I will not now continue on this sector that was just around industry and not industry, or new products that are being offered on their part. What I noticed when I was preparing for this debate are some additional shields that my colleague Grubisic would say, which is the introduction of protective layers to preserve capital. And now says the purpose of the protective layer is to strengthen capital at the time of expansion so that the loss of the recession period can be covered, i.e. in good time, provide spare funds for bad days in the banking system. Now, if we're reading this literally, then it turns out that this law is running late for a minimum of 5-6 years, or more because in a time of good time, so before the recession, you had to practically pass this law. But knowing the situation in Croatia, no matter what the recession is since 2008, I don't see what was wrong with that sector, that banking sector, so it turns out that it's still in ours, when we look at us separately if it's more possible, it turns out that this law comes at a time when banks are still going very well and I don't mind that they're doing well. But I'm going to look back on what some predecessors said and they're so good at sharing bonuses and sharing huge bonuses. Here's my colleague Maric mentioned it earlier. That's what I meant to mention in my debate. Share bonuses even when the situation is such that some, that should be the other way around. My colleague Grubisic even mentioned Remetinec. I agree, I need to see if there are any elements for Remetinec as well. The whole state is in crisis, the economy is in crisis, the public sector is in crisis, citizens, the village. It's all about the crisis, the health sector. But what one of my predecessors would say, but in this industry flowers bloom, there are bonuses shared, there is general pleasure. I'll remind you of a debate not so long ago in this House when we talked about this same problem and then I'm suggested to study the problem a little bit better, because in fact it's the only normal way, so the whole world works that in this segment, in the banking industry, it's normal for people to get well, rich, fat rewards for their successes. I once mentioned here that any privatisation of the public sector, or part that is in the function of citizens, is a signal to me that there is corruption of the political elite. As a rule and legislation that allowed the banking sector to... to reach this position, not only in Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I am not just talking about Croatia, I have doubts, and in the end, cases prove it is a common practice that the banking sector amongst others is very often used by this method and very successful. Is this law going to succeed in its intention, because among other things, the reason is that the burden of resuscitating banks from now on will fall first on the owner and the believer, and only as the last solution to taxpayers. I'd be happy to, but as in most cases, it's not always the laws in question, but rather often their application and implementation. There's one confession I'm not an economist, I don't deal with it, but there's one clue when I, when I've read this text in which I state this detail that I'm really little, at least I'm going to say strange and it's said, "If there's a possibility that it will use its influence against the good and discreet management of a credit institution." Now I'm going to mention the visible Milan or the glass ball. Based on which one can be likely to act against good and discreet management. If that's something that's common, the usual termology in that sector, come on well, then I'll accept that it can be that way. But I must admit that the wording itself in my opinion is very, very dubious. When I read this text, I must admit that I was really pleasantly surprised, that someone paid attention and protected the so-called. The whistle. However, it only says in the opening part. If I am not mistaken about the protection of whistles speak Articles 157 and 158, they speak in two paragraphs, Article 157 in two paragraphs and Article 158 not to say in half words and praise a valuable attempt to protect whistles but I am afraid that, however, it is not possible to resolve the whole issue by law. But I think that, realistically speaking, there might be something more to be done about it, and I'll be so free to remind you of the most famous whistle in this segment, Mrs. Ankica Lepoy, and remind you of how the whistles go, that is, how she went. I believe you all know that and there's no point going on with it now. A representative of the HNS club mentioned here in a replica, although the reply to the replica is the inevitable fact that 7% increase in savings is citizens. I'll be so free as to be a layman, but a layman who reads something and from those who are experts in that branch, so I'll tell you that there are a lot of economists who challenge even GDP, not GDP in the amount, but just a formulation, so that they claim it's your charm, that this total income is divided into all of us, and then we have a situation where some people make very, very good incomes, some of us don't have bread, and on average we save 7%. So if someone has monthly incomes of 100 or slightly more thousands of kunas and these 36,000 on the stock market, they all make that average of 7% together. I'm not going to add that there is, that it's not just a question of the 300,000 on the stock market, that there are more citizens who can barely make ends meet, that there are those who don't get paid, so I'm not sure that there's something special praise worth mentioning. Yeah, it's good to grow only if it's something we need to admire those 7%? We'd be happier, I'd be more happy if that 7% were not just an average but a citizen's individual. Then it would have some whole other weight, some whole other value. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63885	Thank you, Your Honor. We're going to do the replicas now. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63886	Dear counterpart Novak, of course, when we talk about banks that we can't remember the debate that was there, how many poor citizens were in the Republic of Croatia. And that's why 7% more savings, and we have every third Croatian citizen is poor and not according to our standards, and they clearly told us and drew us how many poor they are. We are among the poorest EU countries, at the very top. And we have the most stable banks. Who wants to brainwash us? And for what? We in the Parliament here, for what? Because it is our duty here to protect the banks, the banking sector, the godforsaken elite or to protect the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So let the citizens of the Republic of Croatia open their eyes and see who they choose here in Parliament. Citizens are getting worse, banks are getting better and politicians are doing great. Is that the purpose of this House? I'm sure it's not the purpose of the Parliament. The banks were the most profitable in the crisis, even in the US where the US citizens paid taxes, and they told me not to speak taxpayers but to pay taxes, those who pay taxes warned me because some don't pay taxes, the richer they pay taxes, they get the biggest bonuses in banks. They got bonuses for failures, greed, irrevocability, and the banking sector profited. Whose back did he profit from? Why do we worship this God? The money began to bow to the banks as well. Instead of speaking critically here about institutions that aim to borrow, nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63887	Replicate response, distinguished representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63888	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Vuksic, I am in favour of protecting every sector, including the banking sector, but within what is realistic, which is normal in accordance with all other circumstances in the Republic of Croatia. Now, I'm not going to tell you a little bit, I'm not going to put the wind in my back, because I'd like to associate with something else, but you've encouraged me to have a debate that I don't know now that one of the predecessors mentioned about H.P.B. and sales. So I must admit that my personal thinking is that I am glad that this sale did not take place, but since the Republic of Croatia still owns Croatian highways and Croatian railways and HEP and Croatian forests and I think there is an opportunity to transfer all these, financial operations of all their institutions, their companies, to operate precisely through HPB and I think it would certainly strengthen its position. When you mention it, I think at one point you mentioned bonuses and profits, it's okay for someone to make a profit, make a profit, eventually exist. But if the problem is to place money on the Croatian market because it is below their expectations of interest, it is below their expectations to earn, is it not logical to expect that in a good spirit, in good faith we should go with a lower offer?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63889	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63890	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63891	Goran Maric is a respected representative, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63892	Thank you very much. Comrade Novak, you were talking about the stability of the banking system and the bonuses. I must stress that the banking system is indeed stable and that is good luck for the Croatian economy and for Croatia in general. But how is it possible that he's stable and he's got 40 billion kunas of uncharging credit? That doesn't suit each other. Well, it's possible because they don't keep a stable banking system bankers and bank administrations, but minuses on current citizens' accounts where 56 billion kuna is calculated minus 12% of the tight interest, thus covering all the incompetence of the bank's management that even 40 billion kunas have placed non-refundable. But they still get bonuses. Today paying off the bonus is obscenity, it's mocking when people don't have to direct. And those who keep stability, those who are in the minus, they are in the downs to survive, on them they pay themselves millions of bonuses. At the same time, there is no payout for workers and for the work done. And when they happen to get a Christmas card, I just said, it's been ordered to give back 1,000 kuna Christmas cards to all the workers, and members of the HPB's administration get big million bonuses. If the HPB is doing so well, then it must not be sold in any way. And if it works so badly, how can it be bonuses to the board members and then why return Christmases to people for payment when Christmases will be spent in Croatia and bonuses exclusively by islands abroad? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63893	Thank you, too. A new replica, not a reply to the replica, respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63894	Thank you very much. Well, colleague Maric, frankly, it's hard not to agree with you. You basically said everything that I said with the fact that you still supported it. That's what I'm talking about, stability, stability of the banking system and banks. But when we talk about bonuses. Not so long ago, there was a debate here when, frankly, quite aggressively, it appeared from individual MPs that we don't understand what we're talking about, that we're the minors of those illiterate people. We don't understand that it's normal today, that it should be, that these people deserve it, and all of what you've listed here and around Post Office Bank, if they're doing a good job, then why are we selling them, if they're not doing a good job, then why bonuses? These are irrelevant arguments when these people talk. Then it just sells some mantra, it belongs to the bankers. It's theirs, it's their maltenes by God's day. It's a sin to talk about it, even mentioned it. But you mentioned another detail about the contract, you mentioned it, but it associated me with something else. When there is, when someone's taking out a loan, they sign a loan agreement with a loan bank. The contract is a two-sided act and is signed by the bank on the one hand by the credit user and should not both sides be taken over and part of the risk. In Croatia, this figure that you mentioned earlier is all about the risks taken by citizens, the risk of bankers does not exist in that story. It is an exclusive risk that they have even taken and overloaded on the citizens. And in my opinion, it's really embarrassing that we let that happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63895	Next replica, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63896	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I am therefore pleased that you have seen in this law two facts pointed out and that is to kill the responsibility goes primarily to shareholders and creditors in risks and possibly cover or resuscitate banks. And another related to the protection of whistles in this law that I believe absolutely should have the support of all MPs because it is indeed a law that is not only prescribed by the EU but really brings and contributes to a new standard and especially at the moment when we are keeping an eye on, we take special care of consumer protection through this segment and the protection of whistles that are in this package. I have to tell you the truth about when I was talking about deposits to grow 7%, I said 7% were growing this year deposits in banks, of which three percent of citizens and not 7% of citizens, and your alimony with statistics and mathematics of gross social product I think is inadequate at this time and time because then it brings to an unknown every number of statistics that is expressed. So, the methodology agreed within the EU or EUROSTAT for calculating gross products, as well as calculations and other statistical data that our statistical office and other EU statistics institutions have agreed on, is precisely known in which way and what goes into the calculation of GDP as a calculation of all other segments of statistics that are needed by one society primarily for the sake of analysis, situation, comparisons and what is key to development and planning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63897	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63898	Thank you very much. My colleague, you mentioned in that opening act and about that shield that my colleague Grubisic would say about both the protection and the whistle-whispering, he listed it as a positive part of this law and I absolutely mean it. Although I think it could have been a little more quality or better to protect those whistles, but this is already a major shift. About seven percent or three percent of what you're saying right now. I apologize if I misunderstood you and we're in a package about it and you and I mentioned both GDP and you're commenting on my thinking. Now I'm gonna fix you up, and I'm gonna remind you that I didn't say it was my thinking, but by some top economists, I said I read it. And among other things, some of these top economists are also Nobel Prize winners for economics. So now you're not polymizing with me and my opinion, but with the opinion of a Nobel laureate in economic science. And I'm not saying a man is right, but I suppose he knows about it no more than me and you do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63899	Stephen Milinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63900	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleague Novak, here's today's debate on financial law, and in that part we heard less or more of the terms used, so one is the banking industry, so I heard even part of the medical termology where we say diagnosis, well-diagnosed diagnosis, the foundation of quality therapy. And I want to say the same thing that should have been said then and prevention because prevention is immeasurable and it is certainly a fundamental prerequisite not to have a serious disease. But I'm stuck with your term of crisis where there's a crisis, a crisis in this area, that one, and you said the crisis in the country. It is true that it is and not that it is, the crisis is unremembered, immeasurable and insurmountable in the country. And now watch what's going on. Now in this crisis, everything not to repeat what I've said countless times here, how it's manifested, and now it's said these days we'll see that crisis we'll solve in the dairy industry that 40,000 new heifers will simply introduce and solve the problem. Of course it'll cost, I'm sure it'll have to be credited again, this one of my own will have to be a farmer, a cattleman, he'll have to get into a credit relationship, and when this one gets blocked, 2,000 kuna means blockage, no more saving him, so he's going further into more trouble. Then it is said, it will solve EU funds, the one for rural development look wonders and there has been a problem. These programs weren't accepted, and you know why? Because it's not a good diagnosis, it's not a good diagnosis, and now it says it needs a little fix, right? I wish I could fix it so little by little, so my God, how would that end? I'm afraid the disease has gone too far here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63901	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63902	It is fortunate that in the House we have, a respected colleague, we are fortunate to have quite a number of doctors in the House, so that we can be well educated and reminded of that termology. You said it was a bad diagnosis in the end. Now I will remind you of your beginning of the debate, and there is no prevention. There was no prevention, you were talking about a crisis in the country. I know that here sometimes makes a mockery when any of us are reorienting to our own, you probably for the village, me probably for the railroad, and you'd find each of us for something. But I don't think it's ever enough to repeat, it's not too much to repeat some things to point to. And let's just say one of the things to point out is that next year it's been declared a year of small agricultural CAPs, that family agricultural economies. And it is this fact that makes it known, that Europe declares it so, that the fact that we've been going in the wrong direction all this time. It is Europe, though, those great mastodons we went all round up to not know what proportions of American style, it is not to say becoming fashionable, let's do everything as they do even though they themselves were aware that it was bad and missed. I believe that I hope that this change in the European Commission and the announcement of the next year of the small OPG will still be the wind in one of the shifts in relation to the village and agriculture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63903	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the bill. We'll vote something later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63904	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] Thank you very much. We could bring in more important than we have on the agenda. Thank you very much. Let's get this straight. So, we did the Final Proposal of the Credit Institutions Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 572. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour and 24 abstentions have been passed by the Credit Institutions Act, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63905	We'll discuss final 2. Proposal for a Council on Financial Stability Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No.575; Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, the emergency procedure unites the first and second readings, the amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, you received reports at the session. Introducing the bill will be explained by Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lavovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63906	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Very short, you are facing the draft Financial Stability Council Act where this law establishes a Financial Stability Council that regulates and formulates, means implementing macro-prudential policy in the Republic of Croatia according to recommendations from the European Committee on Systemic Risks where the Council will have 10 members, 4 representatives of the CNB, 2 representatives of the HANFA, 2 representatives of the Ministry of Finance, 2 representatives of the DAB where the representatives of the CNB and the HANFA have one vote each while representatives of the Ministry of Finance and DAB have these two votes, a total of eight votes, where the vote of the governors prevails. This council will establish a macroprudential policy of the Republic of Croatia, identify systemic risks and what is important to ensure cooperation and exchange of information between competent authorities. The cost of the work of the Council shall be borne by the CNB, the Council shall be independent and independent and shall be authorised to cooperate and exchange information with other competent financial stability bodies, in particular with that of the European Systemic Risks Committee and the European Central Bank where it covers a much wider context. So not just banking, non-banking, and this part of savings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63907	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63908	Dear Vice President, Deputy Deputy Minister with a colleague, respected fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Therefore, the Fiscal Stability Council Act is adopted in a package with the Credit Institutions Act and the Capital Market Act. All three of these laws are in line with EU directives and ensure that we have one effective control of the entire financial system of Croatia since 01 January of the following year. In fact, the financial crisis that escalated in the EU in 2008 and which has indeed shaken the whole world has made sense of the need to ensure more effective supervision of the financial system in order to prevent possible new disorders in the system, in view of their extremely negative consequences, not only for the financial sector but above all for the real sector, therefore for the economy. In this respect, the European Parliament and the EU Council adopted Regulation No 1099/2010 in 2010. on macroprudential supervision of the financial system and the establishment of a European Systemic Risk Board. The Regulation lays down the framework of the so-called framework. macroprudential policies. And now the question is, what is a macroprudential policy anyway? This is therefore a set of measures and activities aimed at protecting against systemic risks and strengthening the resilience of the financial system to financial shocks. In one word, to ensure the financial stability of the financial system as a whole. The same regulation establishes the obligation for all EU Member States to establish their national authorities which will be responsible for this macro-prudential supervision of the financial system. By coordinating the work of those national authorities by adopting appropriate recommendations and by issuing appropriate warnings. One such recommendation issued by the European Systemic Risk Board at the end of 2011 was a recommendation on a macroprudential regulatory framework which requires Member States to prescribe a clear framework for the implementation of macro-prudential policy in their countries, including giving appropriate powers to institutions designated to safeguard financial stability. On this recommendation, the European Systemic Risks Committee also issued a recommendation at the beginning of 2013 on sub-divisional objectives and instruments of macro-prudential policy. When it comes to the Croatian financial system that we know is stable primarily because it is highly capitalised, macro-prudential supervision or supervisory supervision is performed by two regulators, CNB and HANFA, each in their segment of the financial system. This is how the CNB oversees the business of credit institutions, credit unions, payment institutions, electronic money institutions and payment systems. And HANFA is responsible for the supervision of the financial market of investment firms, investment and other funds, pension insurance companies, insurance and reinsurance companies and other legal persons engaged in providing financial services and consulting on the financial market. It is clear that until this moment in Croatia we did not have a single national body whose basic task would be to create macroprudential policy and safeguard the stability of this entire financial system. And that is why this legislative proposal establishes the Financial Stability Council. This operationalises the recommendations of the European Systemic Risks Committee, and as I have already said, together with the Credit Institutions Act and the Capital Market Act, there are assumptions that since 1 January 2014 there has been effective supervision of the entire financial system in Croatia. And now just a few more information on the composition and way of working of the Financial Stability Council. So the council is composed of 10 members, 4 are representatives of the CNB, 2 are representatives of the HANFA, 2 representatives of the Ministry of Finance and 2 representatives of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, so DAB. However, the crucial impact on decision-making has been given to the CNB. Being that each of its 4 representatives has the right to decide and that is a total of 4 votes, so half of the total number of possible votes. The representatives of the HANFA also have each vote and these are two votes further, two representatives of the Ministry of Finance, and two DAB representatives have only one vote each. So 10 council members have a total of 8 votes. In the case of an equal number of votes, the vote of the governor of the CNB is the deciding vote. Council members shall be appointed for a year. The Board of Presidents and its work shall be chaired by the Governor of the CNB, in so far as it is prevented from being changed by a member of the board of directors, of course by the CNB but designated by the Governor himself. In the performance of its tasks, the Council is fully independent and independent of the influence of other financial institutions, as well as of the influence of political bodies. The Council may engage external experts in certain areas in its work. The Council shall issue notices, decisions, warnings and recommendations. Council meetings are closed to the public but the Council has an obligation to regularly inform the public of decisions taken regarding the implementation of macro-prudential policy. When it comes to the publication of certain warnings or recommendations to the Council, it must first inform those persons to whom these warnings or recommendations are addressed. The Council shall cooperate and exchange information with other national authorities in charge of financial stability, in particular with the European Systemic Risks Committee and the European Central Bank. Once a year, the Council is obliged to publish a report on its work, with the obligation to deliver this report to the Croatian Assembly through the Parliamentary Committee on Finance and the State Budget. Where appropriate, the Council shall report to both the EU authorities and the European Systemic Risk Board. So as I have already said, the law is in force from 1 January 2014, and the Financial Stability Council must be appointed within 30 days of that date, so from the entry into force of the law. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63909	Thank you. Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63910	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. On several occasions, you mentioned financial stability, its importance as to how important it was, and the Deputy Minister spoke about it, and at the end and at the previous point of the agenda, there were words about it. What is so important is I think it would be okay for that report by that body that monitors financial stability to discuss and the Croatian Parliament, that this report be given to the Croatian Parliament. Not the Finance Committee, but the Croatian Parliament to discuss it at the plenary session on the report. We are witnessing that the governor of the CNB did not even show up at the Board of Elections and Appoints when he was appointed to that position he did not find fit because it was his message to this Parliament that he was experiencing and what he thought of the MPs in the Parliament. It was important to him that he was elected there somewhere and as such only confirmed. So I don't think he would show up here to defend something like this, but I think someone on behalf of this council should do this report because it's overwhelming, it's too important and you've emphasized it on several occasions that this House shouldn't be discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63911	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63912	Comrade Novak, yes, the Croatian banking system as part of the entire financial system is stable and it is actually good. Therefore, other countries that do not have such stable financial systems have additional major problems. As for the arrival of governors and the submission of this report to the Council of Finance, and through the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, then to the Croatian Parliament, I think it will work well. Whether the governor will come or any of the vice governors will come, anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63913	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63914	Dear fellow Jelash, when you spoke about the Financial Stability Council, you said that the Council is independent of all other financial institutions. One of the guarantees of that independence should be the governor of the CNB whose vote is crucial. Well, you see, the CNB worked all the time and works all the time for the benefit of banks, in favour of the financial sector, not for the benefit of Croatian or Croatian citizens. So I don't believe in this independence, simply taught by all the experiences and work of the CNB that didn't protect citizens' interests, but exactly the financial sector. And now you've said that other countries that don't have a stable financial system have very big problems. We seem to live in different countries, so we are Greece, Portugal, we Spain, we have the biggest problems, so I don't think I know where we live. I guess I live in another country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63915	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63916	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear deputy with associate, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. I must first say that the procedure for the adoption of this law is totally unacceptable, that in the extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament one law is passed, that we cannot possibly support it in such a way. And we have heard here ourselves that the last directive was in 2011 to comply with the European Union Directive. What does this law get, what does it change? He says that this law, in its explanation, will include giving appropriate powers to an institution that will receive a mandate to safeguard financial stability. Who has kept financial stability so far? Who was supposed to maintain financial stability? Who has the authority to safeguard financial stability? The same ones who will get it by this law. The CNB has so far had the highest power to maintain financial stability, but what we need to clarify is that financial stability and macroeconomic stability are also mentioned here. There is a huge difference between financial stability and macroeconomic stability. We can have financial stability, but it does not necessarily mean that we have macroeconomic stability, that financial stability can be as apparent as in Croatia. The truth is that the financial sector, the banking sector is absolutely stable and that's good. But the price we pay for financial stability is too high. And who's paying for it? The salary is 300,000 unemployed, paid by the economy, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, craftsmen who have lost their jobs, who are almost at stake. Financial stability is also paid by citizens, mostly with current account minuses because I said just now, it is possible that a stable financial system is in which we have 13 billion kunas reserved for non-refundable or partially chargeable claims by credit institutions. Only because they covered all these non-payments with an increase in interest rates on already granted loans to business entities that are liquid and to citizens who have 56 billion kuna minus on current accounts which they cannot influence and pay a very high interest rate on this. What macroeconomic stability are we talking about? How it can be macroeconomic, and full of mouths are macroeconomic stability. Is macroeconomic stability a continuous minus, a negative balance of external trade? Is the macroeconomic stability of 300,000 unemployed with the trend of constant growth? Is macroeconomic stability a terrible increase in public debt that has passed over 200 billion kuna? Is macroeconomic stability a terrible increase in the deficit of the state budget to the unremembered 17 billion kuna? Sixty percent higher in just one year since the previous year. It goes past us as if we're absolute champions of macroeconomic stability, and we're actually preceding macroeconomic instability. Does this bill also have technical deficiencies? In the context of the macroeconomic policy objectives referred to in paragraph 2 of subparagraph 1 it is said that the objective of forming such a council and the objectives of macro-prudential policy is to reduce and prevent excessive credit growth and the application of the financial leverage. I mean, the goal is to reduce credit growth, but it's not meant to cut public debt. It means even more incapacitating the Croatian economy. It would be best to prohibit the lending of the Croatian economy. And the application of fiscal policy cannot be, nor should it be, the objective of the fiscal leverage. The financial leverage is a means, and it's not a goal, but we are artists in turning goals into means and resources into goals. We've turned all resources into targets. The financial leverage is a means to achieve certain objectives, not the ultimate objective. In accordance with paragraph 6, other objectives shall be set out as well. And what other goals are these? Why not list every goal to be achieved? Article 9 states that the Council consists of 10 members, 4 representatives of the Croatian National Bank, the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks, HANFA and the Ministry of Finance and determines that who are members, that in the Council is the director of the Agency and the person designated by it, and another representative appointed by the Director of the Agency. So the director of the agency determines both the person and the person who changes him and who goes along with him. That's an alibi for not having an agency director in meetings in advance. So the finance minister also appoints, he is a member of the council and appoints a person who will come for him but also appoints a person who will come for him. It's also an alibi for not attending meetings. And for one year, the Council shall be appointed to those who are in a position until the end of the term of office. Well, they're all in position, except maybe the one the minister still appoints instead of himself. But if the minister is no longer in position, then he won't be able to name it, so the new minister will be able to appoint again. Therefore, there is no reason for such restrictions, as it is impossible for the new minister to appoint the one previously appointed by the minister to whom the mandate expired. This is also about the deadlines for meeting the council twice a year. I don't know, Mr. Deputy Minister, since the President of the Council who provides for the essence of how much time he spends on the plane is more in the air than on the ground. I am not sure that this council will succeed in meeting with the needs of the Republic of Croatia. And even when traveling along with you needlessly across America as some days consisting of several members also unnecessary then you return to the economic class I hear immediately the next day and these four from the National Bank in business class continue their tourist trip to America. I congratulate you because you behave responsibly, but I am obliged to mention how those who will be responsible for the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia will not be held accountable but have no responsibility at all. It's not clear who has the right to vote here. Does the Minister of Finance have the right to vote? You can't see from this, you can have, but you don't have to. He can come to a council meeting and not have the right to vote because he can have the right to vote, the one he took with him, the other. Because it is not defined that the finance minister has the right to vote, but has the right to vote by a representative of the finance ministry. One, one of them's got one. Which one? You don't know. It's a pretty unserious approach for a pretty serious project. In the same article, it says that the data are secret and are not available to third parties and this is a persistent neglect of the role of the Croatian Parliament. If the Council is required to publish a report on its work annually, then why will it be forwarded to the Croatian Assembly if it is publicly published. It can only be submitted to the Croatian Parliament, and that is a big difference. It should not be forwarded to the Croatian Assembly, but it should be submitted to the Croatian Assembly and that is a big difference, and I would therefore ask you to appreciate that report to the Croatian Parliament. The Council may adopt a Rules of Procedure on its work. What kind of definition is that? Well, it doesn't say he can't bring it anywhere in the law. Either it's a duty to bring the Rules of Procedure or it's not a duty. The law must be perfectly clear. It can bring, okay. It can stand so that it can meet every day or bring something else. This is a handicapped article. I think it should be removed, or amended, and that it is obliged to adopt the Rules of Procedure on its work, that it must be brought. This council has great powers but I don't see any responsibility. Even today, no one has taken responsibility for the state of Croatia. Who's responsible for 300,000 unemployed? Did anyone say he was co-responsible? No, the minister says it's not final and in February we'll only experience it and we know it, but the minister is for us not to experience it. It will be that and 380 unfortunately thousands but the minister has to say no, it can't be that much, it'll be less. This was promised in election time, even 50,000 new jobs and we just turned into a count and every day is the most important thing for the unemployed today. And the number of unemployed is a big trick. There are a lot more unemployed in Croatia than the official 3600,000 statistics show, because only by taking an example from the second pension column where there are a million and 650 thousand members and regularly paying only 985,000, means that there are another 600,000 people working irregularly in Croatia. And the messy payer in the second pension column is the one who has been not paying more than 3 months in a row. This means that more than 600,000 people who have such a working relationship, occasional working relationships that are unable to pay, or that more than 3 months in a row do not pay into another pension column. So it's this latent unemployment that you also need to take care of. Has anyone taken responsibility for that? It's not. Has anyone taken responsibility for the huge growth of imports? It's not. Has anyone taken responsibility and who is responsible for the decline in industrial production, for the decline in consumption, for the fall terrible in the textile industry, in the processing industry? For the decline of the agricultural sector in total GDP? In Croatia, everyone is responsible for not being worse, and no one is responsible for this situation, and it is extremely bad in economic terms and in economic terms in general. Due to all the above, the HDZ club will be abstentions on the issue of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63917	Replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63918	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You spoke of financial and macroeconomic stability. So you can imagine how a session of the council would run today, so the governor of the CNB says that the economic downturn in the Republic of Croatia will be 0.8% and the minister, in light of the reasons for budget rebalancing 10 days ago, says Croatia will have an economic growth of 0.2% this year. And now probably the meeting, given that it is financial stability and that the difference of 1%-no point certainly brings 2.3 billion kunas less revenue to the state budget and increases the need for borrowing then the logical thing to do in order for the financial stability of the Republic of Croatia to end and one of the reasons why we are going to set up this Financial Council is that it would be that the governor of the CNB asks the Minister so good ministers how do you intend to finance that difference? From what means? Will you take the funds that we fire as a mandatory reserve for business banks intended to finance companies or from which funds you will finance? Don't you, with real glare over the level of economic downturn or growth, undermine the financial stability of the state and in a certain way bring into question the work of this Financial Council, so the Financial Stability Council? Fellow Maric, today this conversation would probably have been so, and probably not another year will be different because in projections, this government is gawking at facts, and the governor has finally decided to look without pink glasses the situation in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63919	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63920	Well, I'm sure that's what a fellow Shucker would look like or there'd be no conversation at all. Because this law also stipulates that the finance minister did not give himself the right to vote in the council. And how it's going to work when you've seen well the governor says it's going to fall 0.8% this year, and the finance minister in his budget rebalance predicts a growth of 0.2% of that same budget. How is it possible for the finance minister to be in charge without the governor being exposed at all? He travels to other cities, not where he just spoke to America, he doesn't care and he's not burdened by what conditions the Republic of Croatia will be in debt. So just look at the example of Russia and Ukraine where Russia yesterday approved from its reserves $15 billion loan to Ukraine, and the CNB reduction in reserve rates in the same way could finance through business banks with 2% of RS. No, but it lowers the minimum reserve rate, fires 15 billion kunas so that banks with what they had 0.25% of the contributions manage as they wish, instead of increasing the reserve rate and returning because it has not been used for the economy as it has never been used before, and that arrangements under which terms these banks will credit the RH or will not reduce the reserve rate. If Dostoevsky were alive today with what he knew was in the CNB and what was happening he would write a new novel, but which would not be called Crime and Penalty but Crime and Reward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63921	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63922	Thank you. Well, here's counterpart Maric is really amazing, and here I agree with you, that after 5 years of recession where Croatia is, the government, the only thing that didn't come into question in that recession is financial stability, or financial sector stability. Jobs, exports, production, the standard of citizens came into question. The only thing that came into question is that it protects and defends the stability of the financial system, i.e. the banking industry. And what do we need? So we need a council for economic growth if they want something? After five years of recession and not another institution, the goal of which is practically a para-state institution or institutions, a goal which will only be a concern for the financial sector and so on. The financial industry, if they didn't give God, after five years of recession, would not have felt at least a little touch or encounter with this recession that Croatian citizens have been experiencing for five years. It is a sad fact that today we have an extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament where a theme like this has ever appeared in the Croatian Parliament. It just talks about where Croatian society is today, and how much power is actually covered by the power of this sector that gives us these documents. And it puts us in a situation where instead of taking care of Croatian citizens, we bring new acts and create para-state institutions that will further protect one sector of the so-called sector. How they like these fellow Labourists to say big capital. Isn't that a big capital issue? It's a question of something that's really sad that today is actually on the agenda of this so-called. Extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63923	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63924	Col. Djurovic, financial stability is necessary and I absolutely support any measure aimed at financial stability, but the problem in Croatia is that this financial stability and the way in which financial stability is provided and maintained directly leads to macroeconomic instability. Financial stability produces macroeconomic instability. Financial stability has led us to 300,000 unemployed, financial stability increases public debt every day, financial stability increases the deficit of the state budget every day. We pay that financial stability dearly. It cannot produce financial stability leading to macroeconomic instability and is brought on. And that's because the very ones who brought us here, who are responsible for such a situation now, according to this law, have God, publicly, nicely for hearing, they care about our macroeconomic stability. God forbid if they continue to take care of the state in Croatia. I'm terrified of the fate that they've intended for us for a reason because history teaches us what they've done to us. So who was guarding, who was overseeing the financial sector? Who missed 40 billion kunas of uncharging credits, who approved it? All with the CNB's eyes open. They had powers, they had the greatest powers there was, they took the license, they shut down the bank, they didn't look at it, they encouraged the borrowing of citizens. In one of the minutes of 2010, I said that the population is not yet in enough debt and that the population needs to be even more in debt and less in loans to the economy, this is the HNB's instructions. And now the same for us will preserve macroeconomic stability, and how much it's preserved. We don't have it. We've got financials and macroeconomics are totally unstable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63925	Thank you. Boro Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63926	Thank you very much. Dear Maric, an extraordinary session with extraordinary explanations of this Council on Financial Stability Act. Indeed exceptional when you have said yourself that Article 10 of subparagraph 14 of the Rules of Procedure may be adopted by the Council on its work, and Article 7 of the Rules of Procedure states when it considers it necessary to prevent or reduce systemic risks and when it implements warnings or recommendations from the Republic of Serbia, the Council may, rather than have to, issue warnings and recommendations to the competent authorities, other public authorities and legal persons acting in the Republic of Croatia, so it may. He can do it one more time. In addition, they meet as a circle one at the Croatian National Bank. We know and the composition you said yourself. When will and how long does he want without the rules, the rules, the rules, nothing? So one coffee Saturday is a session of the Council for Financial Stability. And that they will discuss 56 billion kunas of citizens who are in debt for 56 billion kuna banks, who share on the basis of these interest on debts and not on real money, but on debts they will never, they will try to deepen those debts, that citizens will go into total debt slavery because it is already a debt slavery because a citizen can't dig up from his debt at all. He's been in debt for months and years, and more and more and more and he can't pay back his money or return what they would say to zero. About the external trade deficit, just to say in agriculture where Croatia imports two billion euros of food and then we are surprised that agriculture is bad and we export a billion, I must say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63927	Thank you very much. Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63928	Thank you very much. Col. Grubisic, you mention board members, bonuses, what happened not long ago with the Center of the Bank? What happened to some banks that for a number of tens of millions of kuna uncharging loans the CNB has denied appointment as a member of the administration. She has not given consent and how it gives consent to those who have 40 billion kuna unpaid loans and still approve of the bonus payments. Isn't paying the bonus a direct and negative impact on financial stability if it cares about financial stability? However, the CNB is a direct participant of events in these banks and in the Center of the Bank, so their vice governor organised it all and kept quiet about it, as nothing can be known what was in the Center of the Bank. What was in Slavonska Banka, which was in Dubrovnik Bank, which was in Dalmatia, Istria, Rijeka, it must not be known. But will someone tell us how we're going to reduce the government budget deficit? Whether it will be a Council to reduce public debt, not to have a council that will have the authority to make recommendations to preserve financial stability, macroeconomic stability, precisely those that have led us to macroeconomic instability. I know that many would love to have been beatified, but they're better understood in a kind of wine than in a macro-economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63929	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63930	Dear fellow Maric, so it looks like we are a specific country because the financial stability in which we swear so much destabilises all indicators. And you will certainly be able to explain to me as a doctor of economic science whether or not there is only one segment of financial stability, which is the banking sector, while everything else about finance is unstable. You were talking about macroeconomic stability, in fact, macroeconomic instability that encourages exactly the financial stability of banks. All the time we've actually been boasting about something and giving it a positive omen, but this positive omen is turning into a huge downfall in all other areas, and it's really not clear why we need to be in these circumstances, with this role of the CNB that's not negative, but you've said before, you should mention Dostoyevsky, but actually a writer who would write a tragedy about the role of the CNB, we should still set up a Financial Stability Council, we should ask ourselves who, in whose favor and for what and why? We simply refer to it as an extraordinary session in exceptional circumstances, and as if most in power actually matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63931	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63932	Kola Vuksic, the biggest problem in accessing economic problems in Croatia, the lack of macro-obsess, the lack of a view from the bird's perspective. To see the wholeness and total of everything that's going on. We are burdened with a frog's perspective. We can only see from the dead corner. Drive a car, and watching only the dead corner isn't good, let alone run a country. But that comes from politics, but also from what colleges produce. We don't study economics in economic colleges. Do you know there's no macroeconomic management, no college, no college? But you may know that at the Faculty of Economics in Zagreb there are 32 colleges that begin with management, and no macroeconomic management, but management begins. risk management, insurance management, project management of organisations. 32 colleges, and no macroeconomic management, no political economy, no macroeconomic analysis, no financial analysis, no payment traffic, no foreign relations, no foreign trade at all, and sometimes there were two huge books. I think my colleague Bagaric knows from Professor Petrovic one export, one import, each had about 800 pages, only an external trade exchange, today is not taught at all. But we only care about one sector, but it's like we boast, we have one man in Croatia, healthy, completely healthy, maybe he'll survive 20 years on average, but our people are extinct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63933	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63934	Your Honor, Madam President. Comrade Maric, you said the financing of the Croatian economy will be reduced. That's a kind word. Take today's newspaper, I won't mention which, on the duplicate, I think Linic and HBOR's director must go abroad, over a billion euros in debt to finance these companies that have completed the pre-trial settlement. Because banks will not invest any kuna or euro in these companies. It means that they don't believe what they've been involved in, that they don't believe in government politics, that they ignore it, that they don't serve anything. Generally speaking the role of Croatia, in my opinion, the economy, in my court, I do not want to be absolute here, it may be that I am wrong, but in my opinion the policies of the CNB have been generally missed, not only in these two years that they would not tie to this set, but also to the previous one. But what hurt me as a member of the Board of Elections and Appointment, that kid, the director of the current CNB, didn't come, he didn't want to come to the Croatian Parliament at the Committee of Design because we have the right to ask him, we have the right to see him, we have the right to say this or that, normally, that most will choose him. The kid wouldn't come, so he didn't recognise either the Croatian Parliament or the Croatian state, he's a servant of some secret lobby financial and possibly some policy, but he's not a servant of this state and he wanted to publicly show it. He should have been fired then, if not then it is still time because if he does not recognise the Croatian state, the Croatian state should neither recognise him because he will not work for the benefit of the Croatian state but for the benefit of the same secret financial lobbys that control him.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63935	But still, keep an eye on how you call it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63936	I didn't insult anyone, Madam President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63937	You can't say it's some kid, please. Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63938	The role of the Croatian Parliament is very often underestimated in Croatia and individuals are placed above the Croatian Parliament, humiliated by the Croatian Parliament and showed us the muscles that are above and the Croatian and Croatian Parliament, and their effects on their way of working on the consequences for the past two decades have been circulating Croatian lie. The truth just puts on a little shoes when it comes to the CNB. As far as the CNB has ended up in those banks that they previously privatized and first sent into bankruptcy and now appear as great macroeconomic experts, they will hold the sermons. Where did the previous governor end up? It just proves who he worked for and who he served for. The Croatian state is not, and Croatia's fate depends mostly on the role of the CNB. Who doesn't understand it then understands very little about the economy. The role of the finance minister is enormous, the role of the finance ministry is enormous, but their role is even less important in getting out of the crisis than the CNB, and only together can it get results. When it comes to mandates for a year, or for those appointed by office, so in the CNB there are vice-reals for 20 years, that means they will be forever members of everything. Well, that's why it's been like this forever for 20 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63939	Thank you very much. Srdjan Gjurkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63940	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I agree with this last thing you said in your replica, but I need to replicate the stability and responsibility of the CNB for the stability of the state. This is about the law which gives the framework of macroprudential policy or control of strengthening the financial system. So the Financial Stability Council on macroeconomic policy of care would say so, so the government did not lead to the stability of the financial system to unemployment but did not recognise at the right time of crisis and recession in 2008 and poor macroeconomic policymaking. This is why today we have what we have and so many companies in pre-profit deals that the state is trying to save that part of the economy that is vital and which has not properly restructured at the right time. When you spoke and discussed us as some kind of recordmakers in macroeconomic policy, of course, through irony that we are the best, and in fact that you wanted to say the worst, I just want to tell you that last year's budget deficit in the EU was 28 countries counting then and Croatia was 3.9% of GDP, 17 member states had less than 3% including Croatia, and 14 EU member states exceeded 60% of GDP and the average was 87%. So everyone has problems, and we as part of the EU with the measures the government is working on are on track to get out of the crisis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63941	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63942	Col. Gjurkovic, 2010.The deficit was 10 billion kuna, 2011 and the decline was 2, somewhat, 2011.The deficit was 14 billion kuna and economic growth was zero, and there were 242 000 people unemployed. Today, there are 300,000 unemployed, the deficit is 17 billion, with it not going to be that big by the end of the year, it's going to be bigger. You've announced growth, and you've achieved a persistent decline, and you're still insisting on growth of 0.2%, and there's going to be a fall. It cannot be talked about macroeconomic stability if, day by day, months and years, public debt increases, the expenditure of the state budget rises faster than the revenues of the state budget, the negative balance of external trade, the increase of imports, the reduction of exports, the reduction of production. And what is it, but macroeconomic instability? We can cover things up but the general state in the state is not good and it's getting worse. He's worried that it's getting worse, but most of all he's worried about is the non-chalantity of those responsible for this condition. If someone announced a budget plan like this and increased the budget deficit by 60%, that's the only way to resign. But due to pre-fashion settlements, it's precisely some ministers who are based on pre-prime settlements who are popular, but only because they know who they're good for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63943	Thank you. And Nadica Jelish the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63944	You have actually devoted most of your debate to macroeconomic stability, and this law is about the concept of macroprudential policy and macroprudential stability, so this is a far narrower concept of macroeconomic policy and macroeconomic stability. This law aims to create a infrastructure that will rightly oversee the financial sector, make it stable and prevent it from generating the financial crisis that we witnessed in 2008 and whose consequences we still feel fat today and we will feel it for a long time, so that this crisis is not being overrun by the real sector, the economy, and then, in fact, leading to macroeconomic instability. So we all know very well that the economic crisis has started with the financial crisis. The financial system must be defended because we have seen how destabilised the financial system can affect the destabilisation of the economic system. And I do not accept your claim that the stability of the financial system increases as you said macroeconomic instability. On the contrary, therefore, macroeconomic instability is the result of the government's poor policy, so the government's poor economic policy, which just in earlier periods, when capital was incomparably more accessible and incomparably cheaper, did not implement the restructuring of the Croatian economy. So if this had happened, if this had been done, Croatia's macroeconomic stability would have been incomparably better today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63945	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63946	My colleague Jelash, well, I stressed in the introduction that there is a huge difference between financial stability and macroeconomic stability and that it is wrong to close your eyes under the blasphemous financial stability, and that it is constantly increasing macroeconomic instability and that it is a mistake. For example, if the financial sector is stable then how can it be 40 billion kunas of uncharging loans? As you can imagine, the banks have made a profit and have 40 billion kunas of uncharging loans. How is that possible, what do you think? Because they caused macroeconomic instability, that's why. That cost us. Imagine, they've got 13 billion kunas reserved for rioting non-refundable loans and they've earned their profits again. Imagine if everyone had a full charge, loans absolutely all charged, so they'd have a profit then 18 billion kuna banking system. But that's exactly the kind of situation that's left everything in ruins. So when someone just spoke here, how is it possible for a pre-flight colleague Gjurkovic was saying to save employees. Well, the banks only gave one company hundreds of millions of kuna loans that they didn't charge, and you know how many in all related societies, 5-6 related companies, how many employees are there? Less than company. Each company has no employees, one or none of them has been saved, and all those who worked for them turn and perform hotels, buildings, here all over the eastern part of Zagreb, or a little closer to the centre to the east, all of which they pushed into bankruptcy to save the one with one single employee. And that's what disrupts macroeconomic stability, which increases the number of unemployed. Ten companies with 20 employees went bankrupt because of the one being rescued.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63947	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labor colleagues Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63948	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. The Croatian Labour Party does not see any reason why this law should have gone according to emergency procedures and especially at this extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. What would happen if we passed this law in January or, say, February? Nothing important would have happened. Therefore, we do not see any reason nor reason as the legislator tells us that because these two laws that are under discussion today, which is the Law on Credit Institutions, changes to the Law on Market Capital that enter into force in 1.1 next year, that we must pass this law that would enter into force in the following year. Especially the predecessors here today talked about a lot of shortcomings that are present in the law, a lot of irregularities that have been shown and only one procedure, she could go through two readings and the law could have been in that part and repaired because and ultimately the jurisdiction of the entire law and the Financial Stability Council is that it issues warnings and recommendations. Do not enter the law itself into the independence of the CNB, Croatian Financial Institutions and Deposit Insurance Agency. These institutions continue to remain independent and can continue to act on their own. The question arises when we speak of powers, there have been a lot of speeches today and it is said that the Financial Stability Council will be responsible for the establishment of macro-prudential policy and the reduction and prevention of systemic risks and will have the power to issue warnings and recommendations related to the preservation of financial stability to competent authorities, other state administration bodies and legal persons acting in the Republic of Croatia. So it's just a warning issue and just a recommendation. The law is small, it has only 20 articles, the public debate on it was from 19.11. to 3.12., it did not instigate any particular interest, because when we talk about the law itself it will not significantly affect because it can only act in crisis situations with its particular warnings and recommendations. But what is set out in the law itself, and here the predecessors said and which Croatian Labourists disagree that there are certain irregularities in the law, that the council can adopt its rules of procedure, why does it even say so in the law, can or may not. The second thing, when we talk about the composition of the councils, should be particularly highlighted in Article 9 where it is prescribed that the council consists of 10 members and that is 4 representatives of the Croatian National Bank, 2 representatives of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, 2 representatives of the Ministry of Finance and 2 representatives of the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks. And now that we are talking about how we work, then everything is prescribed and everything is in the hands of the Croatian National Bank and it has an absolute majority in the decision-making process and regardless of what the other members participate because they are said to be entitled to vote, so there is no single vote of each member of the Council, but only members of the Croatian National Bank and Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency have the right to vote. That is six votes, with one vote being held by the Ministry of Finance and the State Insurance Agency for Savings Deposits. The question now arises why they have 2 members and have the right to 1 vote, why the law is then made so that the Council has 8 members, so that external experts, co-workers, can attend, can discuss, can hold meetings of the council and certain arguments. But it was primarily done to take the decision finally can be made by the Croatian National Bank headed by the governor because, with its four votes, all others, if the final decision is made against it by the governor because if the undecided result in the vote and adoption, then the governor will be determined by his vote as to what kind of decision will be made. I would not want to continue to prolong the law itself because the predecessors had said a lot before and that is why Croatian Labourists, as I have said, do not see any reason why they should have found themselves on the agenda today. We can't even see that he was supposed to go through an emergency procedure. There was a time, it could have been discussed in a more sober, more normal way, but that's how it was decided. The callers of this extraordinary session felt that he was to be at the hearing today and to be brought in by emergency procedure. It will probably decide, and finally what the predecessors said again Croatian National Bank continues to hold everything in its hands and these are the reasons that Croatian Labourists will be restrained around this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63949	Replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63950	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, you point out here that the Croatian National Bank is holding everything in its hands. So, according to the CNB Act, responsibility and monetary policy is the leading and responsible is the Croatian National Bank. And, in fact, it would be extremely bad if in the Council for Financial Stability of Politics or Fiscus, economic policy, the government had this crucial role because only then would they essentially have destabilization of the financial system and interference in what is not permitted in the EU, but that it is perfectly normal for monetary policy and that everything related to the financial sector, including HANFA, is run by regulatory agencies directly responsible for the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63951	Replication response, Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63952	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Gjurkovic, you said that the Croatian National Bank should have the possibility. Then I don't know what this law is about, so let's give power to the Croatian People's Bank, so let her do that part of her work. We claim that there is some kind of coordination that the governor of the National Bank can determine, and let him decide because the law is laid down so that the Croatian National Bank in the Governor decides on all matters of macroeconomic policy that is prescribed in determining this law. We don't see the purpose of this law at all, but we don't see the purpose of making an emergency procedure in the Assembly if the decision is made by the Governor and the Croatian National Bank, so let us give her the authority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63953	And on behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63954	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will support the adoption of a proposal for a Council on Financial Stability bill. And I want to point out on behalf of the HNS Club, even in the context of the debates and replicas so far, why this is extremely important not only to comply with directives, or regulations. We all know, but should also be reminded that the Croatian National Bank, in accordance with its powers and laws, regulates and operates credit institutions, credit unions, payment institutions, electronic money institutions and payment systems. It shall be responsible for the conduct of supervisory tasks, supervision of the operations of credit institutions. Today we also have a vote on the new Credit Institutions Act, then credit unions, payment institutions, electronic money institutions and payment systems. The Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is the second competent authority in the context of this law in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia which conducts supervision of the financial market and investment companies, investment and other funds, pension insurance companies, insurance companies and resecuritisation of other persons engaged in the provision of financial services, consultation on the financial market and others. Both of these institutions in the Republic of Croatia act as legal entities with public authority responsible for this High House of the Croatian Parliament, and they are essentially monitoring and monitoring macro-prudential in each segment of the financial system. By passing this law, these two legal persons with public authority in one place, in one council with all the responsibilities that this council receives under this law, with the responsibilities and obligations of reporting to the Croatian Parliament. There was a debate on why not the Croatian Parliament? They must report annually to the Croatian Parliament, according to the Information Law, and report to the public. So, absolutely everything is public or transparent as you often say. Together with the State Agency for the Rehabilitation of Banks and the Ministry of Finance, they participate in the analysis, the creation of opinions, views, guidance on macroprudential supervision of the financial system. We in Croatia, even in previous discussions on other points of the agenda, have several times pointed out we have a stable financial system and did not have those needs that other countries had, such as the EU, the impact of the need for the state budget to react to the rescue of banks. Because what happens in Croatia about the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation is not budget funds, these are the funds that separate banks under the law on the State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation. Therefore, this one body is extremely important to cooperate with two regulatory agencies or supervisory agencies with public powers, to share information with each other, and this is the segment that is important in the work of this council in order to put first and fundamentally in protecting the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and to protect the financial system in general. Therefore, on behalf of the HNS Club, I can say that we do not accept objections to the Financial Stability Council, although we believe that it is extremely important and necessary to establish it. It would have been good to have existed before because the fact that in one place and participate and inform and create and create those most responsible for the financial system of the Republic of Croatia can only be commendable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63955	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63956	Thank you very much. You spoke about the way the council works and the decision-making of the council. And it says nicely in Article 9 and Article 10 that in the Council and the Council's way of working, it is made up of 4 members from the CNB, so together with the Governor. And four more from the ministry, agencies, etc. And now for the undecided result, so 8 is valid votes, usually it's an odd number and then it's 9 or 11 or 7 but this time it's 8, in which case, when it's a tie in deciding and making certain tips and recommendations, etc. Then the governor of the CNB decides. Well it is quite clear that here the CNB and we know how it works, Mr Maric spoke best about it, and what it does to the macroeconomic stability of Croatia and financial stability, is that the CNB has a dominant role in decision-making in this council. He may be a member of anyone, but four are members of the CNB with the fact that in the event of an unsolved outcome, the governor of the CNB is the one who decides. Therefore, it is an institution that is actually under the cap of the CNB and the policies of the CNB that has been so far will continue to be implemented. And we see what she's led to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63957	Replication response, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63958	An esteemed colleague, of course, of course, would have to make a decision in the case of unsolved results. So it is quite logical and in line with the legal powers normally conferred on the CNB, i.e. by the other institution or the Ministry of Finance, which participates in the fact that monetary policy and monetary policy stability are primarily responsible for the CNB and has a somewhat more significant role in the entire financial system of the CNB compared to all the factors involved in the work of the Council. Therefore, it is not even questionable, and it would be very questionable if that were not the case. And the stability of the financial system that Mr. Maric also said that and that it exists is not because the CNB did not work well but, in fact, the CNB was doing well because today Croatian banks would not have an adequate of 21% and stability much greater and stronger than in the EU that the CNB did not regulate well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63959	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63960	The following is the Final Proposal for a Council on Financial Stability, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 575. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 5 votes against and 24 abstentions have been passed by the Financial Stability Council Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63961	We move on to - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 576; The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63962	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So it's very short. This law is a package of these laws, the Law on Credit Institutions, where the normability of Croatian legislation is harmonised with European legislation and these directives, as we have said, by Directive 36 of 2013 and by this regulation which is directly applicable to Croatian legislation. That part was where the HNB was competent and the capital market is in the exclusive jurisdiction of HANFA so that these parts also carry out that harmonisation and relate to the highest emphasis on investment companies. So once again this is this package of laws where we comply with the directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63963	Would the Committee's rapporteurs like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Club, colleague Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63964	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, dear Deputy Minister with an associate, esteemed colleague and colleague. Again, the principle commentary on how to pass this law during the extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament is that we are already restrained on this matter because of how to pass this law. But, Mr. Deputy Minister, it is true that this is the majority of compliance with EU directives but it is not all in line directly with the Directives, and it has changed 166 articles, and despite the fact that there has been such a silly explanation, it has been changed and it has been very important to amend as many as 166 articles of the existing law, but because of the principled objection, I will point out only a few more principles and objections to this proposal of the text of the law, where it is visible that not all the directives are but that there are some kind of free creations. Article 5 of the amendment to this proposal states that Article 21 is complemented by the following sentence: "The members of the administration must have the expertise, ability and experience necessary for the independent and independent management of the business of an investment society." So it is clearly defined vaguely, that it must have the expertise necessary for independent and what these knowledge is not defined, what are the conditions, it is not defined. This shall also be complemented by the already existing Article 21 and where the conditions for who may be a member of an investment firm’s management which fulfils the following conditions are prescribed. Under point four, he's got a good reputation. Experience teaches us that we can at least trust those who have a good reputation because a false good reputation is being created. It is an undefined category, an undefined concept and, under paragraph 7, where this is added undefined that it is necessary to have the expertise, skills, experience needed for independent and independent management already exists, for which a person can reasonably conclude on the basis of his/her behaviour so far that he/she will be able to carry out the tasks of a member of the investment society's management in a fair and conscientious manner, the legal condition is something that can be reasonably assessed as to carry out his/her work fairly and knowingly. I don't know who's going to evaluate it, we've already negotiated it before, who's going to evaluate it, who's going to do it honestly? There must be clearer criteria, not so undefined. In Article 6(7), point 6 above is deleted and words shall be added after point 7 which may give sufficient time to fulfil the obligations under its jurisdiction. Once again, an undefined category of definition that there can be a person to a member of the administration who can devote enough time to fulfil the obligations under his jurisdiction. Well, someone's got plenty of time to devote themselves, but they're not. Someone commits, who has less time than the one who has more time. It is no guarantee or condition that anyone has free time to make it a condition for him to be a good chooser. And not a single article that I expected would change in part 21 where it is said that the administration can appoint one or more procurators to determine clearly how many procurators, one or more than two or three, and that is to be determined. According to this proposal, it turns out that it can, or not, turn out to be, but it is true that one investment company can appoint 16 procurators and one of them. It can be an unlimited number, it's not a good legal solution to open up such an indefinite number of procurators. This must be clearly and more clearly defined. Moreover, paragraph 4 shows the management of an investment company, which is now an additional new item, is obliged to adopt an appropriate policy. Again, a vague notion, what is inappropriate politics? For the selection and assessment of compliance with the conditions for members of the administration. So the investment company management is obliged to adopt an appropriate policy for the selection and assessment of compliance with the conditions for members of the administration and the investment company is obliged to implement that policy, this appropriate policy. I don't know what that means, and I think we should redefine it. In the case of members of the Supervisory Board, paragraph 23.a. 2 shall be indicated by members of the Supervisory Board, meaning that all members of the Supervisory Board of a significant investment company must jointly have expertise, skills and so on. So how long has the expertise been accumulated? Together, they must all have together, so to sum up the expertise, it's some new common knowledge. One may have a little less knowledge, another little more, one doesn't have any knowledge of it at all, but this one may have a little bit more, but together it together. I also suggest a little bit of defining that together they must have the skills, experience needed for independent and self-monitoring of jobs. Think of it as independent and independent, but common knowledge. Then individual knowledge of independent surveillance. Article 3 of the Supervisory Board of a significant investment company may be a person who is now fulfilling the following. He's got a good reputation again. The first condition for a member of the Supervisory Board is that he has a good reputation. So look who were all members of the Supervisory Board of these companies who produced so many employees for the Employment Service, and you'll see that they were all, most of them were respected, and they actually played a very negative role in running certain business entities, and they all had a good reputation. Dispose of that term or it, have clear criteria for people who will be responsible for their jobs. It must be both experience and years of knowledge and precisely prescribed professional preparation. I respect every profession, but for these, we need economic knowledge, we need experience, and define it with a certain degree, a certain college, and not that we come every day to the temptation that we have as much importance as any other university degree, which will lead us and which is already bringing us into very unpleasant situations. The second paragraph prescribed by a member of the Supervisory Board is that he has the appropriate expertise, abilities and experience prescribed by a member of the Management Board. If someone is going to oversee someone, then they would have to have a little more experience, a little wider horizon and a little more knowledge than the one they're watching, and then it should be clearly prescribed so that it doesn't turn out to be someone who has less knowledge and less experience of someone with more knowledge and more experience. This makes it possible, and unfortunately this happens very often in practice that members of the Board must teach members of the Supervisory Board because they do not understand what it is, they do not understand either financial reports or the work system itself. And again, which can devote enough time to fulfilling the obligations under its jurisdiction. This turns out that pensioners would best be appointed members of the Supervisory Board. They have as much time as they want, but that won't give us a score. It has to be defined. Since you've been very short, I've got a lot of notes like this yet, but I can see that others aren't too interested in it, we're going to be restrained on the passing of this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63965	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63966	Dear fellow Maric, it seems to me that when we passed one of the laws we also spoke, the same recommendations in the law were written and we talked about a good reputation. What good is that? In Croatia, we should first of all define what is a good reputation. Let's say someone suspected of a good reputation or Mr. Nadan Vidosevic or Mr. Ivo Sanader or all those members of the Croatian Highway Management Board, members of the Highway Supervisory Board, someone would have dug his eyes out. They'd say don't doubt how you laugh, dare. Some have even been declared traitors who doubted their good reputation, so I agree with you, that definition, or that recommendation, or that text should certainly be thrown out of the law. You asked, you actually realized that very often those in the Supervisory Committees have less experience and less knowledge than those they should be watching. Well, you know very well, colleague Maric, that for a long time and at the time of the former government and the present, it doesn't matter how much anyone knows, whether or not he's experienced or not, but it matters which party he belongs to, it's important that he listens, that he doesn't create problems, and that those people are trusted because they've been watching, they've been doing their job on the Supervisory Boards, absolutely certain that the image economically in Croatia would be much better because then they would really be members of the Supervisory Board who oversee it. These are people who are sitting and receiving some apánagas and are simply in love by party duty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63967	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63968	Thank you very much. I'm glad you agree that a good reputation can't be a criterion. The truth is that companies have so-called companies. A good reputation, good will, but they are easy to measure, if a company exists for 30, 40 or 100 years and has never been a tax debtor, has never fired workers so that a working court would have to return those fired workers, has never had a case of not paying the wages, has never paid off its contractual obligations, has never been late to its suppliers and so does business traditionally, then of course it has a good reputation and it is being valorised in the value of that company. But when it comes to an individual, we can't approach it like that. The individual, when it comes to it, we have two perverse images. We have that picture of the media and that picture that's real, which is actually very often in case the media distorts the impression of individuals, that the media falsely or creates a negative image or positive, but very little is realistically depicting individuals. Someone's a 24-year-old communication expert, an expert on this. You know what an expert means, call someone an expert? Well, it's an unserious approach if you call someone an expert, it can only be extraordinary to some individuals, and it's very small. And with us how to keep your reputation if the DORH accuses you of something and after a year, two or five prove you were right. You can't get that reputation back at all. And since that reputation that was protected and it was done, and it is known that it did some sort of misdemeanor, and it is not protected by anyone, and the media glorify it with nothing you can prove that it has no good reputation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63969	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63970	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Well, here's to the lead of my predecessors only in the shortest lines of the SDP Club's views on this law that will in any way support this law. After the crisis in 2008, in the EU, it is quite intense that we are members now, we have become used to this very intensive work in this area, but I just might not know Article 1 or 2 of this law is on two pages that prescribes how much of this law is being called on. I say it is a dynamic world, and although I understand the intensities of my colleague Marić's debate in front of the HDZ club about the clearer and more precise regulation of these measures on the staff that the conditions for setting up in certain places are, the question is whether in today's dynamic world and we can so strictly rewrite it and whether it is in some area and restriction. Here you read yesterday in the media Sebastian Kurz if I'm not wrong Austrian at the age of 27 becomes Austrian Foreign Minister, counts on being an Chancellor. We have a Serbian Finance Minister with an early 30s or late 20s, so the question is whether I say dynamics today and new solutions is whether 10, 15 years should be prescribed, etc. The Directives provide a fairly broad framework. I agree with you that there are a lot of unfortunate translations in some segments and that this law needs to be corrected in the end line yourself you said that in 166 points it is fixed, and given this dynamic that we are talking about and that we will probably have it two, three times in the debate I will see that they... have carefully written down so we will try to fix those solutions. But here's to going back to the law itself, as promised in the shortest lines. Therefore, compliance with CD 4 Directives on the accession of credit institutions' activities and prudential supervision of credit institutions and investment firms and Regulation 575 of last year on prudential requirements for credit institutions and investment firms. We know that the deadline for the transposition of this Directive is practically for all Member States on 1 January of this year and that they are practically automatically entering legislation. Therefore, the reason for the adoption of this package in the EU is to apply new global standards of banking in EU law, and the same measures are also aimed at strengthening the integrity of participants in the capital market. Since capital requirements as well as requirements regarding adequate management of investment societies and supervision of their work as well as other measures adopted by the CD 4 package apply to this segment of the market. So increased transparency regarding the activities of institutions is necessary to restore citizens' confidence in the financial sector. There's been a lot of debate over previous points, we haven't had any major problems, there's only a few under this law reporting the misdemeanors we've had luck with in that area. But by entering the EU, certain dynamics are expected in our capital markets, but of course we must also accept the rules of the common society. What are the basic changes in the law itself? Therefore, more detail is given to the justice of investment companies, the supervisory framework, and the prudential rules for investment firms. With regard to management of management and supervisory boards, they must approve and regularly review strategies and policies for risk assessment and management, which the investment firm is exposed to. HANFA will give its rules and policies in more detail, i.e. how these policy strategies should be implemented. In addition, enhanced supervisory measures aimed at protecting and protecting investors' interests in order to preserve the stability of the system are being introduced. HANFA will verify the organisational conditions, policy strategies and procedures that the investment firm has established, verify and assess the financial stability and position of supervisory entities, the risks to which the investment firm is exposed and similar, and will also check the results of stress testing and, in accordance with the provision of investment firms, thus stressing the credit market and operational risk, all according to the methodology that the EBA and... The banking identity works according to its guidelines. There shall also be mandatory cooperation between supervisory authorities on the internal market, the supervisory authorities of the Member States and the ESM. It is therefore necessary to establish and implement an appropriate and effective system of management and monitoring of exposure portfolios and to carry out appropriate coordination and reservation. In order to ensure an adequate level of liquidity, liquidity must be monitored on a daily basis. Investment firms are also obliged to monitor and manage concentration risks and the risk of excessive leverage. In addition to these harmonisations, one significant part of you said yourself in the previous debate, so 166 points, one significant part of the amendment and complemented them in order to comply with the Administrative Procedure Act, and also what is important is prescribed that the Agency, and I was talking about it, within 6 months of the entry into force of this law, will adopt sublegal acts based on this law and regulation. Whether these six months are the happiest or not I don't know, but it's obviously the upper limit of adapting to this directive. Final sentence, the SDP club, as well as the first, the SDP club will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63971	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63972	Thank you very much. A colleague of Radjenović, you agreed with undefined conditions for members of the board of directors of the investment society and the supervisory board, but you did give a small fence and a remark that perhaps you shouldn't worry so much about the experience and years. Nothing so compromised the banking system and the banking call as investment banking. The whole crisis, which today is based on these unbearable consequences, the terrible consequences of the entire global crisis are caused by investment banking, the cause of the sector. That is why I have shown the need for clearer conditions and requires this responsible work so that we do not return to the situation in which we are today and you can see that history is repeated every few decades. Let's not underestimate knowledge, and let's not underestimate experience even less. We need to define that more clearly for every need. One of the most esteemed jobs I personally appreciate in my life is the work of nurses, but never will a nurse operate, ever, because criteria are clearly set, but nurses operate on investment companies. They've brought us into this situation and on boards. If the proper president and members of the Supervisory Board in Croatia had never allowed the payment of bonuses to members of the administration, never in such a time, but they were no match for the job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63973	Replication response, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63974	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So I didn't think that this proposal was underestimating knowledge and experience, the purpose of this debate was to establish minimum criteria, but I say those on the other hand must not be rigid and I say the legislator is, I see by the climate and I've been having some conversations, we can establish some lower minimum criteria. But what was the intensities of my debate, that they eventually shrunk compared to some former times. I mentioned the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Austria or the Ministry of Finance of Serbia, there are other examples, and therefore a lot is going towards someone to say that to education. Today it's more alive, more intense, and it's also looking for more dynamic people on that side. Experience is good anyway, and you should have it, but what you know best doesn't always have to be a guarantee that some things work. To pull the parallel, Mr. Vidosevic was what, 15 years at the head of the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so we all realized together just now what was actually going on there. Although more closely following his views on how and what should be done for the Croatian economy, he was the first to say some things that we unfortunately accepted today in 2009 and 2010. As unpopular as it may be, I will say it here, in his presidential campaign he had a good view of what and how it should be done in the Croatian economy, and unfortunately the former government did nothing in this direction. Mr. Sanader has also been for 8 years, etc., I mean the experience doesn't always have to be a guarantee of quality and honesty and justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63975	On behalf of HNS representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63976	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear deputy with associate, colleague and colleague. So, in the opening statements on behalf of other clubs, the essence of this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act is, of course, said, more coherent and in fact some new practical implementations relating to the capital market. Therefore, on behalf of the HNS Club which supports this bill and works for the public, it is recalled in essence what this law refers to, which are the values of this company, i.e. which is the capital market to make it easier to implement and to make it easier to understand the importance of this segment as it was related to the Credit Institutions Act. Therefore, this law relating to the capital market essentially refers to the total value of transactions in the settlement and intent system during 2012 of HRK 262 billion and are related to the operation of the central clinical deposit company. So this law regulates a lot of new ones and harmonises the rules relating to transactions that amounted to, say, 262 billion kuna in 2012 regarding the central clinical deposit system. Then this law also refers to 10 investment and 19 credit institutions whose investment companies managed in 2012 with a portfolio of 753 million kuna, i.e. they had assets under a portfolio of 753 million kuna, they operated essentially with 59 billion kuna. Investment funds covered by this same law in 2012 were 121 open-ended investment funds. At the end of 2012, they had $13.5 billion in assets. Then we have pension funds and pension insurance companies. We had a law not so long ago on them. In 2012, they managed a net asset of 51 billion kuna and closed voluntary pension funds of 441 million kuna. Then we have 27 licensed insurance companies, one reinsurance company that had gross premiums in last year of 9 billion kuna, and the total assets of insurance companies and resecuritisation companies amounted to 35 billion kuna on 31 December 2012. Leasing companies under the same law, i.e. the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Capital Market Act, are managed by 25 Leasing companies that managed last year, i.e. had a turnover of more than 22 billion kuna and a factoring company. So there are extremely large amounts of what when we talked about the banking system or the banking industry and this capital market industry, securities. This law is definitely one step forward in regulation, in supervision and together with the Council Act which will be established today by voting, we will get another more stable system, and what should be worked on in any case, that the capital market is working even more, even stronger, even more quality, because it is one of the important segments of the development of this society and the development of the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63977	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63978	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 576. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour, 24 against and 4 abstentions have been passed a law amending and supplementing the Capital Market Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63979	Our colleagues and colleagues will not set a break, because we have two more points to discuss and we would vote at 15.00 hours, or when we discuss the last point. We're going to go to 4. The proposal for a decision to set up a Committee on Fiscal Policy is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply when making a decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the reports at the session, and the motion for a decision will be explained by Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63980	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Very short. So in 2011, a Committee on Fiscal Policy was established whose key task is to consider and assess the application of the fiscal rules laid down by the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The Committee on Fiscal Policy was founded on the basis of a Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the establishment of a Committee on Fiscal Policy, and the Decision was appointed by the members of the Committee by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. By letter dated 6 December 2013, the Ministry of Finance proposed to the Government of the Republic of Croatia to refer the initiative to the Croatian Assembly for the establishment of the Committee on Fiscal Policy as a working body of the Croatian Parliament and in accordance with Article 45. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to monitor the implementation of the Law on Fiscal Responsibility with which amendments and amendments were discussed in this House of Commons in the first reading. Furthermore, the transposition of the provisions and the Council Directive 2011/85/EU into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia on the need to strengthen the independence of the Committee in accordance with the provisions of that Directive and to strengthen the role of the Committee as supervisor of the application of the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The proposal for the decision in question provides for the Commission to monitor the application of the fiscal rules laid down by the Fiscal Responsibility Act, which will contribute to ensuring and maintaining financial discipline, transparency, and medium- and long-term sustainability of public finances. The Committee is chaired by the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Assembly, who is also a member and the Committee, consisting of presidents and six members from the ranks of the State Audit Office, the Economic Institute, the Institute of Public Finance, the Croatian National Bank, the Faculty of Economics and the Faculty of Law. So, just like he's been one representative at a time. And it is important to say that members of the Committee other than the President of the Committee shall appoint the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Finance and the State Budget for a period of 5 years and after the end of the term of office may be re-appointed. So in that part of the board becomes the working body of this House of Commons. So far, the members have been appointed by the Government and will now and in the future appoint this High House as members of that committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63981	Thank you. Does anyone on behalf of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. On behalf of the club, I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative Hrvoja Nekic's club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63982	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister with an assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. Thus, the government established a fiscal policy committee in 2011 whose key task is to monitor fiscal rules under the fiscal responsibility law. Meanwhile, Directive 85/11 has entered into force, which is important for us to transform the same legislative framework within our legislative framework. So two, three weeks ago, we also had a proposal for a law on complementarity and amendments to the Fiscal Responsibility Act. Discussing then at the parliamentary debate on the proposal to amend and supplement the Fiscal Responsibility Act, the distinguished colleagues also mentioned the future position of the fiscal committee itself. Since the directive indicates that the position of the fiscal committee must be unequivocally, independently and professionally. We can now say that the debate on amendments and amendments to the Fiscal Responsibility Act itself has shown that it would be good, and international practice suggests that such a working body should be raised to the level of the working body of the Croatian Parliament. What I would like to point out is that the board has been chaired by the finance minister so far, and should be chaired by that committee in the future, so the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget. Moreover, what is important to say is that he would help the work of the Committee on Finance and Budgets because, among other things, before and before the debate on the draft budget, this Committee would report to the Committee on Finance on the application of the fiscal rule under the Fiscal Responsibility Act. The establishment of the Committee on Fiscal Policy as the second working body of the Croatian Parliament will strengthen its independence in order to play a supervisory role in the application of the Fiscal Responsibility Act in accordance with best practice. In order not to list now, my colleague Lalovac told you who should be involved in the work of this committee, here I will just say and I will not continue to point out that institutions will propose for their representative a person from the ranks of prominent scientists and professional professionals an appropriate expertise that has expertise and work experience in the fields of public finances, macro-economy, economic policy and accounting. Members of the commission, except the chairman of the commission, shall be appointed by the Croatian Parliament on a proposal from the Committee on Finance and the State Budget for a period of 5 years. And after the term of office, they may be re-appointed. Members of the commission, except the President, at the time of appointment and not during the previous three years and during the commission membership, shall not be members of political parties. The Committee shall report on the positions taken during the performance of its tasks to the Committee on Finance and the State Budget of the Croatian Parliament and inform the public about the publication on the website of the Committee on Fiscal Policy. The SDP will therefore support the decision to set up a fiscal policy committee for the sake of everything said.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63983	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63984	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. So here in this one I can tell the light farce of the session a debate about one law that would probably be discussed under other conditions would pull a little wider debate. And what counterpart Dalic and counterpart Maric said on behalf of the club on previous laws, I will also say that I agree in principle with the content of the law with certain remarks. However, I am sorry that these important financial laws came as some kind of disguise for the debate to take place, but what is there is. However, I would not want the debate on this law to pass for a simple reason, because, as the author of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, I know clearly what was the purpose of the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility, aware that, in the future, by harmonising Croatian legislation and the Law on Fiscal Responsibility with EU directives, this body will have to gain another far greater independence. And it would be very interesting for colleagues and colleagues to be able to read the minutes from the last fiscal board and see that this committee has warned about many of the things that we are unfortunately politically bickering about here. They're very lifelike. So when you look at Article 5, it is also clearly defined by the provisions of the fiscal committee, so you can imagine that the fiscal committee had greater independence and that it was not chaired by the finance minister that the debate would probably be different because of everything that is going on in the state budget today. So Article 5(3) tells you that the departments and other central authorities of the state administration and other budgetary and extra-financial users of the state budget are obliged to submit documents and data to the Commission required to carry out its task as referred to in point 4 and point 4 is precisely referred to as the control of the implementation of the fiscal rule. We, colleagues and colleagues, have witnessed that many leaders, so first of all ministers, violated the Law on Fiscal Responsibility last year. So, they spent far more than this House granted them because when this House adopts the budget, then whoever is headed by the budget user, so the ministry, agency, office or something else, if he has not received enough funds to implement his programme, he is obliged to change the programme or is obliged to ask the Prime Minister to rebalance him with additional funds. If this all doesn't happen together and if he oversteps his position, he's obliged to resign. So that was the old fiscal responsibility law. These things were discussed at the last meeting of the fiscal committee because as far as I know, the debate was extremely loud because the people on that committee were extremely professional and warned about these very things. The second thing, just because we don't forget our colleagues and colleagues for the following year, and in fact it can already apply to what is happening to us about the 2014 Budget, is therefore Chapter 6 or Article 6(5), where the Government of the Republic of Croatia is obliged to coordinate macroeconomic and budgetary projections with the latest European Commission projections in the document adopted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. So, colleagues and colleagues, we have received the European Commission's projections for Croatia for the next three years and the European Commission's projections for 2014, 2015 and 2016 differ from the projections that the Government has sent to this House of Commons and which this House adopted. And now I ask you, colleagues and colleagues, when we adopt this actually decision to set up a commission with the adoption of a decision to set up a commission, we also adopted everything that the commission should do. So I ask you and myself a question in the first session of the commission that the Commission will have to conclude that what the Government has proposed in the proposal for the 2014 budget and in the projections of the 2015 and 2016 budget, starting with macroeconomic projections, hence economic growth, deficits, etc. is not in line with what the European Commission proposes. And we are already practically 1.01. except we are in trouble because we are in excessive deficit measures and this budget in 2014 is practically not valid to us because we are almost in temporary financing measures, because we have adopted a document that does not comply with the legal rules. So, I'm just warning you of this paragraph in Chapter 4, and just to warn you what we're going to do after the first session, that's primarily the chairman of the Finance Committee who's going to chair the first session when we choose this committee that clearly defines. Because in the end, what was the meaning of this fiscal committee, which in its first years was to say so, was within the Ministry of Finance and then was later to be formed as an independent body, and it was precisely made up of people from different institutions, people from professions who were simply meant to promote movements in state finances, promote the implementation of fiscal policy and make certain remarks if certain budget users jump out of fiscal rules and make observations to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This should therefore be strengthened in a certain way by the Ministry of Finance as an institution responsible for the implementation, implementation of the budget. Finally, every budgetary user is responsible for the implementation of the budget, but colleagues and colleagues have tried to do so with this fiscal committee that is still in force. So there was also an attempt to play a game that was contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia that someone at the small door tried to push this committee into the State Audit even though the Constitution defined an independent position of state audit but that would be the reason why the State Audit Act must be amended, then it would be the basis for changing the State Auditor. So, all of this should be said for the reason that this unserious relationship towards changes to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia has led us, at the end of the course of the last two months, to establish a practical working body of the Parliament and I sincerely hope that this committee will actually do this work, in fact, a commission for fiscal policy. The only thing I miss about my colleagues and my colleagues in this decision has become Parliament's working body. But at least I haven't seen this working body of the Parliament file any report on this high house, and it doesn't even report to the parent working body, and that's the Committee on Finance except that in the person of the chairman of the Committee on Finance, it's practically the Parliamentary Committee on Finance in charge of this. It is a logical thing, therefore, if this independent body follows the implementation of the budget, that is, the implementation of the Fiscal Responsibility Act, if it follows the implementation of fiscal rules not only of the statesman but also of the units of local and regional self-government. So this body can also promote, consider the budget of units of local and regional self-government. And now the question arises if it submits a report to the Government and if the Government is simply acting as it is now acting because we now have several ministries that practically 15 days before the end of the year broke the Fiscal Responsibility Act, spent more than what is this role of this independent body if the Parliament can't do anything in principle? So, in principle, we support the decision to establish a commission as another working body of the Finance Committee, but because of the procedure and because of what unfortunately happens in favour of financial laws, so we will remain abstention in voting, but in principle we support this establishment and perhaps to promote these remarks because I think, first of all, that it will be easier for you in the Ministry of Finance, if one such independent body gives you support for certain things, if certain ministers are deaf to everything that is being said, then I simply think that, based on the reports of this body to this High House, then the High House of this House at its plenary session can take a decision in a certain way to punish those who have passed into the Law on fiscal responsibility when already the gentlemen who have broken the law, who have failed to comply with that financial framework on which this Assembly approves their moral and political responsibility to make their mandate available to those who have been proposed by the President. So thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63985	Thank you, too. We're moving on to an individual debate. Goran Maric, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63986	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, just a few remarks. First, one commendation, which gave up a truly irrational proposal to end up in the State Audit Office. It was heard by the voice and the public, our voice was heard here, and it gave up and it was to congratulate. But when it was already going the right way, then this proposal could have been prepared, so it was more appropriate, for example, to call this if you had a name in the beginning of the Committee on Fiscal Policy now changed to the Committee on Fiscal Policy, i.e. you had a Committee on Fiscal Responsibility and now to the Committee on Fiscal Policy. I think it would be more appropriate to call it the same now to the Commission for fiscal responsibility or to the Committee on Fiscal Responsibility, because again we must indicate fiscal policy and separate from fiscal responsibility. And this is actually the Commission for Fiscal Responsibility and not for Fiscal Policy, the fiscal policy is being implemented by the Ministry of Finance. And this commission should take care of fiscal responsibility and the very purpose of establishing it is fiscal responsibility. As for the composition of the commission, I have a few grudges. First of all, it is good that it is with the Committee on Finance and the State Budget but it is not good that it is just the chairman of the Committee on Finance and Budget, a member of this committee and even chairing the committee. And in the introduction here, we heard that they must be non-partisan people, experts. So there must be non-partisan people who are chaired by a party person and are still chairman of the board. This is contrary to the EU's tendency and directive. But if you've already stepped down from that and said it was necessary for the chairman of the board to be chair, then it would be logical that at least two other members of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget are the same members of this committee. But the only logical, only effective and only purpose would be that the president of this Committee on Fiscal Responsibility, not for fiscal policy, should be a representative of the Economic Institute or the Institute of Public Finance. And that there are no members of the party, but if there is, then it is not good to be just a representative of one party from the Croatian Parliament and no one else. And I don't know how the composition of this committee is going to work, chaired by the chairman of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, not doubting the expertise at all, but as a party man who presides over all those experts, experts from the Institute or the Faculty of Economics or the Faculty of Law. I don't know how it's gonna work, and I don't know why there's only one individual and why there's only one party man and no one else. I think we should, we still have time to correct it and correct it. A fellow Shuker spoke of those budget users who overstepped both powers and broke the limits of expenditure, and no responsibility. Well, it would be the commission's task to sanction and call for responsibility. However, if no one has taken responsibility for anything, then it is difficult to expect that responsibility will be taken even though it is logical that what is most lacking in Croatian society is responsibility. It is irresponsible to treat budget expenditure irresponsiblely, not to bear any responsibility. How can an irresponsible person do something and have no consequences? It would have to be automation. And just this law, Chapter 4 you were talking about, the Committee on Finance should therefore discuss the report and the conclusions of this committee. And what happens when the committee concludes, or commission, they can't get used to calling the commission because you've been calling the committee all the time preparing for this bill. When the Commission finds that the fiscal rule is not met and the report submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia is drawn up, why is it not delivered to both the Committee and the Parliament? And what happens when the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which is due within 30 days of receiving the report, proposes a plan of necessary measures with implementation deadlines that will lead to the fulfilment of the fiscal rule, if it does not? That's not defined. All this stuff that I've been saying is that I have to be abstentions on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63987	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63988	Proposal for a Decision establishing the Committee on Fiscal Policy. The debate is closed. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 79 votes in favour, 4 votes against and 25 abstentions have been decided on the establishment of the Committee for Fiscal Policy in the text as proposed by the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63989	We're going to go to six. Final draft law on the Central Insurance Register, second reading, P.Z. No. 508; Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to second reading shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You've received reports. With us is Deputy Minister of Labour and Pension System, Mr. Bozidar Stubelj with an associate. Here you go, Deputy, intro.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63990	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This bill proposes to extend and prescribe one legislative act of the REGOS. Since it has so far been defined through different regulations, the proposed law newly regulates the powers and competences of REGOS in order to comply with the newly regulated system of state administration authorities and legal entities in public power. The proposal for a law is in line with the opinions and proposals of the competent institutions, thus resolving any questions that this law regulates to contribute to the greater coherence of the whole system and social security and related other systems. This proposal also provides for conditions for electronic data exchange with institutions in the social security system at national level and with competent institutions of EU Member States in implementing the coordination of social security systems in accordance with EU regulations. The REGOS has been given the role of a competent institution and liaison bodies in relation to the rights of members of the mandatory pension funds to be implemented under European coordination regulations as well as the role of the Croatian Access Point for Electronic Data Exchange in the social security system at European level. The conditions for better and more effective protection of insurance and other persons in the exercise of their rights shall also be ensured and the causes which generate the creation of non-compliance of data on obligations kept in registers and records of different institutions shall be eliminated, thus ensuring a faster, more accessible, safer service for the needs of end-users. The institution of this law is to strengthen the role of REGOS as one of the two institutions responsible for the collection and processing of data on all receipts and public administrations through a single form which will replace a number of existing forms which employers and payers of receipts under applicable rules submit to the Tax Administration and the Central Insurance Register. In the light of the draft law, this final proposal sets out the data that REGOS is authorised to take over from the Tax Administration and provides for the infringement provisions required by REGOS in order to implement the integration of the paid and unscheduled contributions to pension insurance by the basis of individual capitalised savings. It is proposed to enter into force of the law of 1 January 2014 as the law is procedurally related to the entry into force of the Law on the collection, processing, connection and use, exchange of data and receipts in public provision by insurance companies whose application is also determined as from 1 January 2014. We suggest this High House accepts the final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63991	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63992	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Deputy with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. So if there was still a reason for those financial laws to call an extraordinary session for them, then this law could by no means be found at an extraordinary session, the more this law may most clearly show how this government works. We first pass the Law on the pattern, and then we pass the law on an institution that should use that form. Well, I guess it's logical that you first make a law on an institution or institutions that will take that form and process it, etc., and then you make a decision on what that form will look like. But I'm saying this is just another indicator of how he's holding onto this High House and how it works. I'm saying this is gonna repeat what I said this morning on behalf of the club, so these laws were just supposed to serve as some kind of farce that could call an extraordinary session to discuss constitutional changes. But what happened happened will also be debated about this law. Well, in order not to let him go, obviously, that colleagues from the ruling coalition don't really want to discuss this law too much, I would still like to warn some things about the fact that nothing will change because, according to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the amendment for the bill, only the Government can accept, and not the Proposer. Therefore, just enough to keep it in the record. If we are already talking about REGOS being what was not wanted to be clearly defined here, so they are accounting for the 1st and 2nd stages of retirement and that is the only real definition of REGOS these are all other fictional things. And if he is accounting, if he collects data from institutions that are part of the Ministry of Finance, then colleagues and colleagues, don't you think that of 7 members of the Governing Council at least 1 member should not have been from the Ministry of Finance? So for the simple reason that if there are any noises in communication and when discussed on the board of directors, then it would be logical if 4 members were given the Ministry of Pensions, 2 members that... one representative of the union of one employer, a worker was given a representative but in several articles you mentioned the Tax Administration and Treasury then it is illogical if the main lever that this system could at all operate the Ministry of Finance that there is no at least a representative of the Ministry of Finance i.e. Tax administrations, this is Article 6. But I'm saying that's the thing of the promoter about it I was saying something in the first part. However, Article 9 states that REGOS shall report to the government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency at least once a year in the preceding year by the end of the current year. I don't think this REGOS report can go until the end of the current year it should be by 6 months at the latest and then the Government of the Republic of Croatia should refer this report to the Croatian Parliament. And I don't understand why REGOS would file a report to HANFA because HANFA is the agency responsible for monitoring the non-banking financial sector. REGOS is not a financial sector, it is an accounting service for solid pension savings and for the second pillar of pension, so it is a pension fund service. According to what kind of finance it is, no financial institution is. They are not involved in any payments, payments, they don't issue any shelves, they simply record what was paid and the basis of the data is done by some other administrative body, so it's a clean administrative body and nothing else. And I don't understand why we're constantly chasing the notions of why some institutions are serving us because if in previous laws we said that HANFA would practically create a joint institution with the Ministry of Finance with the DAB with the CNB that should control financial stability and macroprudentiality, and here we are pushing HANFA to control practically the accounting and administrative affairs of an institution that is by no means a financial institution, let alone the institution of the non-banking sector. "To carry out operations within its activities, the REGOS provides funding from the state budget, from compulsory and voluntary pension companies and pension insurance companies, from revenue made under the laws, regulations and other sources." Look at colleagues and colleagues, when REGOS was founded in 2002 when it practically started with the 2nd degree complete organisation of REGOS was all financed from the state budget. We changed that at one point because we said it was illogical that the 4 voluntary pension funds that collect all the nice money from it was about 250 million, or now it's slightly reduced from the management of the second pillar of pension. So if REGOS works for them, and these funds are when, we can now agree or disagree but it is practically private savings for every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who decides to do so and if someone takes the money to manage it in a certain way. Then it's a logical thing, and if someone else records it and takes care of it, no matter what the state founded it to the same team that collects their service to pay for their service. And then it would be logical, given that at this point it's known how much this REGOS cost, so it might be good, Mr. Deputy Minister, if we went to the percentage part here, to say so much and so much of the total that the payment is recorded in one and the other is you know why? You've listed four sources of funding here, the REGOS is a non-profit organization, it actually has a non-profit status, I can't make a profit. But then you say here if the REGOS is in item 2, if the REGOS achieves a surplus of revenue on expenditure by its business, at the end of the financial year the surplus will be paid into the state budget. Now, look, the logical thing is that if I'm provided with REGOS services and he makes some extra income that I can say that tomorrow people who use services these 4 pension funds with a full right to say wait, why do you pay so much REGOS. If he has paid an excess of 15 million in the state budget, perhaps in that 15 million 5 or 6 million are the funds that in 4 voluntary pension funds or those others who use REGOS services, they should not have paid, and they did not have the opportunity to decide what their payment would be. So maybe the law should have defined it clearly in the percentage section if we know that REGOS costs 100 million kuna per year, I say by heart, if he records payments from the second pillar of pension of 5-5.5 billion, if that's a million and 600 and so many thousands of users, then it can be said that 1%, 0.5% by heart, of the total payment belongs to REGOS. And then this provision about that this resulting income if there is an excess of the income of the state budget makes sense, but like this, when we have no defined but the REGOS probably sign a contract with those funds but you don't know by what parameters. That's where I haven't been able to see who's bringing him the parameters, but I'm saying that's an observation and I think she should have been thought about. Also with... REGOS shall be designated as the value of legal transactions which require the consent of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Look, we have clearly defined with the establishment of DUDI that all institutions that are based in one way or another on a state budget cannot be the owners of anything, it is all the property of the Republic of Croatia. So REGOS can only be the owner of the basic assets it works on, and everything else is problematic. Finally, REGOS is responsible for the obligations of all of its assets, the founder of REGOS in solidarity, unbounded liability to REGOS. The law says that the founder of the state, in this decision to establish REGOS, is not mentioned in the law that this House is discussing the REGOS report. What do you say hypothetically if it happens that REGOS achieves 10 million kunas, from which position the state from the state budget will settle or we will include DUDI here, if we don't mention them anywhere because DUDI is authorized practically to manage state-owned enterprises and all other institutions. Does REGOS belong here or not? So a series of questions that, in that final instance, if it happens negatively, can be opened, and we unfortunately have not solved this by this law, but... done. And Article 12, administrative oversight of the performance of REGOS operations shall be carried out by the Ministry responsible for the pension system. I understand how much administrative supervision in this country can be performed only by the Ministry of Administration, and if you want administratively, we're talking about administrative oversight, these supervisions that are carried out by the relevant ministries on bodies that are directly subject to them, it's different supervision, it's not administrative surveillance, it's second surveillance. You have this in the Ministry of Construction which oversees state offices etc., but REGOS cannot identify with the state office, REGOS is an independent body. The fact that what's in some kind of business and job description is the most part of the ministry that's in charge of the pension system is one thing, but that means the administrative council and other things there. So we're saying that if we gave the authority to submit the report to HANFA, among other things, if we consider the REGOS report, then, among other things, we're discussing the way REGOS has adopted certain acts. So this definition of administrative oversight just doesn't seem to suit you as far as the Ministry of Pensions is concerned. And that article 18, that's what I was saying when I was talking about that famous form of JOPDD or whatever it's called, no matter what it was trying to explain here, but I think this is hard to implement. So the government authority responsible for the State Treasury's affairs. The State Treasury is not a state administration body, the State Treasury is part of the Ministry of Finance, and therefore it can only be talked about the Ministry of Finance, and an integral part of the Ministry of Finance is the State Treasury which has a special status as well as the Tax Administration and the Customs Administration and the former foreign inspectorate, and the current Financial Inspectorate and the Office for the Prevention of Money as special status as in status... the State Treasuryman has a special status. So it can't be the government's body responsible for the State Treasury's affairs because there's no one in charge of the State Treasury's affairs. What the State Treasury is doing is clearly defined by law and there is no body responsible for the affairs of the State Treasury. The State Treasury is defined by law and is precisely defined what it does. Therefore, if anything is to be given, any order that the Treasury should be made, then that should be defined by the Ministry of Finance. It's precisely in the design section that you know what the Treasury is and that's how it should be defined. But I repeat, you can get this data from paragraphs 1 and 2 exclusively from the IRS, but I'm saying you obviously insist on that. The excess head doesn't hurt, just if you already have that excess then clearly define the administrative body, don't skip it. Because look, we have a decision on the formation of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, we have a decision on the formation of each ministry. If we have a decision on the formation of the ministry then the State Treasury has its own status in the Building Decision, the Governing Body of the Ministry of Finance has its own status. And he's no imaginary administrative body. After all, we established this State Treasury because all state money goes over one place, and we defined by the Fiscal Responsibility Act if you notice in the Treasury that someone spends unauthorized money the finance minister can set up a commission that can control. Therefore, this State Treasury has a clear function and you cannot define it as an imaginary body. But I say, unfortunately, the time, the way this law is being discussed, not wanting to accept well-intentioned suggestions, unfortunately, makes us want to at least be restrained about this law. But colleagues and colleagues, never in the history of the Croatian state has such indignation as to the Croatian Parliament happened. The Croatian Parliament never allowed such humiliation, that someone would force him to call an extraordinary session for something and then discuss the law that had to be passed before we discussed the Act of Pattern. Because what if they had changed this law today, for example, that the colleagues of the ruling coalition did not like some provision, and we have already passed a pattern law here, which all those who pay the wages must apply already on January 2nd. It only speaks of our seriousness, it only speaks of how we create a positive entrepreneurial climate in the Republic of Croatia. And this is not any political debate, nor political debate, but an honest debate with the position of the one who has fought for years for this REGOS to get the status it is and for the Treasury and the Ministry of Finance to get what they need and that no one can joke as it happens today so that some ministers can't pay what they do to those who work in certain ministries. So I repeat, we will be restrained around this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63993	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club Dubravko Bilic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63994	Dear Vice President, Deputy Minister with an associate. Here's since this is the last point this year and that this is the last debate I'm going to be very brief. We have also recently discussed this adoption of this unique pattern of popularly called yupic among accountants that is also important to the adoption of this law and since clubs or parent bodies, the parent committees unanimously supported this law, and I will not repeat myself now and express everything we have heard so far. I can only hope that the REGOS, which so far generates some 50 million kunas of annual income, will actually generate revenue in full and will be able to be fully self-financed, but that depends, of course, on all of us, or on the state of the economy. So if I don't have a longer club, the SDP will support the adoption of this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63995	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63996	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, gentlemen of the ministry, colleagues and fellow MPs today relatively few, although they were expected to be in view of the subject that was announced by the full Parliament. The HDSB club in connection with the REGOS to say so or to shorten this topic, the central insurance register, since the SDP club has expressed its will to vote for the HDZ club against, abstention or against, and the HDSB club will be restrained. So they both made arguments, more HDZ club in terms of inaccuracy, irregularities or inconsistencies in expressing themselves. Therefore, here is Article 18 of the State Treasury Office’s State Treasury Office, which will deliver to REGOS by electronic means, and then says what: the contribution paid for pension insurance on the basis of individual capitalised savings, and the contributions paid for pension insurance on the basis of generation solidarity. We've heard about the Treasury from whoever's really professional about it, Mr. Shucker. Administrative oversight of the activities of the REGOS section shall be carried out by the Ministry of Pensions, and we see that it is also in the Management Board from the Ministry of Pension Insurance of Mr Miranda Mrsić's people means both administrative supervision and also in the bodies, so the Governing Council or the REGOS Committee. Although it would then be said that it might make sense to say that administrative supervision is carried out through the Ministry of Administration of REGOS, the supervision of the operations of REGOS in the part-line of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency is carried out in accordance with a special regulation. So, the regulations on HANFA, the Financial Services Supervisory Agency. About the four second pillar funds that exist and that we have knowledge of or through REGOS we can also find out about each of us personally who have a second pillar in insurance we've already heard about they're operating unequally to say profitablely all four. I'm not going to speak here on purpose the names of those funds so I don't advertise anyone special. Therefore, there are differences in the growth of these or the profitability of these funds. Sam REGOS is being set up, we know that before we adopted the JOP Act as it is already called, which we talked about and the same purpose as the OIB that we established several years ago so that the channels or data that are coming through the OIB and through JOP are being doubled, so that given all these I will not say the ambiguity, but rather a bit of doubt, and since the ruling majority has enough hands this time, the HDSB club will be restrained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63997	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote later. We'll stop working now. I'm setting a recess by 3:00, and then I'm calling for you to vote on the debated points. Thank you. It's 14, 10 o'clock.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-18-0.u63998	Final proposal of the Central Insurance Register Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 508. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 80 votes in favour and 32 votes have been abstentioned to the Security Central Register Act in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues close the 11th extraordinary session of the Croatian Parliament. Now is really an opportunity to congratulate all of you for a happy Christmas as a state holiday, and for those who celebrate Merry Christmas and as a religious church holiday. At the same time, I would like to make it more productive for you and the parliamentary representatives to be more productive next year, to be better, to bring more joy to the Parliament, but also more optimism among Croatian citizens and a better life. To have a good New Year's holiday and to see you at the new session next January. And finally, let's split up as men and as fellow MPs, so I invite you to a small house, a glass of champagne in front of the assembly. Thank you very much, everyone. Session closed in 15.07 hours.
