ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33048	I would like to thank the Honorable President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the animal protection law is further harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with relevant EU legislation. The Animal Protection Act regulates the responsibility, duties, obligations of natural and legal persons to protect animals on farms, during transport, during the conduct of experiments, slaughter and death, the state of animals in zoos, circuses, shops, pets and the protection of abandoned and lost animals. Further arrangements shall be made for administrative monitoring of animal protection reporting and administrative inspection. The most important issues covered by these amendments and amendments to the laws are: implementation of Directive 2010/63 of the EU on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The termology shall be amended in order to specify more precisely the specific concepts and legal framework for the authorisation procedure for carrying out animal experiments in relation to earlier provisions. For legal and natural persons who grow, supply, use animals for testing and educational purposes, to produce biological preparations and to work on organs, tissues and bodies for the purpose of killing animals. Introduces so-called. a three-way principle of replacement of replacements, rises in improvement, reduction in the use of alternative methods for which implementation is not required to use animals in experiments if this is not possible animal experiments should be carried out in such a way as to minimise animal suffering and, if this is not possible, the number of animals should be reduced to the minimum number necessary to ensure the appropriate results. Furthermore, this law prescribes additional obligations of the ethical commission arising from EU legislation. The Ethics Commission has also established a current law with the task of giving an opinion on ethics and animal protection in the procedures of the use of animals for experiments and for educational purposes. The additional costs of the work of the Ethics Committee shall be borne by the applicant for the approval of the experiment. Tests can only be carried out within the framework of the project. Before the start of the tests, the projects must be assessed and then, on the basis of an assessment or evaluation, they shall be granted approval by the competent authority to carry out the tests. Furthermore, in addition to the prohibition on the breeding of animals for the purposes of the production of fur that existed before in the law, the prohibition of trade in fur and fur products of seals, fur and fur products of dogs and cats, and fur and products of certain wild animals and animal species caught in irregular columns shall be governed by this law, in accordance with EU regulations. In addition to that proposed law, the notion of a domestic animal is clarified in order to highlight the difference between domestic animals in the territory of the Republic of Croatia and in other areas and all for the purpose of clearer interpretation of the legal provision prohibiting the keeping of wild animals in circuses and their appearance. It is further proposed to set up two committees within the existing Committee on Animal Protection, namely the Committee on Pets and the Committee on Farm Animals, given the large differences in specificities of the work of individual committees. It further clearly determines the competences of the implementation of the general acts of the body of units of local self-government relating to the conditions and manner of keeping pets, the control of their reproduction, the conditions and manner of keeping the dogs bound and the manner of handling abandoned, lost animals, and, above all, the communal directors, with an emphasis on the behaviour of veterinary inspectors prescribed by the Animal Protection Act and other acts in the veterinary field. Amendments and additions of criminal provisions shall also be made and shall be related to the conduct of counter-proposed amendments and additions to the law. In order to implement this law, it is not necessary to provide additional cash in the national budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33049	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Do the representatives of the Committee's working bodies want to present reports? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The debate starts with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and the Honorable Representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33050	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The question of how much we care about animals, how much do we even know what they're writing in the Animal Protection Act? How much do we care about protecting animals? What was most evident was the reaction of the great part of the media that surprised me to ask the minister if the breeders of the cattle provision on the possibility of movement were sticking to it? That was on the edge of humor and jokes. As far as a Zagreb Labourist is concerned, do cattle growers adhere to the provision on the possibility of moving? It concerns us because we ask those written questions to the ministers that we get from citizens because ministers don't communicate looks with citizens, they don't have time, sometimes they don't have nerves. And besides, these citizens, especially peasants who have imagined to live from their work and their own production, are very much something. Let the more lucrative business finally be accepted, and let them import. We are concerned about the question of the possibility of moving animals because you would not believe it makes it possible for animals to act and this is the Law on the Protection of Animals, which I believe is the most trampled law in Croatia. No human laws apply, let alone animal laws. The true moral test of mankind, the test which is the basis of everything else, is evident in relation to those who depend entirely on our mercy, which are animals, according to the great writer Milan Kundera. So the standard of humanity can also be animals, more specifically our relationship with them. Because who's cruel to animals can't be a good man. But I agree that it was necessary first to civilise man's relationship with man, now it is necessary to civilise man's relationship to nature and animals. We're still cruel to nature and animals. This, though lacking in relation to animals, is still unfair, insufficient human law should paint civilization's reach because the law prescribes the care of beings that are different from us. We're part of something a little more courteous in Europe, but only on paper. Practice is as usual in the process of breaking the law and these and hundreds of other laws. The Animal Protection Act is one in a series of non-implementation laws. I spoke to veterinarians who claim that there are cows in Croatia who have never seen the sun, they have hooves as big as skis because they never walked in the meadow. Those cows have been tied up in stables their whole lives. After all, how many times have you seen herds of fat healthy cattle past the road? Foreigners travelling to Croatia, for example farming, are wondering where your cattle are. From Zagreb to Osijek, you may see four cows throughout Slavonika, and several or several horses near Popovaca. We've been hiding our cattle until now, but soon we'll have nothing to hide. Who controls the conditions of keeping cattle on large farms? How many applications have been filed for violation of the Animal Protection Act in large animal conglomerates? The Animal Protection Act is sometimes applied in cases where someone finds a abused dog or cat and reports it neatly to the media in order to achieve a media effect. The halabuka has forced us to think that there is some animal protection law out there that is now in line with European norms, but the law does not improve. A minimum of met conditions is also sufficient. In the current law, it says that it is forbidden to train animals for fighting, it is forbidden to organise animal fights other than traditional bull fights, which are well described in the film "Sonja and Bull", it is forbidden to bet in animal fights, it is forbidden to organise dog races but only on hard bases. The legislator did not explain why the traditional bullfight left even the Spanish human, and the non-traditional struggle may not even be human. And that's why it can be illegal. It is forbidden to use wild animals for circuses and other plays, film and television shoots, for exhibitions, for competitions if animals are forced to act unnaturally or cause pain, suffering and fear in animals. Animal neglect is forbidden. The owner, beware the owner therefore the law will treat our society as a thing, must not leave the pet, pet or farmed wild animal. Although the penalties for all these violations are relatively large for legal persons as many as 100,000 kunas and for up to 15 thousand kunas. For example, the fighting of the cocks continues to be organised in Zagreb, dog fights continue to be thrown onto the roads outside the neighbor's door and animals are still being neglected without punishment and are being shown no mercy towards beings who depend on our mercy. And we bring these amendments to the Animal Protection Act because of the EU, we want to coordinate as we have been harmonising for a year and a few days at an accelerated pace, we want to align on paper, the paper will be European, the practice will be Balkan. And we could say that that's how legislators like to say a little liberalise the Animal Protection Act and at least suggest that we might be much better people tomorrow, better towards animals, and then towards ourselves towards humans. In Croatia it is still normal 24 hours a day to keep the dog on the chain for years. Which continues to allow dog races, which is why he hypocritically soft bases. Animal shelters are especially black or when we talk about extremes that are always taken care of by large human hearts, an incredible story of humanity. These amendments are only a mere copying of European regulations and directives. But to repeat, if we were to apply such a lack of law, we would be where and where better to society, even though it bears the E mark, European dualities should support such laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33051	Thank you, Your Honor. The replicas have been reported to your presentation, so we'll hear them now. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33052	Here's to the Minister's congratulations on the wedding. Dear colleague, we haven't seen him since he did it. Same as me for the second time, but good luck. Look, first of all, I agree with most of what you said, but this especially bothered me when you mentioned Slavonic, so you don't see any cow, not one horse, so I invite you to come to Djakovo, so we'll go to John's court of the state of the Lipicans, and you'll see that the Lipicans are mostly in the pastures, and the smaller part is in those stables. Also, breeders, milkers, so those who hold cows are mostly on the pasture. Although there are no large pastures along the 5C corridor itself, so you can't even see it. But there's that here in Zagreb, too. The attitude towards animals is also a matter of law, but it's also an individual thing. Well, look at my property card. I'm one of the few advocates who put pets in an estate card first of all wanting to show his attitude towards animals. But now let me count how many there really are would be a taking of time. But I absolutely agree that the attitude towards animals often also shows the attitude towards humans. If we could protect these unemployed and hire them then it would be quite good in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33053	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33054	Thank you very much. I'll commend you first because you haven't exceeded the first time. I join the cards because the SDPs all seem to be working twice, they're in power twice, I guess that's enough. I was talking about not being on the road, you can't see the cattle. Look, ride along, see when you drive to Austria and Slovenia along the road you see these pastures, see the attitude towards cattle, and you will see that it is a little different from ours. I was in Slavonia, I was convinced, I was on farms, and I saw how they treated cattle, and I don't think it was a good relationship. I even say when I asked the question, the minister caused a mockery in the media, and that says enough how big the Balkans are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33055	Thank you very much for your commendation. We weren't expecting it. Let's go with replica number two, the esteemed representative of Đurjica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33056	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague Vuksic. I'm just going to replicate on your line that this law says, and now I'm going to quote you that we should be much better people. No, there is no law that will make someone a better man than a law that will sanction what is bad, what a man does badly. Unfortunately, we're either human or we're bad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33057	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33058	One little correction at the beginning. I'm not Vukusic. I'm Vuksic. That's what everyone else says, so then, it's not even, I'm listening. I think I'll also be renamed Vukusic. It'll be a lot easier for me. First of all, I didn't think the law could make people better, and I agree completely with you that, you need to sanction when people don't behave according to the law. And that's exactly what I was talking about were high sentences. Have you ever heard or seen someone pay 100,000 kuna fines, legal person or natural person 15000 kuna maximum penalty when they did not apply to animals as determined by the law. We didn't see it, because it would certainly say it's someone. We only have the law because we have the law and we say here we are also part of Europe. Look how we have human law. The law describes well. I say that we ourselves need to be better people, and that relationship can be shown by being good to animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33059	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33060	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Vuksic, you have asked a good question about how much we care about animals with special regard to keeping cattle. And I can confirm from my personal experience because for years I have witnessed the maru of these people because I come from an environment truly in line with my position and in such a situation as it is, but also in immeasurable love, effort, and improvement of production and daily care. But one problem that happens and can illustrate how much the ministry and this government cares about the fact that in the last year more than 30,000 cows have ended up being forced into slaughter. That is enough to say, and in many EU countries, when it wants to buy such goods, it is a national treasure. And then you ask the key question about the peasant whether he can live off that production. He can't. My colleague can't, I'm not responsible. In addition to that, thousands of farms have been closed down. The decline in milk production, the decline in meat production and, of course, the lack of processing for our processing industry. And in the end, what happens? Keeping it either in one way or in the way you're talking about, there won't be any of those cows in this shape and shape, but some of them will come to our villages one day. Here's where someone used to grow cows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33061	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33062	Dear fellow Milinkovic, I can't understand this one sentence just by the way that it's forced slaughter, because I don't think cattle go to voluntary slaughter, because they still have no consciousness about it. Yeah, I agree, they're not all the same. There are also wonderful peasants who care and agree with you, don't care about the Ministry of Agriculture, don't care about the Government, don't have a good relationship with the peasants, don't have a good relationship with agriculture, and we'll certainly be addicted to food imports in ten years. Now we're importing 45% of the food, 10 years from now, we'll look like we'll be importing all the food, so unless something happens in the next few years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33063	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the club of representatives of the HNS and the respected representative of Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33064	Mr. President, Mr. Secretary with Associates. Here's what I'd like to do in front of the HNS club, the minister wishes for a successful marriage, and we'll talk about the gifts later. At first I would say that this law that probably won't cause great debate, about there is also a fellow forgiver here is a colleague who has arrived, congratulations and a colleague on a successful based marriage and a lot of success and happiness. Here, I would say here in front of the HNS club that we are convinced that this law will not cause great differences in the attitudes of all clubs because the aim of all of us is to provide such laws that will provide quality protection for the welfare of all animals. I would disagree with my colleague, Mr. Brank, who spoke very disastrously about the state of the animals, the way and the attitude. What my colleague mentioned is that I am convinced that these are individual cases and we cannot generalise for all those excellent pets lovers and quality breeders of domestic animals. He believes that the Republic of Croatia has a tradition of breeding and that the cattlemen and small animal lovers certainly know well and evaluate and take good care of their animals. And what my colleague used to say is, they're excessors and that's not the rule at all. I would also remind you that the applicable law adopted in 2006, which has been in place since 2007, has been a good articulation of interests and protection and that the law has long existed as a good law. Today, we are talking about a bill to bring the Law on Amendments and Animal Protection Supplements in line with the legal acts of the European Union into line. At a time when this law is in force, I can stress that the European Union has regulated this problem with several directives and several regulations very sensitive. This is important to regulate the responsibility and responsibilities of legal and natural persons in this law for the protection of animals, the protection of life, the health and welfare of animals. This law also speaks of the way animals are treated from the conditions necessary to protect animals, keep, grow, transport, perform experiments, slaughter, kill animals. Also about keeping animals in zoos and circuses as well as in performances and competitions of animals. Mostly this law includes a very wide range of regulation ways, but all for the benefit of animals. I would only mention one saying that how much a man can love animals with that same love can love people. So those people who don't have love for animals are both questionable love for people. So even from this relationship with animals, the quality of every man and his responsibilities to the world around him can be assessed. I would also like to commend this law in force that it was ahead of Directive 2010/63 of the EU which changes the terminology and process of obtaining and agreeing in animal attempts. The old law that is in force to this is already that time in our law was the Ethics Commission that spoke of these very purposes that we consider to be good. It is mainly said with this Directive that no experiment with domestic and wild animals can go into trial unless it has been approved by this Commission. This commission gives permission to legal and physical persons in breeding the use of laboratory and other animals for experiments. The use may only be granted for those trials which have passed this consent and which have been obtained. Also, the minister mentioned the 3R principle, including British scientists in 1959 said that this principle must be for animal welfare and protection, that scientific knowledge and scientific research are used not only from the European Union but from around the world to the use of animals in various experiments. Also, if these attempts do not have enough of that route, you have to go to the maximum number of animals and in all these experiments, to reduce the suffering of animals and to reduce the number of animals almost to a minimum. Also, this law and these directives speak of hunting, not allowed pillars, traps that are cruel in Europe, the EU is banned. I believe this should be accepted by the Republic of Croatia in any case, so this law accepts and imports of fur and the production of certain animal species originating in countries where they are hunted by traps or trap methods which are contrary to human international standards are also prohibited. Imports of skin products from seals' skins, also bans traffic and seal products. It is also a ban on the use of dog fur, cats because such a trade is not allowed in the EU area. This law also makes it more clear that the concept of domestic animals, wild animals and animals are precise. And this law suggests special protection of wild animals, that their conduct and performance are forbidden. What is also good in this new law that, with an ethical commission, this law also provides for the establishment of a Committee on Animal Protection, consisting of 2 under the board, one Committee on Pets, another Committee on Farm Animals. Also, this law provides, the Animal Protection Act provides that the competent authorities of the unit of local self-government, municipalities and cities in their territory may regulate the conditions of keeping pets of dogs, and the treatment of abandoned and lost animals. It also happens very often here in, especially in rural areas, probably in cities that in the time of seasonal vaccination of dog pets against rabies, that many owners of unconscious animals release, leave them abandoned but it is not out of love, it is primarily for inability for economic reasons, is it these persons, these owners cannot provide the necessary means for this very important veterinary measure. Here, jurisdiction and care for the implementation of the Animal Protection Act in units of local self-government are taken over by the officers, while the right authority over these have, over the protection of animals, veterinary inspectors. Also, this law, and in criminal provisions, is very clear and precisely precise with a rather high penalty, sanctions and what Đurdjica's colleague said that those who do not have love must sanction them in order to get on the right track. The HNS fully accepts this bill. Since we have a desire to make this law better, better HNS will send a number of amendments with the intention of making this law more quality and moving towards the EU by raising standards and protecting animals and raising concerns and protecting domestic animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33065	Thank you very much. We have reports of replicas. The first replica and respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33066	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, agreeing with you, colleague Mandic, when you say that Croatian cattlemen have a tradition and that they know. It is true that they have shown it for years and mainly in the last ten years when several thousand farms were restored, and the fair of modern built and milk production increased by almost 150 million liters. But you know what happens today, no matter how much love and everything, today they can't, they just can't because they can't, I personally know it and I witness every day that how many farms fail and how unfortunately animals end up on that forced slaughter, and forced slaughter happens when a cattleman can't or for economic reasons, economic reasons can't feed that cattle anymore and unfortunately with tears in his eyes is getting rid of that animal, and could give milk for years. And in vain there are so many of these laws among us, when it happens, because there is a saying in the peoples: "The sheep do not cry, but they are cut off so that they may happen.". So these cows, so that they could give next year, could give milk, but unfortunately, under these circumstances, it's not possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33067	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33068	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague, I purposely said this in my presentation to the club that the largest number of Croatian cattlemen know their jobs and that he has an exceptional love for this job that does very, very professionally. You've told me here, you've replicated my exposure, I believe you agree with me that the largest number of Croatian cattlemen is of quality and that they do a good job. Those in the milk business didn't just come out of love, so they came in, that's a certain business interest. Unfortunately, some in this business interest, do you have people who are more successful and who are less successful because of the lack of sufficient working surfaces, whether something else has failed, and in every job you have people who are more successful and who are less successful. But he would end up saying that Croatian cattlemen are professional, that they know how to do their jobs and that on the basis of the Excessus, we must not allow the creation of images of Croatian cattlemen to be inextricable, inhuman and not animal lovers. And I think that's where we agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33069	New replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33070	Dear fellow Mandic, since this is also an emergency law and a European law, I would suggest that I do not want to write amendments, but here in many EU countries we have reduced VAT on animal food. We are witnessing that we live in a time where many families do not have enough means to survive. We are also aware that many are forced, not just pets. I'm not going to get into what's going on in cattle, but if a lot of these guys leave, they're letting their pets out because they just don't have to feed those pets. Now I don't think, in that old custom, that dogs and cats and other pets are given bones or I don't know what, but if we really want to follow a step into Europe then it's every case and proper pet food, not to mention pythons and other exotic pets. If you take that one dose that is needed for a slightly larger dog of almost 11 kunas of better quality food and that snot somewhere around 8 kuna that comes also from abroad, I think that the ministry and the government should think carefully if this really harmonising with the EU that we have then and lower VAT rates on animal food, at least the 5% we should have introduced this one up to 1.7, and not 1.1. for humans so we have 5% on animal food. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33071	Thank you, both for your response to the replica, the esteemed representative Ivica Mandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33072	Thank you very much. My colleague Vinković, well in one part of your debate, may also agree with you, but in the part where the stray dogs and units of local self-government are touched, I think that we representatives and the ministry and the government should create another atmosphere to take care of stray dogs and abandoned animals not only to local self-government units, municipalities, cities, but to sensitise the public towards animal welfare associations. So that these associations with various projects can do asylums and with a little help from cities, we can provide these abandoned animals with more quality accommodation and quality care and eventually find new foster parents. I think that this law is primarily one civilizational reach and our society and our willingness to accept those laws that have been in the EU or in EU countries for over 90 years. I think there is fertile soil in Croatia because we are neither uneducated, inadequate and we are not sensitive to animals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33073	Thank you very much. It is up to the HDZ Representatives' Club and the respected representative Đurdjica Sumrak. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33074	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Your Honor, Mr. Minister with Associates, Dear colleagues and colleagues. Today, we have before us proposals for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act. I'd like to say next. As early as 1999, the Animal Welfare Act was passed in Croatia, and already then Croatia has set its course towards joining the EU. This animal welfare law defined the welfare of animals such as those involving five animal freedoms, which is freedom from hunger and thirst, freedom from stress, freedom from pain, injury and disease, freedom from expression of normal animal behavior and freedom from fear and anxiety. It is known that animal welfare has an increasing impact on the modern food chain in which consumers are concerned about the welfare of animals whose products are bought and consumed. Studies show that the issue of animal welfare is very important for European consumers and that European citizens show a strong commitment, ensuring the welfare of domestic animals. The activities of the European Commission in the field of animal protection and welfare shall begin with the recognition of the fact that animals are sensitive beings. The general objective of ensuring that animals do not suffer pain or suffering should be obliged by the owner or guardian of the animal to respect the minimum of good conditions. 2007 For years, the Law on the Protection of Animals has been adopted in Croatia, which has also incorporated the basic directives and regulations of the European Community relating to the greatest part to the harmonisation of the holding of farm animals, i.e. pigs, laying hens, chickens and other farm animals and keeping them and their conditions. Chapter 12 of which we have negotiated, of course, this chapter 12 has been successful and ended exclusively with the fact that we have then brought the legislation into line with EU legislation. Today, we are facing a law in which we are also implementing new directives, installing within this existing law, and according to these EU directives, imports of skin and products from the skin of youngsters, of certain types of seals are prohibited. I must stress that for at least ten years now, as far as I know in Croatia and in the city of Zagreb, no one is asking for any clothing from seal skin or any kind of seal, it is simply in philosophy but in our citizens and Croats so that it is unacceptable not only to wear and to be disgusted by the torture of such animals. It's also about dog skins and cat skins. However, it is good to put it into the law so that no one dares to do something. It's really not human, and I have to say it's not conscious of the human spirit. The same way they are incorporated here into laws and directives that speak of animals for experiments. In some discussions today, we have heard about what some laws mean, how many people will adhere to the law, I think that the consciousness of our citizens in Croatia may need to be further built. We will be able to build it more when we citizens of Croats and Croats in this beautiful Croatia will live in a way that we will not have to fight to collect our food for people, so I must also say animal food. What I wanted to say equally when it comes to farm animals or animals in rural areas, as a doctor of veterinary medicine, I was really lucky to work in the field and the fact, there was someone saying about the peasant his animal cow, horse, calf all that he had in his backyard all that he grew was treasure. And he tries to treat his mildness as they have taught him for generations, and that he must not suffer hunger or thirst, that he must keep himself clean. The only thing we had was a little problem, and that really one majority is the state under inappropriate conditions. They were dark stables, but there I must say they played a great role of fellow veterinarians on the ground who except for the treatment of animals doing and education of these peasants in relation to keeping animals because the animal that has good conditions then has and satisfying all the elements for peasants, which is that it gives a lot of milk, that it is quality that it can either serve or serve meat already depending on how it is grown. The second may be a problem, and it is related to Article 22 23, which is the units of local administrations and cities. So units of local administrations and cities are obliged to take care of abandoned dogs and cats exactly. But the thing is that all units of administrations and cities don't have the same budgets, and then they can't fight in the same way that animals don't regularly split into their own, so I'd say temporary holders aren't their pets, they're used to being told about fun when kids play or when dogs grow up, they get him on the road, they take him to the woods, and then they create packes that really make big problems in urban areas. One good thing that's been introduced, and that's with the vaccination that dogs have to and chip, so it's a lot easier to find such owners who dropped their dog somewhere in their space, they don't care about it anymore, and good people are expected to do something about that dog. Some units of local administrations and self-government, and I have to mention this city of Zagreb because at the beginning of my work in the office that was responsible for these jobs and worked with the Animal Protection Associations that had been enough, I have to say that these were women and men of Samaritans who were collecting these dogs, cats, feeding them, tearing them off their mouths, but they were working in this way and distracting the people or neighbors around them, so it was gradually being arranged. However, the city of Zagreb had a good budget and he could have done it. I must say and commend fellow veterinarians who lead asylum to animals or shelters that are indeed at one European level, are really taking care of all dogs, taking care of kittens, taking care of wild animals. What I would say is that both this law and every animal protection law are also laws on the protection of nature and let's say the laws on light pollution because we can also say that animals from their natural habitats are driven in just one way, and that's by making noise in those natural habitats of animals, or we had last year or before last year I think about light pollution when animals simply or let's say bats or some other who live at night can no longer recognize the day of the night. We will support this law at the HDZ Club because any improvement in any law is really good and indeed all criminal provisions I would say and a new Penal Code adopted in 2013. This year, he prescribes prison sentences of up to two years for the torture and death of animals and for the taking of animals to the abuser. And it's very good that it's also entered the Penal Code. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33075	Thank you, too, Your Honor. Now it's the replicas. Let's get this straight. The first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33076	Dear colleagues, here I am pleased with what you have said about the units of local self-government because indeed many are unable to care, do not have enough resources not only to provide for but also asylum. But here I repeat this request on behalf of the HDSSB Club to really reduce VAT on animal food. I don't just mean dogs and cats. But if we take all the things that an ordinary citizen who is having a hard time putting an end to the end today need to be chipped, injected, vaccinated, I don't know what, so here's to that food, then it's visible that he might even be forced to let him go free and leave him to his own fate. Otherwise we Slavons are known as great animal lovers. Here's the other day Mata was on Yosawa and caught the carp. He's back home, he says, "Cathy, here, cook him up, load the fire and bake him." He says Kata Mati doesn't have any wood, we don't have any money, we didn't buy any wood. So he says turn on the gas well and bake the carp. He says we don't even have gas shut us down. So he says nothing then turns on the electric stove and bake it. Well, he says we don't even have electricity. And Mata the Furious takes the carp and takes it back to Josava. When one of Josava pops up and says, "Linic, cheers Linic!"
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33077	A reply to the replica of Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33078	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Vinkovic, this is one unfortunately true joke, black humor, but true. That's sad. I'd like to, as I said in my debate, my colleague Linic, to talk about animal protection. Many have told me can't you talk about the protection of people, those homeless people, the establishment of new soup kitchens, the establishment of shelters for these new people, and the establishment of food to be cheaper. So, an association that will fight for cheaper food for people who are really on the verge of poverty today in Croatia. However, none of these people said this law should be passed. You should respect those animals, too. And no matter how poor and poor that poor man who wanders the city of Zagreb always has at least one dog.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33079	Thank you very much. Now a little debate within the club. The following three replicas are respected representative Branko Juričev-Martinchev.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33080	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, you colleagues said units of local self-government are obliged to take care of abandoned animals and protect animals. I wonder who will protect the cities and municipalities, who will protect our calculations from abandoned animals and the damages that are committed. Leaders wear flower city status for a reason. You know how much damage there is when in the morning abandoned dogs are hatched in beautiful flower fields where I already don't know how many hundreds and thousands of kunas have been invested in seedlings, watering, and the law requires that only hunting, euthanasia can be done by registered companies holding a monopoly in Croatia. For those who do not know one hunt, care and euthanasia per dog comes about 3500 kuna. I wonder who will protect the cities and the municipalities. Or every new law makes new obligations to local self-government units.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33081	And a reply to the replica of the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33082	My dear mayor and present and safe and future. I recognize the problem that cities and local self-government have. I was just in my discussion about it and I was saying that budgets are the problem. But what's good is copying those same dog animals that are simply in that chip, that chip code talks about the owner. So, communal monks, I assume you have, so when that dog gets caught, then the damage should be paid by the owner who simply kicked that dog out. I know it's easy to theorize, but that practice may be different in some cities and municipalities. And I hope the situation improves, so here's really going to be able to collect fines from the irresponsible owners.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33083	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33084	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, fellow Sumrak, it's not my intention now because we're from the same club to talk a little bit, we're talking, but it's my intention to really share the satisfaction of how you talked about animal welfare, and especially in the part where you talked to how much mara and love our peasant cares about his treasure, and in that part, so freedom against hunger and thirst as you said if you correct me well please. But unfortunately, under the present circumstances, it is not possible. Unfortunately, here we witnessed last year sushi, so how much support they got for the drought. And these other supports don't come and don't come. And only the illustration is to say that a liter of milk gets two kunas, and a kilo of mixture costs three kunas, a kilo of mixture. And what's going on? Of course, he cannot feed that animal, the treasure he cares about and comes up with really the most difficult circumstances when he has to end up in a forced slaughter. And worse, so close that farm of yours. And then the last thing to end up at that employment office and increase this army of unemployed people who God knows where they'll end up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33085	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica of the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33086	Thank you very much, Mr. President. My colleague Milinkovic agrees with you completely, but simply the peasant you were talking about, indeed, a peasant who lives hard today in Croatia is not guilty of this condition and is not guilty of not having any food and is not guilty of this aflatoxin that was in the food, because when it was dry, they did not react well, and we know in what conditions in reality it happens that such a mycotoxin is found in food. But that's the food that probably came from imports and there's no peasant money, if he had better support, if we had an understanding he probably wouldn't have reached for something else. However, this law must exist, we must support it because indeed, protection, but it is supported by peasants instinctively, they don't need for his cow and horse law not to beat him, starve him, and I don't know, they don't need it. This is more or less done, these supplements were made for animals experimental, but more or less related to pets, that animal protection law and welfare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33087	Thank you very much. And another replica and respected representative of Branko Box. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33088	I thank you, Mr. President. So, fellow Members, you mentioned the role of the local self-government units of how we need to take care of abandoned dogs and cats, right? I'm going to tell you my experience, I've been so naive, so I went to law enforcement so far, so I built an improvised asylum, hired an employee and collected dogs and cats. Since we have a Benkovec cattle fair every 10th of the month, and eventually what happens, right? An irresponsible individual puts a puppy into asylum, dogs tear apart a puppy, and he probably gives himself the right to share it with the media and I had it, or I'm stuck simply on the cross as an irresponsible man who doesn't want to deal with and take care of abandoned animals. What's the point of the whole story? Do you enforce the law or not implement the law? So we in Dalmatia have one single company, or one asylum, that has all the legal conditions. And what my colleague Branka mentioned was the price of a dog or a cat to be brought to asylum. So we're simply in the units of local self-government being put in a position that we can't do the basic things that we exist for, that we're set by law, and on the other hand you see every day what new obligations we get on the bed. We just can't support it financially anymore, that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33089	A reply to the replica of Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33090	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague of the Box, I'm sure you and your colleague Branka have a lot of empathy for both humans and animals, as well as for pets. And I'm aware, and that's exactly what I was saying in the debate, I'm aware of just the problems that differ from city and municipality, from budget to budget, i.e. problem. I'm sorry that they put you on a pillar of shame, and you weren't really guilty of anything, but that's when people are used, that's how animals are meant to get revenge on someone else, and it's good intentions and good things they want to humiliate. However, here I say will surely come when this government either leaves or finally realizes something that can no longer be lived, there will come good times for local administration and will be able to co-finance and chips so the owner will be able to collect the damages.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33091	Thank you very much. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. There is a SDP club in the Croatian Parliament and a respected representative, Željko Kolar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33092	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here, at the beginning of the debate, I congratulate my colleague, Sandra, and my colleague, the minister, to enter the port of matrimony, and we wish you good luck. Greetings to all animal friends wherever they may be. The attitude towards animals is a civil question, and how much society is developed is also the attitude towards animals, at least that's what they say. Others say that human rights are being violated worldwide, so who cares about animals and nature. But of course it shouldn't be like that, and I hope that's not the case. We have before us a proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act with the final proposal for a law. This legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation, harmonising with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe with two directives and five regulations. In order to comply with the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the new Directive, the terminology and legal framework of the authorisation procedure for carrying out animal experiments in relation to earlier provisions is amended. In accordance with the requirements and new Directives of legal and natural persons dealing with cultivation, procurement and use of laboratory and other experimental animals, they will have to make changes in their procedures, the experiments can only be carried out within the framework of the project. Thus, the 3R principle is introduced which encourages the use of alternative methods for which the animals are not to be used in experiments, and if this is not possible, the number of animals should be reduced to the minimum possible extent. It also extends the competence of the ethical commission that already exists, whose task is to give an opinion on the issues of ethics and animal protection in the procedures of the use of animals in experiments and for educational purposes. It is also prohibited to introduce into the Republic of Croatia furs and products derived from certain wild animals caught in columns as well as to prohibit the placing on the market of dog and cat fur and products containing dog and cat fur. It is, of course, unacceptable practice for us in Croatia to use dog and cat fur because they are our pets. In fact, some of them are family members, and we treat them that way and that's, of course, something that I hope doesn't even exist in the Republic of Croatia. Except for the purpose of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the EU proposed amendments and additions, it aims to ensure a clearer interpretation of legal provisions such as domestic animals and wild animals, since in Croatia, wild animals are something other than Africa and other countries. It is also proposed to amend the article establishing a Commission on Animal Protection in a way that sets up two committees of the same commission and that for pets and farm animals, given that, due to the great diversity of the area, the same members of the Commission would not be able to carry out the tasks of certain proposed amendments and additions to the law, and we believe that this is good. The animal protection law also gives the competent authorities of municipalities and cities the opportunity to regulate the conditions of keeping pets in their territory. I'm the mayor, and I know exactly what that means. And some colleagues mentioned the specific problems in local self-government units. However, I think that there is a conscience for individuals in the first place. And we're even on the Internet every week repeating a call to pet owners not to let them walk freely around town so that we don't have to, unfortunately, to get those dogs out of the city through a contract that we have with the veterinary service. And then when that happens, of course, if it's not a common procedure, then of course we bring those people back to the animal. Unfortunately, there are those irresponsible individuals who actually lead to the fact that they end up without all that pet. There was talk of law enforcement, whether the law is implemented or not? We here in the Parliament here make a law with the purpose of the laws being enforced. We have to appeal, we have to run a public campaign so that the laws are implemented, the campaign constantly warns about the attitude towards animals and the work of its own. The SDP club will support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33093	Let's write down the lines first so we don't skip. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33094	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's to a little bit, so it doesn't turn out that we're the only ones inside our club replicating. Well, here's my colleague Kolara. I'll sort of agree with him in one piece. To agree with that part where he greets all animal friends, absolutely and I agree but this one and I welcome them and this one but not enough colleagues, of course all on greetings. Of course, it should be done in that sense. Now, of course, you think you're gonna get this one back on cattle and dairy, I won't do it this time. I won't do it this time even though I repeat that the situation in livestock and dairy is said to be catastrophic. But I believe you've agreed well on small animals as well. And I'm a fan, and I hold on to all the principles of my haskie, according to all the principles of those who, of course, exercise conscience and responsibility. Of course, we witness in many cases that this conscience is not at the highest level and that these animals are abandoned, many enter such a job and then leave it on the street and, of course, end up the way you said. In that sense, I believe that this responsibility should certainly be encouraged at all levels and advocating conscience, of course, at all levels regarding animal protection, so from those small ones, of course, the greatest ones. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33095	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33096	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's my colleague, I'm pleased that you agree with everything I've said. Well, I don't even know what this replica needed, except in that part of it, you're bound to do what you do all the time and I don't think there's really any need for it, and that we should really learn in this House when we have a certain law in front of us that we're dealing with that law and not try to introduce it from 41 or 45. Well, then all in all order is what's on our souls without actually discussing the fundamental law and the act that stands before us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33097	Thank you very much. The next replica and Shimo Djurdjevic, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33098	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Since this morning, I've been closely following up on all the discussions and replicas that happened here, but no one's mentioned one thing that matters to me yet, and that's that we're now about building a farm and keeping cattle in such a way that we're doing an injustice to animals because they don't have room to walk around. And more importantly, I think there are species and breeds of animals that can spend six or more months out in the pastures mostly by the rivers, by the woods. However, Croatian forests, Croatia's waters do not allow them to pass in these areas. I have an appeal from my county, from the Gradiška area along the Sava River to approve the pasture that these areas of Croatian waters from the Croatian forests do not heal into schikars and it would be good for peasants to be able to pass mainly when it comes to cow-body systems that can spend the whole winter with certain conditions and diets outside. I think even if it was allowed to do so, the peasants would benefit, and they would also protect the animals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33099	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33100	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, a colleague just used a replica of me to actually ask the minister or to draw attention to the problem that exists in his county. I saw the minister write it down so you used your replica well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33101	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33102	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's colleague Kolar you mentioned local self-government and you mentioned a model to use and that's an action through citizens' conscience. Well, that would be wonderful if it were possible to implement it even though it is a nice process to do but definitely only the right laws and you mentioned the enforceability of the law, Croatian laws unfortunately almost none as soon as it is adopted is quite feasible, it will not mean solving such actions although they are welcome and desirable but in general only repression and enabling officials to act can solve the matter. And these are exactly the things that need to be resolved at the level of local self-government, you know the same thing, where communal monks would have to have the authority to legitimize, that they could look for data, that they could make a record to that dog owner or some other pet he's walking around or somewhere on the ground, or that he could go into the yard so he could legitimize the owner and report it so we could call animal abuse. That's the part we're missing. And it all basically comes down to man and his relationship to everything. So when you mention the protection committees that you praise, I also commend it, I personally have a lot of animals and I love animals and I care about them, but I think we're slowly out of line with the committees, and we haven't yet established the most needed commission, and that should be the Commission for the Protection of Citizens. They should finally be protected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33103	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33104	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Hrg, for me is education and education of people always ahead of repression, always. With repression you can currently solve something, education, education permanently. And that's something we just have to insist on. Of course we have problems in local self-government units, given that they are bigger or smaller, we have bigger budgets or smaller budgets. However, the communal monks are not so helpless. They have their tools, and all they have to do is give them the freedom to work. Because you know the problem is when some people think they can break the law and let their pets walk the city and make a mess, then when they need to be picked up, then don't let her have it from our prominent citizens. That's the problem, and we just can't afford it. So it has to be the same relationship with everyone. And what we're trying to communicate with people all the time is not just in this case, we're trying to keep communicating with people and constantly warning them about those things that we don't think are good enough to make life in such a small town where I've been a good mayor to everyone. So a few years ago, you couldn't see anyone walking around with a pet and having a bag with them, and today it's actually almost a common thing. Therefore, education and education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33105	After these replicas I can't help wondering if the Animal Protection Act is for animal welfare or for the benefit of humans? This should be answered not by me but by the citizens of Croatia. Okay. We're continuing the debate. It is now the turn of the HDSSB club and the esteemed representative Igor Cešek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33106	Dear President, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. First of all, I also join the congratulations of the minister and his chosen one. In front of us is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act, with the Final Proposal for the Law. We at the HDSSB support the adoption of such a law as would support any law in which people's well-being and the protection of human dignity are concerned. That is how we support this bill of law regarding the welfare of animals. And this is one of the European laws where our legislation is in line with EU regulations. In particular, the Animal Protection Act is in line with Directive 2010/63 of the EU where legal or natural persons dealing with or raising laboratory animals will have to try to make changes in their procedures. Thus, before carrying out the attempts, they will have to design a project that will assess the Ethics Commission and grant approval for the continuation of the procedure. The applicant considers that the Ethics Committee will be more frequent and the costs of the commission's work will be paid by the applicant for the conduct of the trials. Furthermore, the draft law prohibits the use of columns which are, in any case, commendable, as also prohibits imports into the Republic of Croatia of products made from the skin of minors of certain types of seals and imports of fur and other products of wild animals caught in columns. The only thing that comes to me is the question of how a person who conducts surveillance on the import of fur will know that this animal is caught with a column or a person who, for example, wears fur, and by the way, I believe that they will be more and more because we have abolished the luxury tax and, by the way, the fur tax. We come up with articles on domestic animals where the concept of domestic animals is more clearly defined, which I would disagree with because the Animal Protection Act prohibits the keeping of wild animals and circuses, and by defining the concept of wild animals, it determines which animals they are, and I agree with that list, but I see no reason now to prohibit performances in circus plays of camels and rays because we know that in certain cultures of the world they are still domestic animals. And this law suggests that domestic animals are the only animals domesticated and domesticated in the Republic of Croatia. This proposal also amends the article relating to the Committee on Animal Protection by setting up two committees of the Committee on Pets and the Committee on Farm Animals. The protection of farm animals will be very soon if we want the European Union's financial assistance to shine with full glare because the European Union has the right criteria for how housing, or animal farming farms, must look and what criteria they must meet, and this applies to the appearance of an object, height, transparency, size of the living space of an animal. I thought that the work of the board should also include a point of protection for people from wild animals, and I'll tell you what we really think. In recent years, we have witnessed the reproduction and creation of habitats for us of unusual species of animals. It is obvious that the extremely warm or better termed hot summer has caused the addition of a list of wild animals, and in this case, primarily children of dangerous animals, such as red snakes, to live in this case. Here's the way I'm asking everyone relevant at the state level and associations to deal with this problem. The fox habitats are long ago near the houses. How to object and call upon the order of a man who kills a fox in his backyard while it poses a threat to his children? Of course, the fox enters the courtyards of houses primarily because of the poultry and has not had the number of cases when children return from school during the winter months after dark, and on their doorstep they see the fox. There are among other things, the kuna and the weasels. Why are we saying that? Mostly for reasons to point out associations dealing with animal protection and this problem because the inhabitants of these small towns and suburban settlements are powerless. Chemical agents that play a role in the rejection of such animals lose their role and show no reaction to them, and hunters are forbidden to hunt such animals in populated areas. According to this law, the competent authorities of municipalities or cities are given the possibility to regulate in their territory the conditions of keeping pets, the way in which they are reproduced, the conditions and the manner in which they are held by their dogs and the way in which they are treated by abandoned and lost animals. I quote: "That's how it was done because of the huge differences in the way animals are kept in rural areas, from the way they're kept in cities. The general acts of the bodies of the local self-government units shall also determine the supervision of their implementation and, above all, the communal directors." The proposed amendments and additions wish to clearly determine the jurisdiction over the implementation of the general acts referred to in Article 58. Item 4. The Animal Protection Act and to stress that the conduct of veterinary inspectors is prescribed by the Animal Protection Act and other acts in the veterinary field. The biggest problem with the protection of animals in units of local self-government that do not have a favourable financial status, which is unfortunately a lot, is that they cannot adequately take care of abandoned animals because of the fact that in many places there are neither asylum for abandoned animals nor people who will see such animals. Unfortunately, because of the extremely low standard of citizens every year, at this very time the dog vaccination takes place, we have witnessed an increase in the number of stray dogs in the streets that their owners allow to move freely because they do not have the financial means to pay for the vaccination. Such stray dogs often become aggressive because of food shortages and pose a great danger to humans especially to children. But as I said before, in small communities, no one takes care of such dogs except a few volunteers if they have them or conscientious veterinarians. I believe that the abused animals there are, we can see in the media every day brutal ways of experiencing animals whether it's pets or animals that are used to conduct experiments. And I support everything that this Animal Protection Act proposes. I repeat, it is my intention to point out a very serious problem, which is the uncontrolled reproduction of wild animals and pests that are dangerous to human health. I also want to point out the problem of abandoned stray animals and I appeal that state institutions also engage in solving these problems because the poor local self-government is powerless without the help of the state. To refer to my colleague Vinkovic, who practically expressed the club's views on reducing the VAT rate to animal food. I support absolutely, and the HDSSB club advocates reducing VAT rates to animal food but also reducing VAT to all re-promatter related to agricultural production. In the hope that the proposer will consider the facts presented in the future and move to address these problems, the HDSB club will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33107	Thank you, Your Honor. There is a replica and a respected representative, Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33108	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, here's a colleague of Czechs for a short while, so this debate has shown that I really need this under this law, and you debated that, of course, in this Animal Law, it's certain that people play a significant role and that it's simply unimaginable to one another even though it's good to remind maybe in this place the one known by General De Gaulle who said the more I know people the more I love my dog. But I want to say the other thing that prompted me to the replica, and where you were talking about wild animals and uncontrollably this reproduction and, of course, the damage to the crops of our peasants. Well, a similar situation is happening in the county where I come from every day, of course, our farmers, with these difficulties that they face, so what I was talking about earlier, I won't do it again, but it does seem a lot of damage. And in that sense, certain initiatives have been launched, so to increase this hunting economic base. However, there is no answer. And so here's why maybe this is an opportunity and a place to point out that, of course, to our farmers, under all these circumstances, it also makes additional damage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33109	Thank you very much. Replicate reply to the esteemed representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33110	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. And here I join this problem, because right at the foot of the Papuka in that part of the people who are dealing with war culture whether it's corn they have extremely big damage from wild pigs. However, very little is done to prevent these damages that are, for example, huge. I can make 80% of the contributions, and up to 80% of the contributions, and unfortunately no one is helping these people. Therefore, there is a urgent need for a reaction by either the ministry or the competent state institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33111	Thank you very much. We move to an individual debate of representatives in the Croatian Parliament for 10 minutes. It's the Honorable representative of the Dunja Spoljar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33112	Thank you, Mr. President, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. Let us remember together in an action to expose the illegal and unethical treatment of animals in the famous Bigl affair on 21 July 2005 from the Faculty of Veterinary Medicine in Zagreb, the domestic dogs of the Bigl breed were also released. 32 of them, 22 of them had broken bones. The case was extremely media-exposed. The public supported the release of dogs. The Animal Protection Association has filed a report. And what happened? Nothing. Responsible persons not only did they not suffer the consequences but still work with animals. What has changed since then in Croatia regarding animal experiments. Since 2007, the Animal Protection Act has been in force, which provides for decisions on the authorisation of animal testing, the authorisation of the use of animals for the production of biological preparations, as well as a solution approving the use of a larger number of animals, changes in animal species or changes in approved trials and experimental procedures by the competent authority with the opinion of the Ethics Committee. The still in force 2007 law stipulates that the Ethics Commission gives an opinion on the issues of ethics and animal protection in the procedures of the use of animals in experiments, and for educational purposes, to propose criteria and to give an opinion to the competent authority in the process of issuing an authorisation to carry out experiments. Nevertheless, the Ethics Commission did not work. The Beagles were rescued in 2005. But were countless other animals hidden from the labs saved and still left even today with painful experiments and deaths. Every day more than a million animals are used for experiments and almost always these experiments are secrets without distinction whether they are conducted in a private or state laboratory. Professional magazines publish the results of the only successful but then cover up methods. Thus, a regular use of some in a cellophanic term, such as model research, is regularly used for cutting into live or vision. It is doubtless that animal experiments have enabled extremely important achievements in medicine such as the discovery of vaccines against the cause of polio, diphtheria, cartilage, modern anaesthesiology, organ transplants, and various modern diagnostic therapeutic and surgical procedures. We all admit it or we're not afraid of disease. It is so reasonable to support what is a guarantee of human health, but experiments on animals are not the only way forward in medicine. I therefore welcome this proposal to amend the Animal Protection Act, as it proposes to amend the procedure for legal and physical persons dealing with cultivation, procurement and use of laboratory and other experimental animals. The harmonisation of laws with EU directives determines that trials will only be possible within the framework of projects and those who are positively assessed, and this assessment will be given by the already existing Ethics Commission. The proposal for a law states that during procedures carried out on animals during scientific research, it is not only moral but also legal persons responsible for planning and conducting experiments as well as direct researchers to ask themselves these questions before and during attempts. First, what is the purpose of research and whether the potential scientific benefits of the results obtained are caused by the discomfort and suffering of animals? Is it possible to apply an appropriate model replacement, i.e. replacomant? Is it possible to rationalize and reduce the number of animals in the experiment, or redaction? Is it possible to perfect an experimental model, or refeining? These principles are known as the so-called So-called So-called "Charlie". 3R model, i.e. replacomant model replacement, redaction reduction in the number of animals and refeinment improvement in the model whose implementation and adherence are prescribed by different international declarations of ethics attempts on laboratory animals. Adhering to the 3R model principle during planning and conducting animal experiments contributes significantly to the moral and scientific quality of research. The 3R model receives a legal framework through this bill in Croatia. But we also expect strict control of his application. Let us not forget when discussing and adopting this law. Anyone who has acquired the habit of looking at the life of any living being as worthless in danger is in the idea that human lives are also worthless that he wrote a great humanist Dr. Albert Schweitzer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33113	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It is up to the honourable representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. As the proposal for a Law amending the laws and additions of the Animal Protection Act is said to be the harmonisation of the law with EU legislation. The minister also spoke of the details himself, on behalf of the HNS Liberal Democrats club, said counterpart Mandic. But it is important to speak except in the economic crisis and the crisis in society and about us, about us as humans, about us as individuals living in a community with other individuals and individuals. It is important to talk about us and our efforts to live in an orderly society, in a society where we can realize our personal talents and achieve our ambitions. We are all born, not by our own free will, as individuals and individuals with the right to life, the right to security, the right to freedom and the right to happiness. As adult individuals, or individuals, we have voluntarily decided that we want to live in an orderly community and that is what we have founded the state for. She, the state, is here to ensure our safety, to protect us from ourselves and from outside threats. The state is tasked with providing us with an equal legal framework in which we are all equally legally fulfilling our wishes and our ambitions according to our personalities, talents, abilities, and within the framework of the legal order. The constitution has determined that we want a social state as well. In a developed world, so-called Western civilizations are the most modern, the most advanced countries in whose circle we are soon to enter fully shows the highest levels of humanity and sensitivity to any suffering. Modern societies, apart from suffering, are increasingly understanding animal suffering. Modern societies establish animal rights and protect them by legal regulations, thank God and Croatia is such a society. Mahatma Gandhi wrote: "The majority, size and moral progress of a people will be measured by how they treat animals.". In today's world, we are increasingly approaching the ideals of living things, of all living things. Still in the collective consciousness of all nations and states, the opinion of the necessary breeding of animals for food is prevailing, and this will rarely be denied by the state for the longer term. However, strict rules are laid down on how to kill these animals by direct provisions, by technical precise instructions and on how to cultivate and how to kill animals for human consumption in order to minimise the suffering of these animals. There are growing restrictions, breeding animals for fur or skin, and there are societies becoming more conscious. Society today condemns, states ban various experiments on animals, exploitation of circus animals, maximum humanization of zoos. Pets become family members, veterinarians become family doctors. The awareness of rights and humane relations against animals is growing. It is true that somewhere someone wrote that our descendants in the distant future will wonder and look at our age as a time of carelessness for nature and the environment and as a period of cruelty against animals, and it will likely be difficult for them to understand that we have been so unreasonable compared to the natural environment and so inhumane in relation to animals. Humanity is a generally accepted and used position to which individual individuals act, such as happiness and the well-being of individuals and society, respect for dignity, identity and life of man, human development, allow for the development of dignity and freedom of people in society. Philosophers of humanism often debated the desirable qualities of humanity, especially the subject of what makes a man human or what kind of man he should be. The main goal of humanism was peaceful, tolerated, and cultured treatment among people. Johann Gottfried Herder felt that mankind was only partially, humanity was only partially innate and that it had yet to develop after birth. According to one theory, man can reduce or increase his position of humanity according to his works. Work that increases humanity contains good goals such as kindness, goodness, humanity, mercy, and compassion. The theory of humanity has also defined unwanted behavior called inhumanity. Philosopher Ciceron asked the question of what makes a man a man, and he answered to all of us: "A man who has no interest in other people is not human, he is inhuman.". According to the same reasoning, individuals can become human or inhuman by means of good or bad deeds. Although according to some definitions, humanity is divided, defined as the moral behavior of a person in accordance with the ethical values set in a particular community, it often happens that when a community is radicalized, these individuals oppose the aggression that is imposed upon them. The principle of humanity, relating to the equality of all people regardless of origin or sex, the dignity of people and pacifism, also contains tolerance and respect for all persons and their beliefs, and in some ways and respect for animals and nature in general. Humanity is often associated with spirituality. Humanity is the basis for human rights and in most democratic states of the world that slowly develops through history, a harsh violation of human rights during war, dictatorship or exploitation of a nation represents when a crime against humanity. Ted Rigelton has developed a theory that evil in humans is somebody else's, but it's also a human battle against evil. In fact, every evil lasts and may last for a shorter or longer period, but it is human nature to recognize evil and to fight evil and to turn the fight against evil often from an individual or a smaller group into the fight of the entire society against evil until a certain evil is won. Good, that is, humanity always wins because with reason it is stronger than evil. Mankind is particularly manifested in relation to the weaker and the powerless. Animals are completely powerless compared to humans, and they are in the cruel power of men. People are increasingly aware that cruelty against animals is evil and are increasingly aware of their animal protection obligations. That is why laws are passed that determine a more humane attitude towards animals and protect animal rights. These laws, except that they make us more human in this case, make us human.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33115	Thank you very much. And finally a respected representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33116	Thank you, Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the Honorable Minister, the Government's representatives. At the very beginning of the presentation on the amendment and supplementation laws of the Animal Protection Act, I would like to say that I am disappointed with this proposal and consider it a degradation compared to the applicable law, a law which, instead of going towards increasing animal rights, reduces that right. It is positive that the draft law prohibits imports of skin and skin products from youngsters of certain seals, the use of columns, and the introduction of fur and products derived from certain wild animals of caught traps and products of dog and cat fur. It is a positive complement to the concept of domestic animals, to prevent the attempt to manipulate circuses with animals that are not domesticated in Croatia as domestic animals, and there is a more or less end to positive changes. For years I have been successfully working with the Animal Friends Association and sharing their dissatisfaction with the text of this law. Although the reason for this law is to be brought into line with the acquis, which, due to the declared European policy on animal rights issues, should unfortunately lead to an increase in the scope of animal rights, these rights are being reduced in certain respects. I remind the representatives of the agriculture ministry that in Article 13 of the consolidated version of the EU Treaty, the EU's operating contract states that animals are sensitive beings which are making the Union and the Member States pay full attention to the requirements for well-being. Both Directive 210/63 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes states that animals have an intrinsic value to be respected. There is also ethical concern of the general public regarding the use of animals in procedures. Therefore, animals should always be treated as conscious creatures. Furthermore, it is extremely important to stress that Article 2. Directive 63/210 concerning stricter national measures provides that Member States may, subject to the general rules laid down in the EU operating contract, retain provisions in force on 9 November 2010 aimed at ensuring the wider protection of animals entering the framework of this Directive from those contained in this Directive. Before 1 January 2013, Member States should inform the Commission of such national provisions. The Commission will draw attention to them from other Member States. The Directive also states that animal attitudes also depend on national perceptions, and some Member States require that they keep more broad rules regarding animal welfare than those agreed at Union level. In the interest of animals and provided that this does not affect the functioning of the internal market, it is necessary to allow Member States certain flexibility on the retention of national rules aimed at the wider protection of animals to the extent that they comply with the EU's functioning contract. I therefore believe that Animal Friends is right when they ask for amendments to animal protection laws to allow for the wider protection of animals used for experiments and as defined in Article 23. The Act on the Protection of Animals against the One defined by the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. Unfortunately, I must conclude that unlike the advanced provisions of the new Penal Code, the bill has missed an opportunity to improve animal protection in Croatia. The biggest losers in the changes are animals used in experiments, although the conditions of experimentation are defined in more detail. The ministry did not accept the argument of Animal Friends that the scientific community in planning attempts should take into account all available data obtained in attempts not only in the EU to avoid duplication of animal trials and unnecessary suffering. Although animal experiments have been banned so far for research and development of chemicals for the washing and disinfection of objects of general use, drugs and general effects of radiation, the law’s exclusion is now legalised as being devastating. I am particularly sorry that the ministry did not abolish or ban the so-called traditional bull competitions that I warned about a few months ago and in a written parliamentary issue and received an unusual answer that it was a cultural tradition which is pure fiction because in our culture there is no tradition of bull fighting. And because of this absurd provision that traditional bull fights, though, are located in the Dinar region today, bull fights are held even in Vrbovac, where they certainly have a two-year-old tradition. Amendments to the law also define the ritual slaughter carried out in accordance with the provisions of the religious communities by cutting the animal's neck in full consciousness by bleeding without prior deception, and define and crushing unwanted male chickens in the production of eggs for the purpose of removing dry one-day chickens and embryos in the eggs. I don't know what it's like to you, but it seems to me like a completely unnecessary cruelty that I can't justify by any religious or in the event of chickens being crushed by economic reasons. Animal Friends has been fighting for years for amendments to the legal provisions to protect animals and not the desire to profit individuals, interest groups. But most of the proposals come up with the ministry's refusal. As a result, I agree with Animal Friends that the bill is specific because it protects the economic and other interests of people and that animals are protected in frameworks that do not endanger these interests which are wrong. And at the very end of the debate, I would like to say that I am going to submit this proposal to the amendment and I call on the proposer of the Ministry of Agriculture to consider this amendment as well as to consider amendments to the club of representatives and representatives of the CNS which I consider to be of quality and that the ministry should accept them as well as this amendment, and in that case I will support this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33117	Thank you very much. Replications have been reported to your presentation. The first replica and respected representative Marin Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33118	Well, fellow Mirellas, you have indeed cited some drastic examples of cruelty to animals that man is prepared to do. It's no secret that the human being is the most cruel living being that the whole new age history is the history of violence. Just as it is no secret that some great philosophers like Nietzsche spoke of a man as an imperfect animal because an animal lives in harmony with its nature with its kind of battle, while man is a bully of both nature and other living beings. I think it's like civilized people to do everything to make us realize that other living things aren't meant to satisfy sometimes absurd, unnecessary, and I don't know what motivated but the existing long-term need for man to torture others in this animal case. That's why I agree with being what you were saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33119	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33120	Dear fellow, well, the fact is that man is the most cruel predator on the planet Earth and the fact is that led by certain and religious reasons because most of the faiths of institutionalized religions in the world speak of man being the master of all other beings morally justify to himself the various unethical and immoral actions that we do toward other animals. What we must bear in mind is that a man, as you said in his replica, is also one living creature, or animal, and as such animal, has a role in the ecosystem. However, the fact is that by taking the master's powers he stepped out of certain natural laws of this ecosystem and today we find it very difficult to view ourselves as beings also in the food chain of some other beings. I didn't talk about what was the last front of the animal movement, and here I would advise all my colleagues and colleagues to read a beautiful book called "The Liberation of Animals" by Peter Singer, which is considered the Bible of the animal movement, where we are talking about different steps in animal release procedures, and then the last is the transition to moral awareness and nutrition, but I'm afraid we're still far from that goal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33121	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33122	Dear colleague Holly, I fully agree with your discussion and I also spoke on behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Club about the cultural tradition of bull fighting. And now the question is who defends it, who claims it's a cultural tradition? What lobby is that defending? I don't believe there's some lobby that would be afraid that these are some powerful men who are but I believe that the legislator as far as the 2006 law is concerned, I don't know what year the legislator came from because he doesn't know what tradition or what culture is. It seems that less and less in Croatia's culture and less tradition, everything started to get mixed up, everything is being trampled because in Croatia tradition is fighting bulls that no one ever knew. Well, that's what you led to in Vrbovac two years of tradition so it's fantastic, so this is also what I think about us now you can say jubilee another time. I mean, I don't know what this is about, but the legislator didn't make it right in this law. We're just harmonising this, but what we should have removed from the law we haven't removed, we haven't shown any humanity, we haven't even shown any interests or wishes. So all those with feelings of compassion for animals, and this law will be seen as a knife in the back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33123	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33124	Dear colleague, the history of this provision in law is rather unusual. As far as I know, this was not an integral part of the 2006 bill itself, but it was one amendment submitted by one MP, I don't remember now which representative it was, and it means beyond any ordinary procedure suddenly the fight of bulls in Croatia became a traditional culture. Here's the thing about it is there's an interesting movie that doesn't take some kind of ethical relationship to that issue, but it's interesting that this phenomenon has also caused the interest of creating one story in the film. And I really don't understand why the proposer, or the Ministry of Agriculture, did not in this bill cast out this rather pointless provision that really has no cultural or traditional value in Croatia. Well, we're not Spain where there's some kind of cordial and bullfight, and in Spain we've been talking about unnecessary cruelty to animals in these practices for a long time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33125	Thank you very much. We've exhausted a list of registered clubs and agents. Finally, on behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the final word of the respected Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33126	Thank you, Mr. President. Honored colleagues and fellow MPs. I have closely followed and recorded this debate, and given the harmonisation of EU standards and regulations, I thought only thanks very briefly for the discussion and the proposed improvements. But since a few things have been brought out that have simply driven me to debate or further clarification I will try to make good use of my time. I would like to further explain to my colleague Vuksic that cattle production as an extremely important segment of agricultural production in the Republic of Croatia and every national agricultural Corps as such is made up of more than one way of growing, so we have dairy cattle, we have cattle farming and we have a system of cow farming - calf. Probably about what you were saying about beautiful cows in the pasture was also about your thinking about this cow system – the calf, but then you should probably use instead of Slavonia actually great natural resources for comparison, that is, that is, the digression Like or Banovina that is unfortunately not used in that part as much as it should and how it should be. You may have mentioned in this section fellow veterinarians who referred you to inhumane conditions of keeping and treating animals. I think it's quite a flat-rate assessment, because veterinarians are human people who love animals, who have chosen that call and know that according to the law, if someone keeps animals under inhumane conditions and inadequate conditions, it is a duty to legally report an inspection that will then take all the actions necessary to sanction such people. This is probably how it's so much more populistly speaking good or worse conditions. I am sure that our valuable cattlemen with big investments and who work in conditions and well-being, too, are doing standards that are very close to the EU with all new facilities or objects that are being adapted from day to day. If there are such cases I call upon you, but also those colleagues who speak of inhumane conduct, and it seems to me to be skis or sledgehammers or something like that to report it, then through our competent inspection services, we will certainly react hastily. I think it's also in your debate, but also out of honorary colleague Holly as a special problem, a listed bikini, that is, holding a bullfight, so I'll sort of be free to explain it here. Animal fighting, or fighting bulls, is not regulated by the EU acquis. Each Member State can adopt national regulations that further regulate this area only where we need to make a clear distinction or difference between the corridor, the use of weapons, the death of animals and what is traditional or if we are talking about bulls or bulls fighting. They're really not fighting, then maybe we should use the term bull measuring more precisely, because they actually are. Very often there is very little physical contact between animals. No real fights, no physical consequences, no animal deaths. And also when we are already calling and harmonising our legislation with the EU, then it should be said that this same EU attaches great importance to the cultural heritage of the Member States that retain their competence in the field of culture, and then this practice of facing or measuring bulls is interesting in both tourism and cultural terms. When we talked about the Vrbovac example, then it would be convenient for me to give an example of such a measurement of bullpower, it seems to me that the Croatian cinematography was also mentioned, and this film also speaks of it in the area of the Dalmatian Zagora, i.e. the Split-Dalmatia County, and when we did the proposal for this amendment and the addition of the law we consulted a number of people especially for interventions by an environmental association that wrote a lot of correspondence, and among other things we received the opinion of the Conservatory Department of the Ethnographic Museum in Split and the Committee for Intangible Heritage of the Ministry of Culture, which supports the further maintenance of the traditional bull competition and proposes their protection in accordance with the Law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods. We can also find in some publication the basis for this, meaning the protection of the national treasure in the light of the European law of 2007 Mrs Majde Rubic in the work of Examples from the register of immaterial cultural heritage and proposals for registration where she speaks of it as a well-known folk custom for bulls. This is when we say whether it's tradition or not, if something's been going on since almost 1890, then we can talk about tradition. And once again, I note in such a measuring or fighting of bulls at such events and bikes there are no severe injuries to bulls or their deaths, as well as all other exhibitions and manifestations, and these things are reported neatly and attended by our veterinary inspectors. The struggles take place so that the animals measure each other. There's body language, physical contact with each other, but it mostly ends up with the weaker animals leaving the arena without a fight and leaving freely. In addition to this story, that excellent suggestion, with this argument, I responsibly reject any comparison and carelessness of animals, and I am speaking of comparisons about the way and rules that are practice for the Spanish corridor and similar events that also mark their tradition in culture, but where animals are actually killed and something that is not acceptable to us. In fact, this is the way of fighting has actually been agreed with us not only by measuring, but also by some other European countries, and that is why we believe that in this way we should have left it in the law. In the debate further, there were some remarks regarding the obligations of municipal directors, i.e. everything about pets and the conduct of units of local self-government in that part, and I am quite surprised that my esteemed colleagues who came from Slavonian territory have listened to colleagues from the south who have at least 10 times as many budgets as the Slavonian municipalities and cities, and have been without a problem applying the positive provisions of the law and have cared and worked for the welfare of animals with abandoned and abandoned animals in accordance with the law. I think I also see no reason why not because I also come from local self-government from three mandates ahead of me, why not use the possibility of units of local self-government connecting to a specific project, and also animal shelter and care about abandoned animals, besides one project that is very interesting for two neighbouring cities or municipalities that are gravitating a particular city so that it can be solved in a very quality and precise and good way. I also see no difference and reason why it would not be one of the quality projects for using the rural development funds that will be available to us. The project should be designed as such, it should be well organised, implemented, and all units of local self-government that have municipal directors and municipal services now cover this part of their work among others. This isn't something that's new, we've been doing this in local self-government units and now it's just kind of being further precise in the whole story. With regard to shelters that are quite precisely marked in this part I will mention one more thing, these are not the only measures that are designed to take care of abandoned and abandoned animals. Among other things, this law but also in that part and now again speaks of the prescribed measures for the prohibition of leaving animals, of the prescribed measures to mark or chip animal monitoring and the possibility of castration and other things. So, in a quality way, we can further define this through this law. But it's extremely important, I mean what my dear colleague Kolar said we're working on consciousness, working on raising the awareness of our locals in relation to pets and animals in general. The Honored colleague Djurdjevic presented the thesis on pasharing, i.e. the inability to walk on surfaces covered by forest-economic areas, i.e. in water-economic coverage. I don't think I can agree with you to do this with exactly regulated rules with demands can but not normally... on the embankments. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We know if we're talking about cattle that they're hooves, that they're heavy hooves and they're destroying them like these themselves, but in that part of the scope, military coverage can do it and it's being practiced but not without control and not without a certain way... the procedure prescribed. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In addition to the need and wishes of my ministry and respect for all the highest environmental standards and good work of most NGOs who care and care for animal needs, I would like not only to be asked or appealed not to seek only negative things that are or potentially negative things that are proposed by laws and sublegal acts but to show in some way the same and in practice a little more concern and interest in animals themselves. We know the example of last year when we had the phenomenon of anger in some of our shelters that the same workers and the association mentioned above did not do all that the existing legislation said, which is that the fostering of animals, or pets from the shelter, must not be done before the monitoring of these animals has passed, or a certain period of time that they must be in shelters. That these animals must be vaccinated against rabies and only then safely fostered. Unfortunately, both because of the practice and because of the large number of animals that are in shelters that are not respected and then de facto opens up a real possibility that is extremely dangerous, which is the phenomenon of rage which, given the form of the disease we are talking about, can usually end with extremely severe consequences and death, and that is not in anyone's interest. Cooperation, working with associations yes, but not only in a way to seek negativity, to seek bad sides, and in some ways to use the rights but not the obligations to consume laws and sublaws as such. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am taking the opportunity to thank both the clubs and you who are willing to support this law now, because it is not only further harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the relevant EU legislation, but it is in fact additionally and raising and improving standards of animal welfare and protection, and thus all of us and our local communities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33127	I thank the minister. We've registered three replicas. First respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33128	Dear Minister, here I am to ask myself what is cultural in the fight of bulls? Let's explain to me what is cultural when, and it says in the bullfight law, read, not measuring forces. And even this you say is a little physical contact, but there may be more physical contact. I don't get it. Cultural tradition isn't. It may be a tradition, but it can't be a cultural tradition. The concept of culture is something else entirely. But I don't want to talk about it, and I don't want to talk about the populist thing you said. Holding cattle, so every time representatives of the government speak here looks ideal but yet Croatia is not an ideal country. However, I would have liked to have talked earlier about this way of breeding, the kind of cattle we know about although we do not deal with it, but I would have taken advantage of the opportunity when I asked you here last time, we asked for a session to explain to us a little about the state of things with food in Croatia, what about poisoned milk, what about declarations, how can you find horses instead of Juneine, what do Croats actually eat, what is food on shelves? Now here's the chance, last time the President of the Parliament said that you're not able to, now you're here so we don't ask for 10 minutes to stop the session to consult, I'd be begging that, and in what way the inspectorate works, when it works, who we need out there in Bosnia and Herzegovina to tell us that we have poisoned milk. So I would ask you nicely to be kind enough to explain to us if he allows it to be done by the chairman. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33129	Here's the minister in response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33130	Thank you, dear Vice President. Well, first of all, I cited institutions that gave a positive opinion and why they regard it as part of and traditions, and the cultural heritage of our rural areas, but also the good possibility of a tourist offer or an additional tourist offer in the area. And as such, I don't think there's much to be explained. And about this question of yours, and I'm talking about dairy beef and how you said poisoned or cancerous milk, as I once again use the opportunity as we said last week not to create unnecessary panic among Croatian producers. The system is ready, the system has done everything it takes and through the monitoring system regularly as such, but through all the reinforced measures we've made in 10 days. It is not a problem that appeared only in the Republic of Croatia and is related to us, according to all that we follow through the report and in collaboration with our colleagues, we see that this is also about Hungary, and to Slovenia, and to some shipments of milk from Germany itself. So it's not something that's just about us. The system has done its job, we have done it immediately, we have taken additional controls on these patterns, we have notified the spottically according to the orientation methods we have spent with us in Croatia, we have put it into a fast alert system, after which we have ordered the withdrawal of these patterns from the commercial shelves and we have informed the public with the report. We've done enhanced controls, complete systems in production itself, means in industry and in our dairy companies. By following up to the co-operatives themselves with control and livestock food to find the enchantment, and by means of an action plan and measures taken to replace the whole problem as such. I'm not going to mention in particular that they've been stepped up, especially reinforced controls from their import milk at the border as such. In addition to us, the sanitary inspection responsible for the health care and the products on the shelves are doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33131	Minister, no matter what the subject is, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33132	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33133	Second replica, the esteemed Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33134	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, here's a few words just about this law. Well, it's clear to me that we and in the previous law, there are certain things and certain provisions have been passed, so for those lovers and owners of dog animals, but I don't think that's enough. Look, I'm the head of a small unit of local self-government that has big problems with these dogs, because some of these pets love these dogs so much that they drive them into mine from another municipality. Look, it's true, they drive and they let them go, and I, as mayor, have big, big problems. Indeed, I would like to include in the new law provisions where these owners, if they love their animals as much as they do, will indeed take care of them, and write down far greater punishments for their owners than they have ever been. Namely, units of local self-government that have small budgets just as much as we have animal care, are not able to pay for that company that is required to take care of all those stray dogs and animals found on the road. And that's one of the big problems exactly in such units of local self-government, and I really ask you to see in the future how and in what way in this law to install these provisions that will simply force your owners and lovers not to create these problems to local self-government units as visible today, because if they respect, and respect and love the animal, then let them take care of it and take care of it. And that's why I'm asking you to increase the fines anyway, because the local self-government unit is not able to take care of it except those units of course that have far larger budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33135	The replica matches Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33136	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, dear fellow Lucic, you just said everything that was well done in the law, as such and built in. I'll just repeat it one more time, we're not talking in general about a law that isn't defined. We specifically said that it is forbidden to leave animals and which are penalties, i.e. co-consequences for those who do so. The system, above all, you were talking about dogs that are a problem, when they are in the free space eating, they are uncontrollable and then they can be dangerous for our locals, but the labelling system, or the dog chipping system, is something that is mandatory in the Republic of Croatia, and by doing so there can be irresponsible owners of these pets who, by their behavior, lead to risks, or potential opportunities and problems for the entire local community. The system of penalties has been determined in accordance with the legislation we could, it is important, not so much, and we cannot raise penalties there, but it is much more important, much more important for me to be effective and that these penalties are paid. An example is the best lesson for all who will, in the future, be so irresponsiblely proud of pets. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33137	And the third replica, the esteemed Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33138	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, I noticed that you spoke affirmatively of the cattlemen and I'm glad to hear it, but one thing is, one word is the other is the part. It is true that our cattlemen are both professional and that they do so with mara and love but the problem is that they unfortunately give up. Sadly, many give up what I was saying about the consequences. It's the closure of numerous farms, family economies, how many cattle I don't repeat ends up on forced slaughter and that's unfortunately a big problem. We know what is causing this after all these efforts our cattlemen have done to increase production and all together. We know what happened to the support that they were cut by a billion and a half compared to before, but the problem is that they are unfortunately left to the milk industry's mercy. And mine were here, and now I repeat, and that's what farmers expect from you to change this negative trend, change it because it can't be revived once it's destroyed to sow in the spring, in the autumn it gets picked up. That's what your cattlemen expect. That's what they expect because they say more than they say. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33139	And this replica is answered by Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33140	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Milinkovic, I did not purposely look back on your replicas in this part of the speaker, but I am now simply forced and as a colleague, I would ask you to stop actually misleading the Croatian public about the collapse of the family economy and the dairy economy in the Republic of Croatia for my 13 months. Since we've been running this department. 2003. In the years when the reference laboratory in Križevci was established, we had almost 60,000 family farms that were involved in milk production, sent our samples and taught milk to dairy farmers. 1.1.2011. 16 283 family economies are involved in the production of milk. 1. 1. 2012 means seven days when I was minister that number was 14 084 economy, 1.1.2013. 12 018 economies. If by figures and in 2011, when your esteemed colleague, Cobankovic, led the ministry, for some four hundred farms more stopped delivering milk and milk production to the Republic of Croatia than was done in 2012 since I led my team ministry. If we're going to watch the period from 2003-2012 we're talking about almost 45 thousand economies that have stopped producing milk in the Republic of Croatia. This is why the beef sector is, as it is, exposed to major risks, the problems are, we try systematically to address through a series of measures that we are implementing, through reforms primarily land reform or other, but we keep saying that the problem is exclusively in the last year I think it is not correct and fair. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33141	We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Shucker, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33142	Mr. Vice President, you've been obliged to warn Mr. Secretary, he can't tell parliamentary deputies that they're cheating on the public. I repeat, you can't behave here the way you behave. Article 216 has been broken. It is very interesting that you respond to the article and do not react when someone here defies parliamentary representation, Mr. Chairman. Let's start this session once that you're all equal in this House. You can't behave like this, you're a guest here and you have to act like one. You have to behave yourself. You can never tell a parliamentary representative that he cheats on the public because the parliamentary representative here has opinions and opinions and does not deceive the public. The only one who deceives the public can be you representatives of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33143	Now for an explanation. The Rules of Procedure have not been broken. Article 216 states: "when a representative is given a warning rather than a representative of the government. So you abused yourself" just a little bit, don't be alarmed. Listen to the explanation. I heard what the minister said. He told the MP that he was cheating on the public and then he argued with numbers his claim. Therefore, this claim was true. Since you have abused the Institute of Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, I am telling you now that you have abused it, so if you are not satisfied with this argument, you will have to address the Committee on the Constitution. If you don't, then it means you accept this explanation and admit that you have abused the Rules of Procedure. I'm asking you. You don't accept. Then you must contact the Constitutional Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33144	... [[The speaker is not enabled.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33145	That's what the Rules of Procedure says. We now have a second violation of the Rules of Procedure, Agent Milinkovic, please be my guest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33146	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Article 216 has been injured, and I will risk a reminder and which the Rules of Procedure has therefore not been published in the National Journal. The other thing I want to say when we talk about statistics, it's not true that I'm misleading the public when I say that milk production has fallen by 30%, that the support in agriculture has fallen again compared to earlier by a billion and a half, I'm going to be the easiest in that sense. And I was telling the truth, and these achievements that the minister is talking about, that's all our producers do, the cattlemen don't see it, Mr. Vice President. But if the minister can say what he wants and I'm not allowed as an assembly officer, then you can really give me a warning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33147	You can speak within the agenda point and within what you have applied for. Now you've applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Not to correct the minister's numbers he listed. I'm also telling you now that article 216. It wasn't broken that you heard an explanation just now. And I refer you to Article 211 and "If the representative is not satisfied with the day's explanation following the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, he may announce to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that he will submit an opinion on the breach of the Rules of Procedure. The representative who does not submit a request within the time limit set out in paragraph 2 of this Article shall lose the right to speak about the breach of the Rules of Procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article by the end of the current session." It's in your Rules of Procedure. So if you can't stand it, you've used the right to correct an incorrect quote for this session. Now the correction of the incorrect allegations is announced by the representative of the Mlakar. Here you go. I'm sorry for the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33148	Mr. Vice President, I'm reporting for the violation of the Rules of Procedure of this particular article of 211 which you have now read so nicely. And only for the next correction of your allegations. It is not true that that representative who does not submit to the Committee on the Constitution, the political system and the Rules of Procedure of objection to the infringements of the Rules of Procedure is considered to have accepted your argument that the Rules of Procedure have not been injured. That's not true, that's why you misread the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33149	If he can't take it, he loses his right. Okay. All right, I apologize for a little misreading. I expect you to apply for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if you do not address the Committee on the Constitution, then you will no longer be able to highlight the breach of the Rules of Procedure, you and your colleague Milinkovic. That concludes the debate on the text of the law, and we will vote when conditions are obtained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33150	We move to a plea by the discussed acts in the Croatian Parliament this week. First is the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 280. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I find that most of the votes we have adopted, votes 79 for and 29 against the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like a representative of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Snjezana Spain, Deputy Minister of Agriculture to be seen. Amendment number one. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33151	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33152	We'll explain, and we'll open the discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33153	The Government of the Republic of Croatia has given ex ante consistency to accept the above-mentioned amendment for nomotechnical reasons in order to ensure the clarity of the legal text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33154	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm confirming there's no record of a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on Amendment No. 1. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most of the votes, 79 in favour, 28 against and 1 in abstention, have adopted Amendment No 1. The governments of the Republic of Croatia and become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two, respected Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33155	The proposal is not accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33156	Explanation of respected deputies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33157	Here. The proposed text of the amendment could not be accepted for nomotechnical reasons, but it was fully accepted through the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia 1 to Article 3 of the final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33158	I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Governments of the Republic of Croatia, justification.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33159	Yeah. Article 4(2), point 8 of the existing Animal Protection Act prohibits the organisation of dog races on hard bases. Amendment 2 proposes to completely prohibit dog races in the Republic of Croatia. Although no application has been submitted to the competent authority for the dog race, no organised dog races have been held. We're removing any possibility of holding a dog race. By adding paragraph 1 to Article 4 of the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act, the current paragraph 1 shall become paragraph 2 which shall be nomotechnically edited.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33160	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. No one's answering for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. Please state Amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the vote 79 for and 30 against Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment No 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Deputy Minister of Explanation
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33161	Thank you very much. Article 11 Article 24 is amended as follows: The Animal Protection Act, by amendment 3, is proposed to amend and supplement paragraph 2 of Article 24. Animal protection law for the purpose of extending areas in which animal testing is not permitted, in accordance with principle 3 R. The set of principles for the replacement of the use of test animals by methods which do not require their use, the use of as few experimental animals as possible and the improvement of the conditions of breeding and procurement of test animals as well as the implementation of the attempts taken over by Directive 2010/63 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, which is incorporated into the text of the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act. For reasons of clarity and clarity, it is proposed to amend Article 11 of the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33162	Thank you, too. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. No one's answering. I'm closing the debate. Please make a statement. Who's for amendment number three of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that by a majority of the 79 votes in favour and 23 votes against, 7 abstentions accepted amendment number 3 of the government of the Republic of Croatia and thus became an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are moving to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Amendment No 1 to Article 27 Please show off.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33163	Sustained. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has given prior consent to the adoption of the above-mentioned amendment for nomotechnical reasons in order to ensure the clarity of the legal text.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33164	Thank you very much. Thus, the amendment of the Legislative Committee became an integral part of the final draft law. Amendments of the Club of Representatives of the CNS Amendment No 1
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33165	It's unacceptable. The proposed text of the amendment could not be accepted for nomotechnical reasons but was fully accepted through the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia first on Article 3. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the animal protection law retaining the existing definition of the death term referred to in Article 3 of point 23. Law on the protection of animals from NN 135 from 2006. In its statement, this definition is clearer than the definition in Article 3(6). The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing animal protection laws as it provides that animals cannot be killed if they are not previously drugged by the use of the prescribed means and methods approved for that purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33166	On behalf of the HNS club, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33167	Thank you very much. Since the promoter and the government have respected us, we are withdrawing our amendment proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33168	Amendment number two of the same club representatives please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33169	Thank you. It's unacceptable. The definition of 3 R principles in the amending and supplementing laws on animal protection is broader than proposed because they cover the conditions of breeding, procurement and use of animals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33170	Thank you very much. Please show the club. Dear Representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33171	Thank you very much. We agree and withdraw the proposed law as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33172	Amendment number three of the same club of MPs, respected deputy minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33173	He doesn't accept. Given the importance of preserving the competition of bulls, bulls of misery, stinging, measuring bulls' foreheads and others, which do not endanger animals and animal health as works of living Croatian traditional culture as well as in terms of maintaining the economic development of the Dalmatian Zagora area and the Dalmatian Dalmatian County, and the preservation of a bovine fund that would be lost if there were no more reason to grow and hold bulls, this body has not changed the animal protection law in the sense of banning the maintenance of traditional bull fights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33174	On behalf of the HNS club, respected representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33175	We accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33176	Amendment number 4 of the same club of MPs, respected deputy minister
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33177	Thank you very much. It's unacceptable. The proposed text of the amendment could not be accepted for nomotechnical reasons but it was fully accepted through Amendment 2 to Article 4. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act. Article 4(2), point (8) The Animal Protection Act is forbidden to organise dog races on hard bases by amendment of Government No. 2. It is proposed to completely prohibit dog races in the Republic of Croatia. although no application has been submitted to the competent authority but has already been elaborated under this amendment but I will read it again. Keeping the dog race or holding organized dog races we believe that by prescribing a stricter provision, we remove any possibility of holding a dog race. By adding paragraph 1 to Article 4. The final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act is now paragraph 1. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33178	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HNS club, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33179	Since this definition is much stricter and much stronger we agree, we accept this amendment and withdraw our proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33180	Thank you very much. Amendment number five of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33181	It's unacceptable. The conditions and manner of keeping pets, the way of controlling their reproduction, the conditions and manner of keeping dogs tied up and the way they treat abandoned and lost animals are prescribed by the bodies of municipalities or cities and makes great differences in how dogs are kept in the city and rural environment. The conditions for the use of primates are in line with Directive 2010 already mentioned under the previous EU Parliament and Council amendment of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The methods of killing animals are in line with the EU Council Regulation No. 1099 of 24 September 2009 on the protection of animals at the time of death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33182	Thank you, too. Observation of club representatives, respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33183	Thank you very much. We accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33184	Thank you very much. Amendment number six of the same club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33185	It's unacceptable. Article 10 determines for which purposes animal experiments may be carried out and is in accordance with Directive 2010/63 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33186	Observation of the club on behalf of the club esteemed representative Ivica Mandić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33187	We accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33188	Thank you very much. Amendment number seven of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33189	It's unacceptable. Amendments and amendments to the laws provide the basis for the adoption of Directive 63 of 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes and for penalties to be imposed against the provisions on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes. The provisions of the Directive to be adopted in the national legislation of the animal protection Regulation applicable for scientific purposes are laid down that animal experiments in the EU Member States will not be carried out on animals if the same experiments have been carried out in one Member State except in specific cases where an experiment is required to protect health or the environment and only after approval by the competent authority. Since EU legislation applies only to EU Member States, there is no control over how to conduct experiments in third countries, and therefore, because of the possibility of moving animal protection attempts to the country where animal protection is not as developed as in the EU and in order to avoid such abuses being recognised only by experiments carried out in EU Member States that must be implemented in accordance with the provisions of that Directive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33190	Please show on behalf of the promoter. Dear Representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33191	We accept and withdraw the amendment, but... the objective of the amendment was to essentially protect animals and to accept those experiments on animals made outside the EU. But if the EU regulations don't accept it, I am withdrawing the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33192	Amendment number 8 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33193	It's unacceptable. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act was adopted by Directive 2010/63 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, in particular in Article 13(1) of the Directive in question. It can be concluded that the EU only recognises the results of those attempts it has certain control over which it meets standards such as those set out in the Directive. In accordance with the above, it is not possible to accept an amendment to which the provisions of the Directive are contrary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33194	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the respected representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33195	We accept the explanation and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33196	And finally Amendment 9 of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33197	It's unacceptable. The Law amending and supplementing the Animal Law provides that surgical procedures on certain animals may be carried out by doctors, pharmacists, medical biochemists, dentists, agronomists and herdsmen, biotechnology or biologists on laboratory animals, mouse, rat, guinea pig, golden hamster, Chinese hamster, Mongolian jumper, frogs and zebras. Where they have passed the examination referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article and are conducted under the supervision of a veterinarian of veterinary medicine. As animals other than for scientific purposes are used for higher education, it is necessary to allow experts in those areas to carry out surgical procedures and under the supervision of veterinarians, as it is not realistic that all such needs may be further employed by veterinarians. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33198	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter, the obvious honourable representative Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33199	We're withdrawing the amendment. Our club's intention was to make this law better and better. We're withdrawing the proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33200	Thank you very much. And finally, the amendment to Honorable Representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33201	It's unacceptable. The proposed text of the amendment could not be accepted for nootechnic reasons but was fully accepted through Amendment No. 3 to Article 11. The final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act proposing amendments and additions to paragraph 2 of Article 24. The Act on the Protection of Animals for the purposes of extending areas in which it is not allowed to conduct an animal experiment, in accordance with principle 3R. A set of principles for replacing the use of test animals with methods that do not require their use, the use of as few experimental animals as possible and the improvement of the conditions of breeding and the procurement of test animals and the conduct of experiments. All of these have been taken over from Directive 2010/63 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 22 September 2010 on the protection of animals used for scientific purposes, which is incorporated into the text of the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act. For reasons of clarity and clarity, it is proposed to amend Article 11 in full. Final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Animal Protection Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33202	Thank you very much. And the testimony of the esteemed Proposer Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33203	I am very pleased that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has decided to improve and correct the law with amendments, and I am particularly glad that their amendment has in fact absorbed what was the meaning of my amendment and I will in any case support the law because it has been improved. The only thing I'm sorry about is that you didn't lift your bikes, and I hope you'll do it in some next bill of law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33204	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state by raising your hand who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 106 votes for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Animal Protection Act in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33205	Now we move to the next item of the agenda, which is: - Final draft law amending the Law on civil servants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 281 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and you received reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Minister of Administration, respected Zoran Piculjan. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33206	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. In front of you is one not great intervention in the Law on State Servants, which is actually aimed at the completion of the Institute of Employment of Persons who can be admitted to the State Service for a period of time without the prior implementation of a public tender or a public service advert, but only to the posts in the cabinet of the Minister until the Minister's term of office has ceased. You know, and that is also the legal pretext that these provisions apply properly to the work of the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Office of the Prime Minister, the Office of the Croatian Vice-President, the Office of the Government who is not the Head of the Ministry and the Office of the Head of State Office. The amendment goes, or here, to supplement that it is also covered by this application of this institute by the appropriate organisational unit of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia. The second amendment is related to the opening of the possibility or the right of civil servants who, in this way, have started working in the cabinet of ministers or these other officials to return to their jobs equally complexly in the body from which they were transferred to the cabinet of ministers after the term of office of office of the Minister. It seems to us that these interventions further clarify and specify this legal institute that was introduced in the spring introduced into the Parliament last year into the Law on Civil Servants. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33207	I thank the Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, the Honorable Damir Cain will speak. Since Damir Caine doesn't have a club of Independent Representatives then loses the right to debate this issue. So the HNS club will be spoken of by respected Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33208	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will speak on behalf of the HNS club of Liberal Democrats about the proposed changes to the law but I will not talk about the proposed changes to the law is really very simple in these few articles that are changing. I'm going to talk about the law itself and the position of civil servants who are truly in an invisible position today. This law regulates the equal relationship between civil servants and the state as employers, prescribes uniform rules governing admission to the state service, classification of civil servants' posts, professional training and training of civil servants, promotion in the service, as well as other issues relevant for the exercise of the rights and obligations of civil servants, and certain issues of importance for the regulation and exercise of the right of the householder. We in the HNS of Liberal Democrats believe that the public should be as broad as possible and as familiar with all the obligations of primarily civil service workers or civil servants. In their conduct, civil servants must not discriminate or authorise citizens... of age, nationality, ethical and territorial origin, language and racial origin, political or religious beliefs or proclivities, disability, education, social status, gender, marital or family status, sexual orientation or any other reason contrary to the Constitution and the law of established rights and freedoms. A State official must be provided with the necessary organisational technical conditions in which he or she will be able to carry out tasks in accordance with the principles and standards of work required by the State Service. This is a very article of the 9th of July, which seems very important to us for the work of civil servants. The Head of State or senior officials shall respect the dignity of the civil servant. The civil servant has the right to progress, professional training through education and other ways of training. A civil servant shall not be allowed to open a trade or establishment of a company or other legal person in the field of activity in which he is employed as a civil servant, i.e. an area of activity related to the business of a part-time body in which he is employed. Furthermore, a civil servant is required by written notice to a senior civil servant of financial or other interest which he, his or her spouse, child or parent may have in the decisions of the bodies in which he works. The civil servant is obliged by written notice of the natural and legal persons with whom he was in a special relationship during the period....../Indica Stazić: Coli Blažeković, I must warn you that you are holding a debate on another law. That's why I usually take your word for it, because you're speaking outside the agenda. We are now discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Civil Servants with the Final Proposal of the Law. It's P.Z. No. 281. These are these brief little changes that an officer has the right to return to the structural unit from which he came, if temporarily located in the ministry someone. I'm asking you nicely, then, to get as close to the subject as possible. You can talk, of course, this is the final bill, you can talk a little bit about the context, but not too far away. Thank you. Namely, my discussion is quoting articles of the law. I quote literally articles of the law that speak of certain obligations of civil servants. That's the law. It's about that same law. I hope I'm not bothering all of you, but I have to admit that I'm not speaking for any of the parliamentary agents. [[/Intruder Stazic: Continue, go ahead.]] I'm saying it for the public. I think the public is obliged and should be familiar with the law that determines the work of civil servants in 160 articles, but obviously you are probably right. I'll take a closer look at the Rules of Procedure whether I'm right or right, so I'll just finish telling you why I'm going into this discussion. In fact, civil servants are rightly asked for excellence. State officials are direct enforcers of state, or government policy, and those who are meant to come in the same way, have the same conditions as if they are in the service of the president, for example with the president of the state. A number of civil servants are in direct contact with citizens of service users, public administrations, public officials would prefer to call public administration officials rather than civil servants. But we have to use official terminology. Therefore, because of the above, civil servants must certainly be the most qualified professional staff that Croatia has in the first place, including those of which it is today. We in the Croatian People's Party to Liberal Democracy think that in the vast majority of today's civil servants are absolutely one of the most qualitative professional cadres that Croatia has. It is true that officials mirrored their superiors, and often the mirror of government policies. It is true, as is true among civil servants everywhere, there are also non-employees and incorrect persons, but it is a minor problem that is adequately assessed in the procedures of resolution. As I said, civil servants, public administration officials are in the highest number of high-quality and adequately educated hardworking workers, workers who deserve our attention, our respect and our social reputation. And it's also about that same thing again so I don't mistake the officers who are listed in the motion to amend this law. However, it is not uncommon for civil servants to be unfairly and unfairly held accountable by some wrong decisions, false non-life regulations, and this segment of difficult conditions for the work of civil servants to be understood and changed quickly. But for us in the HNS, one of the bigger problems seems to be adequate rewarding of civil servants, and ensuring not only normal but as good as possible conditions for the work of civil servants. If we ask civil servants to ensure that through the Law on State officials and its 160 articles excellence, quality in conduct and integrity in relation to public affairs we must provide or at least try to ensure adequate remuneration, working conditions in the country, in accordance with the country's conditions. But let's just say one example that's fascinating to me is that the officials and officials of the Croatian Parliament have nowhere to park their cars. Well, it's something that we could really try to make it possible for them, and we use them as much as possible and try to get the best out of them. We in HNS are looking forward to a time when the public service will become the prestigious activity of the most excellent people in Croatia,... high wages and recognised social status. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Until then, all of us and civil servants and citizens should be treated with respect and gratitude by civil servants, civil servants in the public administration. At the same time, no civil servant may pay inadequately, inadequately rewarding is freed from the most professional approach in public business. The above-mentioned changes to the Croatian People's Party club of Liberal Democrats will accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33209	Thank you. Thank you. The replica of Mrs. Ruza Tomasic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33210	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, colleague Blažekovic, I understand that you do not want to talk about the proposal of this law and that you are uncomfortable, because it is only two articles. One article is that all those government officials who finish their work in one place so they can move to another place. And the second article you do not want to talk about is that the Minister of State can be admitted to the Office of State service for a period of time without a previous public tender, or a public service notice. These civil servants cannot be deployed to jobs, etc. So if we had the inflation of civil servants, we really have the inflation of civil servants, and you'd still like new employees to receive new civil servants without a competition, that we have no idea how or why and who they're going to go to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33211	The answer to the esteemed Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33212	Thank you very much. I must admit, in principle, that I agree with the way you organize or legislative regulations that lead to the way you organize a particular service being done in a way that creates a team with which you come and with which you leave. And that's how much I understand the intensity of this entire law, that is, the change in that segment of that law, that you take and bring to yourself people that you're convinced you're going to be able to do with them an important job like running a department, a part of the state service, or ministries or in the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia. And I think that such provisions can only help in the efficiency of the work of the state services and other offices of the state service and of the President of the Republic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33213	Second replica, the esteemed representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33214	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here I am only going to continue on this expression of discomfort. Well, it's interesting to me that you're expressing such a great deal of discomfort towards civil servants and tenants, even though I'm actually clear about what's being prepared for them right now with the pay cut, so it's a normal thing to make it uncomfortable. And what Mrs Tomasic said earlier, so here it really says in this article that people who have not worked in the public service will be able to be employed. So it's not just about moving and returning, which is fine, but it's about these other people who are already in the usual practice of hiring without competition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33215	Representative Boris Blazekovic corresponds to the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33216	Thank you very much. So I would just like to say that the intensity of my discussion, because it's just three practical articles of amendment and some additions to the articles of the law, was to talk about problems in the work of civil servants and that all together but not just us but also the public sensitized about that there are a large number, a large amount of men and women who do an extremely responsible job and that from time to time we need to look back at their work, their quality of work and ultimately commend them if we should. But put the overall responsibility of the work of all of us, or all of them, to the satisfaction because we are all in the service of citizens who are paying for all these services.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33217	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of Croatian Labourists – The parties of work will speak to the respected representative Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33218	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The amendments to the Law on civil servants contained in Articles 74b and 74c are not problematic or questionable. There is no doubt about their changes, and they are acceptable in order for the President's Office to fill jobs according to the same criteria as in certain ministries, as well as for the status in those state bodies to be leveled with other civil servants' rights. Croatian Labourists – The Party working on the text has no objections, the procedure and the urgent process of amending the law are more questioned. We do not see any reason as suggested by the promoter that for state reasons an emergency procedure will establish a better functioning of the Office of Presidents. What the hell happened in the President's office? We don't know. I wonder if the President's Office is not working well enough and what are the problems they are facing? We're not interested in making it impossible for the president's office to function properly or better, but I guess when it's such an emergency, it's time to know what the problems are. This way we can only guess what it's all about. There is not long from the 2011 State Auditor Report, it was warned of a violation of the Labour Act in the Office of the President of the Republic. For part of the employees, overtime lasted more than 180 hours a year, making it clear that the labour law had been clearly violated. Although it is explained from the office that such work did not affect the health status of employees, the question is raised and we can only guess whether it was the same in 2012 and whether these are the reasons for certain changes in the president's office? If so, I hope we see it in the 2012 report. Otherwise, as far as the law itself is concerned, he has experienced six changes since 2005 when it was passed. Three amendments have been in 6.5 years since the law was passed, and just over a year here we are making a third amendment with one proposal for this law withdrawn from the procedure in September last year. If we continue with these frequent amendments to this law and such a pace, we could have 10 to 15 amendments to the law by the end of the term of office and perhaps more. The frequent amendments to the law tell us that this authority is disoriented, that this government is not able to prepare a full and quality proposal through regular procedure and deliver it for discussion and adoption to the Parliament, but rather by ad hoc repairing those parts that have already been changed in the law itself again changes them and corrects them. This practice creates only legal uncertainty, due to frequent amendments to the law. We can guess if frequent amendments to the law are the wishes of certain constituencies, which are met by the competent ministry, because we do not see other differences in urgency. The previous amendments to the law were based on an explanation for the reshuffle of the state administration in those articles. I'd like to know if this reshuffle happened today, how accurate the number of employees in the state services, how much power was taken over, how far it went from the state service, how busy it was in a year, we don't have those answers. I guess that's some kind of minimum of data that parliamentary deputies should have when they're given changes to laws that affect employment by individual ministries and structural units. This way we can only guess if the number of employees has increased or decreased, or if we are passing laws that will make it easier for us to conduct party staffing or political nepotism. And when financial savings are finally missing, then everyone needs to be cut off 3%, and maybe soon more, or cut off some other rights. And tell the tenants and be happy you're still working, you're getting paid if it can be worse, regardless of what they're least guilty of in the state. Croatian Labourists see that the only culprit for this state is the current authority and within it we have no objection to the law itself, but the main objections are to the procedure which is around this law by emergency procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33219	We've registered three replicas. First respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33220	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tušak, you say in your introduction, and that is in the end, you have concluded that this change is not questionable to you. I disagree with that, namely this amendment is only one debate but previously established questionable amendments to the Civil Service Act because it establishes, in my opinion, a questionable one, so I would say not even an unfair employment system in, even for a certain time, the state administration and without a public competition. So, I think it's doubtful that when the minister comes to the head of a particular ministry hires a certain number of people, I don't know how many, and that, for these people, don't apply the criteria that apply to all other civil servants in the Republic of Croatia. That is one reason why this should be questionable and another is that among several hundred state officials in certain ministries, the minister who assumes the mandate, he cannot find enough quality personnel to be his associates in the mandate in which he is acting. And here at a time when, for example, Mr. Blazekovic swears to the quality, the expertise of these civil servants. On the other hand, we support a law in which we would like to say that among employees in the state, there are not so many high-quality civil servants in the ministry who could carry out that duty and we do so just on a day, day or two after the Prime Minister announced that these same civil servants will reduce the salary of 3% due to the problem of filling the state budget. I think this change of law is absolutely questionable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33221	The replica corresponds to the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33222	Thank you, Vice President. Comrade Bačić, in my speech, I said that the existing changes that have occurred, these changes are not questionable, but I also said something that the law regulates and that question is part of the data that we do not have. And based on this data, whether we have them today or possibly have them whenever certain provisions of the law are changed, and the number of employment is concerned, etc. Then we could adequately, based on the facts and talk, something like this hangs in the air, there's some kind of right that's prescribed by law and some possibility that regulates civil servants, but without this information, we can't know whether people have been employed by political nepotism or possibly by some kind of political criteria and what kind of a sum of people have been going through certain ministries and how many people are going to go with a single minister. Without that information, it's illusory to argue at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33223	Another replica, the esteemed Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33224	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Tušak, you have asked yourself, in your debate, why we are discussing such a form of law, and we have no data whatsoever, and that is indeed perhaps the most crucial issue of this law. But here's the Department of Administration didn't find it appropriate to tell us, even though we've already opened that story here several times, how many people in the past year have entered the system of state administration based on similar, let's say similar articles of this same law. My estimates are that only in 20 ministries have we hired a minister of 4 or 5 people to pay you 100 people, let them have 4000 nets, that's 400 thousand a month, and a year 5 million, so let's figure out what that is in one four-year term of government. And then there's no story of nepotism because they entered under the law, no nepotism. And having a similar party card is another thing. What concerns is the lack of compassion of the government who proposes such laws after a story that appeared outside that says that all state officials he allegedly has and too much in all these ministries, public enterprises, and where everything does not need to cut wages because the government simply fails to achieve its economic programme and economic growth for which they should give the most part of their engagement. This is the problem, so the question arises how, after their pay cuts, it will make some kind of economic or projected growth even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33225	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33226	My colleague I will fight in a great deal with your replica. What I said was that for the current state of government, the most responsible is this authority. It is clear that the other is also a responsibility when we pass these laws by emergency procedure and we do not see any element that such a law should be passed by emergency procedure or any explanation than is said for any better functioning of the president's office and beyond that there is clearly a lot of things left hanging in the air and that is the part of the facts you were talking about, so I fully agree about your replica and discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33227	The third and last replica of this exhibition is respected Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33228	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, here's my colleague, Tušek, you've noticed that urgency has no justification, but you haven't noticed that this law absolutely wasn't necessary in a procedure that legalises all those who will be admitted without a public tender, without advertising, without qualifications, without any, trial work, professional examination, without anything. He wants to legalise such as are admitted to work in the office of the president, the office of President of the Parliament, in the cabinet of ministers. They want to be placed on these amendments to the law so that they can be moved and moved as needed to other jobs. That's what an esteemed colleague is about, and it's clearly written here that we just need to read and figure out what's hiding in this law. This law absolutely had absolutely no need to be adopted because the President's office has the power to decide by its rules on employment and deployment in the workplace.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33229	The replica corresponds to Agent Tušak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33230	Thank you. A colleague Djakic, is a lot of things but as I said, the state administration is something special about which we must also take into account the issue of the functioning of the state administration and the people working in that state administration must be transparent. If I repeat and continue, we don't have any data on who works, who goes away, how much does it work, then it can't even be transparent. We can talk about any laws but if other things are hidden behind the law and that's the question of this political nepotism or political ID, then even the best of these laws won't help us if it's not transparent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33231	The positions of the HDZ Club on this law will be brought closer to us by a respected colleague, Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33232	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'll wait for the flight change of the chairman. Introductoryly, I would say the remarks that perhaps some of my colleagues may have already made and it seems to me that they are important to say because it is the principle of government work, but I would also say to Parliament the dissatisfaction of all of us. We got once again for the third time in a year of amending the law if we're counting the consolidated text let's not count it, especially the third amendment to the Law on civil servants in a year. It may follow some idea that in ten changes per year you get a gold watch or something like a reward. However, we agree with the estimates that this law was completely unnecessary. The first major comment is on this law that the proponent is asking for the law to be discussed in parliament by an urgent procedure. For two reasons, as a first well-intentioned remark on the page of two of your materials, the reasons for the emergency procedure are not in line with Article 159. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, that was before the ruling had changed the rules of procedure which we heard had not yet received an official publication in the National Journal. So if you refer to Article 159. The Rules of Procedure then read what it says. The reasons for the adoption of the law under emergency procedure are laid down in Article 162. The Rules of Procedure and that would already be enough for you to have someone because of this mistake not to give me the intention of returning the law to do so. As a second important application in that same point 4. It says the law is passed by emergency procedure because the state reasons are to ensure assumptions for the establishment of a better functioning of the office of the president of the Republic of Croatia. First, it is concluded that the government has concluded that the Office of the President of the Republic does not function well. It's not just professional, I think it's the government's political assessment. I don't know what remarks the government has on the functioning of the president's office. You can't see that from this explanation. But you can see something else. That explanation you gave is not a reason for the law to be passed by emergency procedure. In order for the law to be adopted by an emergency procedure, it may only occur where the defence interests and other particularly justified state reasons require it to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. For these reasons alone, and that requirement by the Government to comply with the acquis, the EU can be passed by emergency purchase. And as this remains as a draft law by emergency procedure, we are going to hurt the Rules of Procedure that we were already talking about today. There's no reason for the urgency of this law, especially when you enter the essence of the text and see why we're even passing the law. And it may be understandable that at the beginning of her term, the government was just changing the Civil Service Act because it needed corrections to put its people in places that were important to the functioning of the state administration. Perhaps then the amendment to the Civil Service Act was due to the need of 500 people you wanted to impose politically in the system of state administration. And I agree here with a colleague who spoke on behalf of the HNS Club that you should and should commend not exceptional but often, if necessary, civil servants because these materials you have before you are also the result of their work. It's not a problem with civil servants, it's a problem with state officials that we specifically rewarded two weeks ago with new higher salaries, one small round of them 15, and after two weeks we've all cut all the gross incomes linearly, and we think it's a good and smart policy of this government. It's a disaster that only deepens, it's just a crisis that you deepen with these decisions. That's why we think the problem is that you're breaking the system again with this law. After the need of 500 people you first changed the law for, when we read this text, we see that this law was prepared for the sake of twenty people who have been disturbed by so far. And that's pretty much what was said, we first arranged a way to get people into the state service without competitions, without qualifications, without professional training, without professional examinations exclusively in political resemblance. That's what we did. You have entered various ministries in various cabinets of ministers. We do not arrive, and it may not be an opportunity to talk about the opinion of those who face these experts as to their knowledge. But there's likely to be a chance that we can talk about that, too. And after we've set them up, so without any criteria, we're going to protect them in particular now. How do we protect ourselves? This law and we will tell all those who have been admitted to the cabinets of ministers without competition, without the qualifications necessary for those posts at the time their minister's term of office ends, will be deployed to the vacancy of the same institutions in which they were admitted. And now you've been trying to do it since the beginning. You wanted to replace the state administration of some new people, people who suit you because of your political resemblance, no matter what their qualifications are to do. It is now evident from the laws you have proposed. Unfortunately, that's not all. When you look at the law so far, you are because of the twenty people you did not answer to changed one sentence, which is that they exercised their rights in those bodies they were transferred to. And then someone thought of the misery that in two or three years' time, when this authority fell, and when the minister left his place, those people would have to go on the road with that story we listened to, they would come with the rulers and go with the rulers. No, now he won't leave because he'll be deployed to the job openings in the institutions they came to without a competition. That's what this law says. And this is due to the poor nomotechnical development of this law because the Institute of Moves that should be the rule with you is an exception, so you first entered the exceptions of all possible articles 74, 76. to talk about the essence later, and that is to move, if necessary, to the service of certain people in the system of state administration. And what we're wondering all the time is, why does this government always and only experiment with other than the whole nation with civil servants alone? For everything else you've had the understanding but state and public officials are the part to be experimented with, because elsewhere you probably don't dare to touch, so it's the easiest to make permanent changes in the state service, and tomorrow we'll reassess how the state administration is bulky, slow, inefficient, undereducated, etc. In this way, you will not achieve an effective, well-organised, small and well-paid state administration three times a year. You will achieve exactly the opposite effects. And now by this law you petrify the situation, all those you have hired without a competition, you will deploy to job vacancies and at the same time you will still keep those civil servants who have changed colleagues who have travelled between different institutions or state bodies. Because if someone were to explain it from the Parliament or the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was temporarily transferred to work in the government of the Republic of Croatia, you'd already taken another man at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in his place. In three years, this guy from the government should be back at the ministry. Since his place was filled, he couldn't come back. He will now have to return to his workplace with the foundation and strength of this Law, but there will already be a colleague who has done his work during that same period. You're not going to be able to quit because he's not responsible for the fact that you have an additional burden of hiring those you temporarily moved to other jobs. I would like to ask the Government again, I know that we have done this many times and so far without success, to withdraw the motion of this law by emergency procedure because this law does not have any element for which it should be carried out by an emergency procedure unless you think that the President's office is ahead of ruin and in such a bad state that it is urgent that the measures of this law regulate working relations in the Office of the President of the Republic, which is an explanation of this law. But if that's not the case, and if the government hasn't passed such an assessment on the President's office, then we suggest that you remove the urgency of this procedure first, that we discuss this law in two readings. This law did not fully cover everything that could change and need to be changed in the Law on civil servants, and after two readings, we convinced you that this way of employment in the state administration would not help anyone but would only give birth to new problems that we have witnessed so far. And finally, apart from this kind of personneling, at the same time, you started to frame yourself with political pressures, even where you can't, where the law forbids you, so you announced the replacement of the director of the State School for Administration appointed to a four-year term just because he doesn't answer for unknown reasons. And besides moving three or four times to the State School, the school which is one of the obligations undertaken by the Croatian Government in discussions with the European Commission, what has been required since 2003 of the Republic of Croatia to create an independent public institution that will deal with education and state and local officials now again put under political supervision. None of us need that. It won't be a measure to improve anything in the work of the state administration. I'm afraid you're just going to take it backwards. And what's very interesting about these palitative changes to all the laws concerning the state administration. The dissatisfaction of officials with the fact that their working relations are being discussed every few months, with the fact that you turn some officials into your obedient state officials and pay them, and then the Prime Minister, in his classic way, tells everyone and public and state officials that after he has guaranteed them some rights by contract, he will now reduce those rights. It's also visible from this law, it's a government policy that wanders and is unable to solve it systematically seems to be a single problem. Certainly not those in the economy, nor in the state or public administration. For these reasons, we call upon you again not to offend the Rules of Procedure which we must adhere to, to remove the urgency of the bill, to discuss this law in two readings, but to consider whether these solutions are good at all. Try to move away from the political discourse and think that your actions, your laws and your interventions address not only the question of the fate of these civil servants, but also the question of the quality of the state administration to which everyone is often called. For these reasons, the HDZ club will certainly be against this law, and I call on the motion also to think carefully before it comes to Parliament with such proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33233	Thank you very much. We have seven replicas from your club on your display. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33234	Comrade Mlakar, in your debate, you have rightfully warned this part of the law regarding emergency proceedings. Now I'm going to give you my example. I prepared a debate eight months ago on the proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the acquisition of stock companies, P.Z. No. 93. I don't know what I'm going to do with this debate because the emergency procedure was voted by 1.6.02. 81 votes for and 40 against. We've had an emergency procedure law for eight months, and we haven't discussed it. Now I don't know if I should throw that debate away, whether we're even going to discuss such a law or what we're going to do. That's the way our Dom works. So we have nothing to be surprised at when laws like this, which, by no means, cannot deserve the notion of urgency of the procedure, end in discussions the same week that the materials are almost coming. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33235	Next replica Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33236	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Mlakar, I agree with everything you've just said on behalf of the club. I would remind you of another dimension these numerous amendments to the Civil Service Act have suffered over the past year. You remember well that, as we commented on the proposal to amend and supplement the law when the directors of the administration in the ministries were abolished, when the secretary of state was abolished, when it came to professionalising, when it came to reducing the number of state officials. And you know what kind of epilogue is after this famous change that today in the government of the Republic of Croatia, in all ministries compared to the time when HDZ led the government and when there were a total of what the ministers were, which state secretaries 84 in Croatia government in doing so, including all the ministries, today is your situation that 97 ministerial assistants are as state officials, that today is 22 members of the Government and 20 deputy ministers. So when we talked about reducing the number of government officials with yesterday, he almost doubled. And that's not the end of it. In fact, not all ministers have their deputies yet, so I'm afraid by the end of this year we're going to double the number of state officials. And if we add to this the team that allows these amendments to the law to enter the ministry together with the Minister or the Government's Office together with the Prime Minister, I think that we will have about 40 people involved in the work of the ministries, who have entered under the State Administration Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33237	Thank you. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33238	You're absolutely right, but don't be afraid. The increase in the number of government officials does not necessarily have to be bad. Because we've seen the government's tendency to make these officials mostly pay. You know, it's like Orwell's '84. First, we're going to raise officials to pay 5 or 6 thousand kuna, and then we're going to cut them 200 or 300, and everyone with a smile is going to tell you that it's not a problem for them. And I am convinced that all of these officials, especially the directors of the Health Services, and then pension insurance who have different salaries, and the public should know, but very high, while their deputies have the same salaries and no one from the Government has been able to explain why, so their assistants have become officials for us to hope that this trend will continue, and that by the end of the term of office of this government may be all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and then it will probably be easier for us to submit this crisis with such new salaries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33239	Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33240	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. You've just confirmed here, as clearly as this government has given up depolitisation of state administration and professionalization. So, when you don't know what you're going to do then the consequence of that is that in a year you change the law three times. But it's very interesting that those you spoke to who had a higher coefficient a week ago are now down 3%. Now you can imagine how much the government would spend on issuing one and the other solutions because if the government said it wouldn't cut the base but it would reduce the coefficient then probably a week ago they knew that these coefficients would be 3% less so they could do less immediately, they shouldn't be replacing them now. But the result of this ignorance is macroeconomic indicators as they are. Because all these great people were supposed to do something at the state administration, serve some kind of laws that would boost the economy, but ultimately, the tax is paid by those who are not asked anything, and these are civil servants and tenants. And the result of that whole story is a 3% reduction in their salary. Although, remember when we discussed here a week ago about the Christmas of these same civil servants and tenants then Minister Mrsic assured us all that it wasn't true, that we were talking nonsense, that we were misleading the public that the wages would be cut. Now it would be convenient to take out a phonogram of his debate and give it to all state officials and tenants what the minister said a week ago, as he spoke today, while also sending a warning or giving it to Croatian pensioners that they do not believe they will not reduce their pensions tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33241	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33242	You've been dealing with finance, and you know the area very well. We had the opportunity to talk to the unions and at a time when we were acting in power and never those conversations were pleasant to whoever was in power, but we tried to find common solutions and listen to everything that the Union of Civil servants and officials in local self-government often suggested to us. Now the head of that union as well as the other unions is the leaders who got the chance to be in the media telling you that this government played them. Because they agreed to cut some of their rights by signing a contract that some rights such as wages would not be touched. Now they get not two weeks later to announce that gross wages will fall in a way that will reduce the coefficients. And that is why I join my colleague Blazekovic, civil servants who are often spoken of in a negative context do not deserve it. In fact, I'm going to illustrate again, all these piles of paper standing in front of you on the basis of which we work in the Parliament and all that has produced at all these papers is the work of civil servants. Those we often talk about in the most negative context for no reason whatsoever. And I repeat, it's not a problem with officials, the problem today is especially with officials and who is becoming the government's will and the law enforcement officer in the Republic of Croatia. And then the reflection of their work is what we have today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33243	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33244	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I would just like to fill you in that you forgot to say that it was necessary to draw attention to the Constitutional Court Report, which, by its report of 23 January 2013, showed that there were problems related to the emergency legal procedure which made it clear that this way was suppressed by a democratic right to a broad debate, that there was nowhere in these urgent procedures a clear explanation which led to the law of urgent procedure and thus ignored the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia and its importance, despite its importance, the Constitutional Court, that the leading institutions of the Constitution, which guarantees democratic order, stability and the protection of human rights, were ignored its warning knowingly and purposely by this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33245	Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33246	A colleague, Djakic, so the problem is that the Constitutional Court said something, it should be more affected by the government than I do by a representative. But you know the government will call for any decisions made by the Constitutional Court only when it finds it appropriate to commend the government for its work. I fear that such cases in the future will be less or less and will not be at all and that the government will simply deafen to the opinion of the Constitutional Court because it is the easiest thing for her to do. The government has no contrary argument to the Constitutional Court to say why this hasty and this ease of speed of regulation is needed, except to meet, as I said in my presentation, the needs of twenty people who are unhappy with the solution of their working status as it has enabled them the current law which we also had objections to and which we hold ungood. And what's being said is just deepening the politicalization of the state administration, that's the obligation we have to the EU long ago that we're going to depolitize here, and we're doing exactly the opposite. It's not going to end well, it's just a question of when those who should take care of it will come to their senses.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33247	Andrej Plenkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33248	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I think that you have pointed out the key aspects of this law in your presentation, and it might be good that the motioner has explained to us the extent of the amendments to Article 74, in particular in paragraph 2 and paragraph 3, because he's dropping two elements of the existing law. One is about where the transferred officer is exercising his rights, I guess this provision goes to the fact that the rights of the transferred officer go to him and his favorite, and it would be good to have seen one analysis of why it is so today, and in paragraph 3 of that article no longer has a category of vacancy, and there is no institution of making available. So both of these provisions were obviously done after an analysis of what happened with the rights of those civil servants who were transferred in the case of a possible one, according to the resignation of the minister's term. I also think it would be good if the Deputy Minister had given us an initial insight into the quality of the work of those people who are employed in cabinets, and without, say, having a state expert exam. Is there any assessment of the work of those people involved in the preparation of documents, for example for the Government without having the minimum requirement for civil servants. I think that would be one correct, one correct procedure of the current government because it seems to me that maybe a little bit of a mind here we're talking about what their input really is. And the other thing you've touched is the question of coefficients. I think we should rightly ask ourselves whether those who do not have a elected mandate from Croatian citizens can have a greater coefficient than those who have it? I don't think that's fair and that this concerns all the representatives in the Croatian Parliament, I don't think it's right that those in the executive power without a mandate have a higher mandate, and not a little more mandate than MPs in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33249	Thank you very much. The answer to Davorin's Mlakar's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33250	Thank you very much. Comrade Plenkovic, I will try to say in this short time what I thought I should skip the speech on behalf of the club. Government officials won't give you any analysis, because they can't do that. I will tell you what the analysis is, 20 unsatisfactory officials that they have been transferred from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to work in the government and to the cabinet of the President or Vice-President of the Government do not want to transfer their working relationship to that same government, fearing that in a year, two or three, when the mandates of this Government cease, they will remain unresolved, but rather want to ensure that their working relationship and labour rights remain in that ministry from which they are temporarily borrowed in the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This could be a figure, it doesn't have to be a government, it doesn't have to be a foreign ministry, it can be a relationship between the ministries, between Parliament and the ministries. Thanks to this brilliant law that is now in force, which I was saying when we objected to that law, it is also possible to transfer the archival to the hospital to be a nurse. That makes this law possible, only the question is whether we have the courage to allow all potential patients to be our nurses. And that's why it hasn't happened yet, and that's why I said we're constantly experimenting with the state administration, for other activities we don't have the courage because we can all find ourselves in a bad position where we're going to be users of such services. And given that the state administration is often the area where you can experiment, then we're allowed laws like this and experiments like this in the state administration. It's an analysis, 20 of them not satisfied with their work or their protection, so the government went to change this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33251	Thank you very much. Gold Comadin, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33252	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. I thank Mr. Mlakar for his discussion, with debate, giving me the opportunity to register for today's parliamentary debate through this replica, because I forgot my parliamentary card today. The Bible says, "Let the stone be cast by him who has not sinned."that's why I don't understand why you HDZ colleagues throw stones because you shouldn't throw anything away. As far as this discussion is concerned about political employment, I am a witness at least in my neighborhood from Rijeka, Prigorje-Gorski Kotar County, that every time the state government was HDZ and especially from 90-2000, there was one, and otherwise every time it was HDZ's authority that literally all directors, all directors of public enterprises or something were members of HDZ when they were elected to office, but literally all of them, from the port administration, director of the school, HZZO, Mirovinski etc., and not just ordinary members, but unusual members. That they were HDZ officials, HDZ officials, parties, borders, etc. So, yeah. One time, a colleague of Orlovic in that Parliament said, and I will quote him: "Yes, and among party people there are experts but among the profession there are high-quality party people." I mean, there's no rules there, so there's this whole thing. But that's usually an exception. And you, my colleague, I'm not sure you're that credible. I remember when you were the secretary of the administration, that you were the same cases when the local self-government units complained about certain situations when HDZ was the complainant, and negatively when SDP was the complainant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33253	Thank you. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33254	I'm glad your colleague Komadin, first of all, was released without a license in the hall and that you were able to register yourself. I'm not happy and it's not polite of you to talk this way, but since you're saying that I wasn't credible, please document it, show it where Mlakar gave different interpretations in favour of HDZ and contrary to the interests of some other parties. I'd be interested to see that. I've never found such a written clue before. In fact, I even had problems with my own party when we brought opinions that some of our members did not respond to. But this is not a question of any personal courage or honesty, nor do I think it was about this debate. You think that no one in HDZ should discuss bad things without saying something rougher to the laws just because some or all of HDZ in acting their duty sinned, did wrong moves. It is up to you and you are a different authority not to do so. Be better than that HDZ if you can. And you are quite the opposite of the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County to me are the reasons behind the HDZ rule, how HDZ has placed political resemblance to all the leaders of all the bodies. Just look at what you are doing in the Primorje-Gorski Kotar County and how your party is in charge or Octore people who act there, and all the way to the head of the state administration's office, let's say in Istria County, a professional you can't find, so you're replacing him because he was the head of the office at the time of HDZ. And I'm not going to use any harsher terms than anyone else. The replacement you could have found for him, and now you don't even know who you'd name because you can't find an adequate replacement. Don't talk about HDZ practice because unfortunately yours is no better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33255	Thank you. Miss twilight replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33256	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My fellow Mlakar, here he is listening to the debate and your particular debate but I would just like to remind you that you may have forgotten in your debate that really this government is not a parole anymore, it becomes true, similarity is a ability, so we can expect that lodger to be set up as a nurse because it has a similarity and has colors then with that and the ability. And you tell your colleagues you've answered well, as far as the stones are concerned, we can't throw them away, God throw them to the Croatian people. Not just the officers, but everyone else. And you know, colleague Mlakar, I don't know if you'll agree, but here's a little bit of thinking, no matter how much of that softener, the bleacher, how much of these media irons should really wash away the shame of passing these laws and similar laws, and ever since everyone so warmly defends it and then they're giving us what you've been doing, and they're like some honest government, so what did you learn from us. Well, fellow Young Man, tell them one more time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33257	And well, this was a replica, too. Replication response, Davorin Mlakar, you haven't answered. Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club Nenad Stazic, vice president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33258	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Representatives of the government, so small the law of only three articles, and so much misunderstanding. And it's such a misunderstanding that a man wonders whether those who debated especially that I mean a colleague of the Mlakars have ever understood this law or by deliberately making it not understood by the public. This law determines exactly the opposite of how a colleague of the Mlakar presented him here. Mlakar, a colleague, says, will be brought to the offices of the government's president, the ministry, by the president of the parliament without competition, and this law will allow their status to be petrified and become officials with the one with a permanent working relationship. Not exactly the opposite of this law. The latest amendments to this law stipulate that not in the ministries as my colleague, Mlakar, but exclusively in the office of the minister, not in the parliament, but exclusively in the office of the President and Vice-President of the Parliament, not in the government, but only in the office of the President and the Vice-President of the Government may be brought to the office of officials without a public tender and employees there. As for the duration of the term of office of that Prime Minister, that of President-in-Office of the Parliament, these vice-presidents and those ministers. When their mandate stops, they leave with them. That's the news we last introduced in the amendments to this law. And how was it until then? How was HDZ? They were admitted from the road and without competition, and then their status was petrified immediately as they were admitted. And when the minister left they didn't leave with him they stayed in the system. When we changed that law, I was talking about my case, my example, when in my last term of office, when HDZ had most of it as chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media. The board's administrative secretary retired and had to bring in a new secretary. Of course, first from the system, of course, not from the outside. A secretary who was Secretary of Parliament at the time of HDZ's majority offered me two people. I had a conversation with them. First of all, I'm asking when did you get a job at the Parliament? And she says 2007. And where did you get a job at the Parliament? In the HDZ Club, the club could employ clerks, meaning no competition officers, which is kind of logical because the club has the right to bring its own people and its members to help them there. And how long were you at the HDZ Club? A year. And then what happened to you? Then I went to some committee. I invite the other one to a conversation that my secretary, the same case, just a year later, employed. I don't know the number I've established for these two, I don't know how many officers who were admitted without a competition, and then they stayed in the system because they didn't because they didn't leave the club. When we changed these laws, the last changes we said no, that's not going to work anymore. The minister has the right to form his office with officials he trusts, but when his term of office ceases, the term of office ends. They don't stay in the system. Now what are these changes talking about? These changes don't talk about the team, they talk about those who come to the cabinets who are already officials. Maybe HDZ took them in as officers. I don't know who took them and under what conditions. But when they enter the president's office, of course they have to preserve their status by then, so that their position would not be interpreted in this revolving system means that they must leave together with the minister, and they came 15 years ago or 10 years ago or during HDZ and have their guaranteed rights from working relationship so that this law is not last amended and applied to them. These changes are necessary. What do they say? When someone enters the Office of Presidents of the Parliament or of the Prime Minister, and if he was already a civil servant, it means that he worked somewhere else as a civil servant, so that when the President of the Parliament stops being President of the Parliament, the Prime Minister stops being Prime Minister so he doesn't fly with him. This law protects you, it protects their labour rights, their official rights. And I don't really understand why it's necessary to make it quite clear that it's written to interpret it quite counter-opposing, unless it's not to fool those who are following the press, I don't know the public at all, or someone has real problems with understanding very simple things, but very simple things. I am now Vice-President of the Parliament, and I have found in that office some officials, not to pass this law after the last amendments, they are officials for a long time, not to bring these amendments to me, when the mandate of Vice-President of the Parliament ceases, and you have stopped working. That's why we say this, that's why we're passing this law. if someone has already been an official, if it comes from another body of establishment from another ministry, if it comes to cabinets on it it will not be used by the revolving system because it remains only for those brought past the competition. So is that a problem to understand? So I don't realize it's so hard to understand? ... You can throw yourself if that's your style, I can handle it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So here very crystal clear what this law is about to achieve. Now, you say the Office of the President of the Republic, so, of course, the Office of the President of the Republic, because it may happen that someone in the accounting system goes on loan to the Office of the President of the Republic, and when the President of the Republic is out of office, so that he doesn't run out of mandate, they are protected by this law. So, I repeat clearly, not those who have come to revolving but those who come as officials because they have been for years not to stop their working relationship. Now so much for the law, there are three articles. Well, if there were 103, I'd still realize that it can't be understood, but that three articles can't be understood, very clearly written. Now, let's talk about practice a little bit. So I'm not going to talk about the Buljubashics, so, gentlemen, my dear, how are you not embarrassed to accuse this government after the crime of Buljbasic? So the man was working for you in the party and he was getting paid in a public enterprise. And you did it on purpose, and you knew where he was getting his salary, and you all watched him work there, and now you're complaining to someone because he wants to protect the officers and the ones you brought without a competition, but they're employees now. Protect them, and that's what we have to protect them. These are the reasons why this law is proposed, these are the reasons why we will vote this law to protect these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33259	Now we'll move on the replicas. Davorin's Mlakar's first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33260	Vice President Stazić, I'll take it as a compliment that on behalf of the club, you actually gave me a lecture and you didn't talk about the club's positions, but I'll try to answer you in this short time. I don't know what you're up to, but I'm glad you've given me a proper understanding of this law. And I could have suspected what you wanted to achieve with this law, but that's not how you wrote it. I'm not going to talk about my experiences, of course. I wasn't Vice President of the Parliament. But I was Minister in '94. A year. I also found a whole series of civil servants that I inherited from someone who had a working relationship in the government and continued to work both before and after me in that same system. I want to tell you the next one, so I'll fill you in. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. State officials shall be deployed to office in the cabinet of the Minister for a specified period of time until the date of termination of the minister's term of office. A civil servant can now be following these new changes of two types – one which is so to say career and the other that we do not use these revolving stunts that we have heard, but he told you when presenting the law of the Deputy Minister on Contracting Officers although there are different views about this theory but irrelevant. So you can become an officer who has already been before, or you will become an official on the day you get a solution on your schedule and you are admitted off the road to what you say about Buljubašići and the like. And under Article 3, you shall say, at the end of the term of office, the Ministers referred to in paragraph 1 shall, in those same cabinets, be assigned to the vacancy for which they meet the conditions. That's what we're talking about. And I'll warn you when you're interpreting the law and the cabinet minister is the ministry. And the Office of the President of the Republic and the Office of the President is your organisational unit and the institution I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33261	Thank you. Time. The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33262	Let's get this straight. Article 1 State officials shall be deployed to office in the cabinet of the minister for a specified period of time until the date of termination of the minister's term of office. If, therefore, a state official of the same or other state authority is deployed to the office of the Minister, the position of a civil servant who is already a civil servant, not coming from the road, who is already a civil servant, means that the provisions of the Transfer Act are applicable accordingly. So he's been transferred, remains a civil servant. At the end of the term of office of the Minister, therefore these officials, who were also officials, are assigned to the jobs of equal complexity of the transactions in the state body from which they were transferred. They were moved from somewhere. So they were already employed, which is why they were moved. And the complexity from which they were relocated for which the same degree of education was prescribed and the work experience needed in the same duration so that it could not be demoted. It means to keep his position from which he was borrowed. Is it difficult to understand God’s people?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33263	Replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33264	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, Mr. Stazic, you have discussed this debate in a rather interesting way. I saw that you were a well-known satire writer and that debate seemed to me that way. It's hard to explain a law like this, but you tried. Maybe it's time to write a few new satires, say it's a forged state form in your term of office. There would be a lot of good things to say through and such a form to the Croatian public. However, we are talking about some facts, and there is already experience for that. We had ministers who came and some have gone already and after a few months someone a little longer, someone a little later. It would be good for the Deputy Minister to tell us whether those who may have come under that law without competition in these cabinets or offices as you say and gone with those ministers, so let's say that's really a law that respects. The question is, are they? We don't know, we don't know. How do we know? These people don't know anything. You say in the term of the HDZ government people came from the road and the others. Simply put from the road and the others. And now I quote an example of a judicial procedure conducted on the basis of the request of the DORH, where for some of the leaders, a public firm has been looking for 12 years in prison for hiring people but not for those who have responded to the conditions of God but for some who are guilty. Well, that's terrible! And we have a law where people enter a system of state administration that costs us 50 million kunas in four years without a public competition. Now let's imagine how nice it looks to the public. And what does that look like? Well, we've had a play and complaint committee recently. The Istrian Police Administration so a few people have chief solutions is only one post of chief of police administration. Well, that's terrible! And they all have solutions for the same workplace. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33265	Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33266	Let's start from the last one. That's what your party president Karamarko introduced to you that he has issued six solutions for the same workplace. ... Well, I know if you don't know or pretend you don't or don't dare say it. [[You can't hear me.]] And now you're asking if someone's gone with the minister? It is. You don't know, but I'll tell you. Minister Holly had her head of the office when Secretary Holly left and the head of the office. There you go, very simple. No, she went to the U.S., went to the U.S. So don't think she's staying or getting a job in another government body because that's not what this government is doing. This government doesn't work, Buljubashi. Well, that's your practice, your practice. And as for satire, you could write a good satire but about those who don't understand simple laws. They'd be very funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33267	Josip Djakic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33268	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, so I need to read you article 74c. which refers to the fact that, at the posts referred to in Article 74b(1) of this Act, a person may be admitted to the public service for a specified period of time without an earlier public invitation to tender, i.e. a public service advert. And then such persons to be in Article 74b in paragraph 1(3) may be deployed at the end of the ministerial term where they are located and where they meet the conditions, if there is no vacancy at which they can be deployed, the provisions of this law on making available shall apply accordingly. So I'm thinking what are we talking about? Why do you want to cloud this reality that's ahead of us? So such unprofessional, no professional exams, no internships, no performances that would meet the criteria, you want to hire them in the state service afterwards as civil servants. I do not see why you wish to skip this paragraph of Article 3 of Article 74b which clearly states that, at the end of the term of office, the Minister of Staff referred to in paragraph 1 of this Law will be deployed. Well, that's clearly what it says. What makes you think we can't read? Why do you think we don't know how to look into the law? Why do you think that the Constitutional Court that made it clear to you that you were ignoring his opinions and opinions about the urgency of the procedure, and now you want to impose it to save jobs for those who are potentially at risk? Or hire those who possibly need the President's office to save the economic situation in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33269	Replication response, Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33270	Well, now I really can't figure this out. You are quoting paragraph 74.b of paragraph 3, and that item 3 is changing, it is changing, that item 3 is changing which you are now quoting. And how does he change? So look at what it says, the 74.b items 2 and 3 change and they say. Well, do you, now, five times a man, explain something to you, and you either can't, or you won't understand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33271	Young Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33272	Thank you, Vice President. After all, you have some delusions because you have experience in Dubrovnik-Neretva County as it is done. Certain directors, i.e. the Office for Emergency Medicine, shall send an official request to the Employment Office in 24.12.2012 for a reception request. The competition is being opened, 25.12.2012. So it starts on Christmas and ends on 1.01.2013. Here, that's how it's served and how it's done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33273	And all these replicas have been about the subject so far. Please, we have another replica, so we'll give it a break. Andrey Plenkovic, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33274	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Croatian Vice-President Stazic, you have set an example that these changes proposed by the Government would help someone who works in your cabinet and is currently a civil servant in order not to lose their jobs. Do I understand you correctly? Well, I don't think that's true. If someone is a civil servant to you today and is currently working in your cabinet, by the current provisions of the law, he can't possibly lose his job. The measurement of these amendments and what I have replicated to my colleague, Mlakar, may not have been well explained to us by a representative of the Government, the measure is to release a second sentence of Article 74b(2), which speaks of where the state official who has moved is exercising his rights. So based on an analysis of these situations where someone was an employee of a department came somewhere in the cabinet, whether his rights were more favourable in the new body where he was transferred or where he was. It's a measure that I think, in the opening presentation of the deputy minister, may not be well-intentioned enough. Also, in the present future amendment, paragraph 3 no longer has a category of job openings but it is about that someone who has been transferred to the cabinet permanently, without any dilemma, is returned to the workplace of the appropriate profession from which they came regardless of whether they are filled. So my replica is very clearly focused, and I don't think you trying to spread it to us on the example of someone in your office is standing. These changes in this regard will not help you, and it might be good to include the Deputy Minister so that he can explain to us in substance what someone is more favourable to what you have and what is not mentioned anywhere, which is Article 80(4), which speaks of a permanent and temporary transfer where an official who has been temporarily transferred to another state body is exercising all the rights of the state service in the state body from which he was transferred. So now we're going back to the general regime of the special regime that this government has brought before what? About a year or so. That's what we're talking about. We're not talking about something about those who came out of the state administration system. I'm actually following the letters of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33275	Thank you. The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33276	Let's explain it to my colleague Plenkovic. There are two kinds of officers working in cabinets. There's one in the cabinets before, and they're government officials. The minister found them and stayed in the cabinet or now lends them as civil servants because they suit him. Look, this guy's doing well, I could really use him in my office, so he's asking if you're gonna move into my office, and he says I will, but he's a civil servant. And the other kind of these is, let's call them contractual revolvings or whatever you want, they're the ones that were admitted without a competition and leaving with the minister. To protect these first ones so no one would tell them tomorrow, but I'm sorry, so you worked in the cabinet of the minister, so you're flying along with the minister, so it doesn't happen, so we're bringing these changes. And your invitation to the Deputy Minister to participate in this debate I welcome and I ask him to try to explain it again to you to understand. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33277	The deputy minister decided to give answers at the end of the debate. And now we're going to give a break by 3:30, given that we're going to continue the debate and we're going to do another item on 15th, which should be assumed to be a debate on point 15, to finish the committee. My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33279	Thank you, Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. Here we continue this afternoon's debate on the law. There are few parliamentarians and parliamentary deputies in the assembly even though the debate in the morning was fierce and perhaps crossed the frameworks of the law that we are still going to discuss, and here we are still discussing, which we should have discussed. First of all, the position of the HDSSB club is that we think that, surely, the civil servants are doing their job well in the services in which they work and that they should be protected by law and already in light of this debate that is today, it has happened in public that public servants and public employees in the public service are grossly reduced by 3%, so it is not exactly the nice news for people who work in the public service. Given the situation that, and also because of the economic crisis, but also because of the situation in which Croatia is located, their wages are reduced by 3%, so that all together seems a little demotive. These are only, therefore, short amendments to the law in Article 3 and what this bill, the final draft of the law, first of all, is that there was no need for the law to be passed by an urgent procedure, the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and the interpretation of the Constitutional Court speak of how they should be or should be passed by the laws of urgency in the Croatian Parliament. This, however, is a matter of a time period which concerns the current government's mandate, a coalition that is in power, so that there was no need for an emergency procedure but simply might be a need for this law to be more clearly nomotechnically arranged, but there was also time for it to go to regular procedure precisely because of discussions and issues that have opened up in the debate over the misunderstandings that have arisen. Therefore, it is perfectly acceptable that this decision of the law that civil servants who, from different ministries and other services, move to, to work in offices, so ministers, vice-presidents of the Croatian Parliament, vice-president of the Government, the office of the Prime Minister and in an appropriate way to the founding units of the President of the Republic of Croatia, be given the right to use all benefits and rights in the service if we understand well, in which they are transferred, thus exercising those rights to work where they have been transferred, with the possibility of returning, therefore, to their permanent service from the body from which they have left, in a manner, in a manner that they have worked in which they have exercised their duties. We are sure that it would not be good, we did not support the bill when it came to the possibility of employment, so without tendering, without the need to check the State Expert Exam, without those legislative provisions on progress in the service, that the term of office, namely the working relationship of those civil servants who were received in such a way, ceases on the day of termination of office of the Minister or of the Vice-President of the Parliament, of the President of the Republic of Croatia or of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia. Yes, therefore, their working relationship with the civil servants ceases after the term of office of those officials has ceased. It shouldn't be here at all, so it should be slow. We were not about to take such a step in the first law we passed, the official receives, it is about 500 employees, yet it is about some of the lives of these people, if they are willing to take the risk that after the term of office of the Prime Minister, Deputy Prime Minister or Vice-President of the Parliament, their working relationship will stop, and that is their free will, free will of the one who took them into that service. So this is one law that shouldn't have caused, maybe so much controversy. It is therefore a technical solution to the question that civil servants who are in a permanent working relationship have been transferred from the bodies in which they have worked to another body, to exercise rights according to the new job they have been moved to, and that, following these additional amendments to Articles 74 and 3 of the Law, they are returned to their services in accordance with their preparation and place of work until then, they are deployed to the same office from which they came. So it's quite clear and understandable from this law and we don't find it controversial. So, there have been doubts, and I'm sure the government's representative in that explanation will also say that we didn't hear before noon, saying that this is not about these employments of civil servants who came under the mandate of the current government. So, by their free choice and employment, they will stop working when the government's mandate is over. We therefore accept this part of the law regarding the return of officials, the state of the service in which they have worked so far, and since we have not accepted this form of employment without competition, we still believe that it is a precedent that the government has made in its term of office. The employees, they agreed to this way of employment, so it's a matter of free choice. We will be abstentioned in voting on this law, but we understand the intensity of the law and the intention of the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33280	Thank you very much. We're now moving on to an individual debate. The first in line is a colleague of Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33281	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister. So here I have no problem with Article 74b, which says: "Article 74b of the Law on State Servants, state officials are assigned to the cabinet of the Minister for a specified period of time until the day of the term of office of the Minister. If a government official of the same or other state body is deployed in the cabinet of the Minister, the provisions of this Transfer Act shall apply accordingly, and the civil servant, the rights and services shall be exercised in the state body to which he is transferred. On the termination of the term of office of the Minister, those officials shall be assigned to the vacancy for which they fulfil the conditions, where there is no vacancy to which the relevant provisions of this law concerning the making available of officials may be deployed.". And I think it was supposed to stop there and then everything would be fine. I have a problem with this Article 74, which says the Law on civil servants at work in the cabinet of ministers may be admitted to the State Service for a certain period of time without the previous implementation of a public tender or a public service ad. Those civil servants cannot be deployed to jobs outside the cabinet of the minister. Those civil servants shall not be subject to the provision of that law on probationary work, the state expert examination, the transfer and the promotion and the state service may cease before the Minister's term of office expires on the basis of the Minister's decision. I have submitted an amendment to this article because I asked that this article be deleted for a clear reason which, given the large number of civil servants employed and that further cuts in the salaries of civil servants were announced, any new employment of public officials, and without the prior implementation of the public tender, and even for a certain time represents huge expenditure on the state budget in this difficult economic crisis. Any business within the cabinets of the President and Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the President and Vice-President of the Government and the cabinets of the Head of State offices may be covered by redistribution within the aforementioned body of government already employed civil servants. This would prevent unnecessary burdens on the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33282	Thank you. The Republic has Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33283	Dear colleagues, Tomasic, you have submitted an amendment to the text of the provisions of the applicable law that are being amended, and therefore this whole debate of yours as well as this amendment of yours is completely meaningless. You can only submit an amendment to the text of the law in which we plead, in which we are discussing, but not to the articles of the laws that are being amended. So you didn't understand anything, and even this law, you're proving it with this amendment of yours that professional services will refuse you because it's completely counter-businessed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33284	Replication response, Ruža Tomasic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33285	Well, fellow Stazic, maybe I don't understand the amendment, maybe I don't understand what it is, but I do understand that you want to hire people past any competition, those people that you want to come to, and we have so many civil and public servants who have here in the Parliament, I believe there's 20% too much. So why don't these civil servants redistribute, redistribute where they need them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33286	And last in an individual debate, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33287	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a colleague and a colleague, Mr. Deputy Minister. We have before us a law on amendments and additions to the law on civil servants, although the proposed amendment and addition for the purpose of equalising as a way of filling the posts in the Office of the President of the Republic with a way of filling the posts in the Office of President of the Croatian Parliament, in the Office of President of the Parliament, who is not head of the Ministry and cabinet of State Office Representatives. These changes have been made by an emergency procedure which is not actually democratic practice and they seem to be small and irrelevant but essentially change the matter and way of employment and the further remnant in the service of civil servants. Well, it's so obvious that by Article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia shall be governed by the formation and part-time office of the President of the Republic by the President of the Republic by its decision of Article 3(3). Decisions on the Office of the President of the Republic shall be settled on the issue of officials appointed in the Office of the President. So this law has absolutely nothing to do with what is the authority of the constitutional president of the Republic of Croatia. The Regulation on the Internal Order of the Office shall provide for the names of internal establishment units, their structure, part-circuit, mode of work, the number of required civil servants, the furniture with a reference to their basic tasks, tasks and professional conditions necessary for their performance, their responsibilities and other matters relevant to the work in an office which is not governed by the decision. Jobs from the office’s work, depending on the type of complexity, professional preparation and other conditions, shall be carried out by civil servants and subsistence officers assigned to the office’s office and by the furniture’s posts. State officials and officers of the office shall exercise their rights, obligations and responsibilities in accordance with the law governing the position, rights, responsibilities and salaries of civil servants and subsistence. It follows from all the above that these amendments and the addition of the law should not have taken place at all because these issues are decided by the President of the Republic by his decision. Therefore, the intricacies and ignorance in the drafting of this bill are evident because or are completely ignored the rules governing this issue as well as the provision of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia or the Proposer does not know and does not understand the formation of the state authority prescribed by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is both very worrying that this bill comes from the Ministry of Administration in which the work of administrative professional services related to the system and the establishment of the state administration and local, regional, regional self-government and administrative inspection tasks in all authorities of the state administration and local, regional and regional self-government. Furthermore, if we observe what has been done, we need to point out the following crucial mistakes. In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 74b, civil servants shall be assigned to office in the cabinet of ministers for a specified period of time until the date of termination of the minister's term of office. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The State Civil Service Officer shall exercise his rights in the State Authority in which he has been transferred and, finally, in Article 3 of Article 74b, says that at the end of the term of office, the Minister of Staff referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be assigned to the vacancy for which the conditions are met. It says so clearly, and I don't know what we're arguing about today. If we want to explain it this specifically, then you're ignoring it. If there is no vacancy to be deployed, the provisions of this law on the making available of officials shall be amended accordingly. It is therefore wrong to allow civil servants referred to in paragraph 1 of Article 74 b and, upon the end of the term of office of ministers, to be assigned to vacancy for which they fulfil the conditions, as their working relationship ceases on the day of termination of the minister's term of office and cannot be deployed to jobs outside the cabinet of the minister. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The second reason why such a formulation is wrong is that Article 1(1) of Article 74b defines the position in the cabinet of the minister rather than in the manner in which the official is admitted. This issue deals with Article 1 of Article 74c, so the provision of paragraph 3 can apply only to those civil servants who are already employed in the state service and have their place of work from which they have been transferred to work in the cabinet of the minister. It is not clear how such a big mistake could be undermined by the Minister of the Administration in order to allow such a formulation to permanently employ employees whose employment is terminated by the termination of the Minister’s term of office or the conversion of a work contract to a certain time in an indefinite working contract, which is explicitly made possible by the provisions of Article 61(1) of the Law. Furthermore, it is not clear why paragraph 2 of Article 74b is deleted. Service rights are exercised in the state bodies in which it was transferred. Such an amendment introduces legal uncertainty as it is known or the law in this section does not regulate where the transferred official will receive wages and exercise other material rights arising from the labour contract, if not in the state body which has been transferred, and if it is moved to another state body. In particular, the provisions of this law relating to the transfer do not refer to which public authorities will pay salaries and other material rights to an official who has been transferred to another State body. In view of the fact that the law on civil servants when it speaks of the transfer of speeches or of the regular transfer, it is therefore permanent or temporary for a maximum period of one year for the purpose of replacing the absent official and of relocating at the request of the staff member. Articles 74b and 74c create a new situation that the provisions of the laws relating to relocation are not regulated and can therefore not apply in this case. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. The law on civil servants, despite the already reasoned error in these additions, needs to be pointed to the wrong formulation. In fact, it is certainly possible for these articles to be employed primarily by persons who are not employed in the public service, for whom the civil servants referred to in paragraph 5 of Article 74b and paragraph 5 of Article 74c will contribute to the better functioning of their work of the office. This formulated supplement of paragraph 5 of Article 74b and paragraph 5 of Article 74c is simply wrong because it enables the President of the Republic of Croatia to hire officials anywhere despite Article 74b and Article 74c's intensities to allow employment exclusively in the cabinet of ministers, saying that it makes it impossible for the staff to deploy to work outside the cabinet. Accordingly, the President of the Republic of Croatia may hire a civil servant only in his office, which is defined as such in the Internal Order Regulation and as such must also be stated in the law. In any event, this is the question of how it has already been explained or has not been resolved by the Law on State Servants and is therefore complemented by paragraph 5 of Article 74b and paragraph 5 of Article 74c. Once again, however, it should be pointed out that it is about allowing certain civil servants to employ persons in the state according to their own right, not persons who meet the legal requirements. These civil servants are not accepted through a tender they do not have to satisfy any of the professional conditions prescribed by law. All other civil servants are in a subordinate position with regard to these persons, not to mention citizens outside the state service who also meet the legal requirements but cannot even dream of being employed in the Office of the President of the Republic. Therefore, the very existence of such employment in the Law on Civil Servants calls into question the constitutionality of this law. Furthermore, this proposal for a law is adopted by an urgent procedure, although there is no reasonable reason to do so. In the light of the reasons for the adoption of an emergency law, the applicant shall state the reasons for ensuring that the Office of the President of the Republic is better functioning. We really don't understand the extension since there's no explanation for why. The president's office works worse without that civil servant or the President's Office does not function at all or the president of the country does not have enough professional people to function to warn of everything that is happening in this chaotic state in the Republic of Croatia. this should not be stated for what reasons. Special attention should be paid to the Constitutional Court's report on the procedures for the adoption of the Law on the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of 23 January 2013 in which the Constitutional Court shows a problem relating to the procedure for the adoption of the laws under emergency procedure. And it's clearly said in this way that this is the most state body that cares about constitutionality and legality... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33288	Nenad the Trail of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33289	My colleague Djakić is amazingly to what extent and with what perseverance you insist on completely misreading clear legal provisions. I'd still understand that if you were the initial but the man explained to you five times what this law means and you can't understand it. Then you say this form of the Office of the President of the Republic and the part-time work of officials, so the Office of the President of the Republic shall be governed by the decision of the President of the Republic. Well, it's clear that that's right, that's right, that's what you said all right, but what does that have to do with this law? So this law is governed by the Office of the President of the Republic, no connection. You know what this law does, how can you not understand that? This law regulates that if an official from a ministry goes from this Chamber to the Office of the President of the Republic, so the President of the Republic ceases his mandate to cease, that the official loses his job. So how do you do it? You are now saying that this law governs the formation and the part-time president of the Republic. Well, listen, that's what a fifth grade kid in elementary school would have figured out. I really, really don't understand you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33290	Replication response, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33291	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Vice President. You really make us illiterate all the time. However, in the very reasoning of the law, see clearly what it says. Here in this paragraph, which I have understood at the end of the term of office of ministers, those officials shall be assigned to the vacancy for which they meet the conditions. Where there is no vacancy to be deployed, the provisions of this Act concerning the making available of officials shall apply accordingly. So do you think that I wrote this, or did the legislators of this law write it? So look, read why you want to sell empty demagogy to people, to Croatian people, to MPs and MPs. You want to hire people who are later assigned as civil servants to certain jobs and without qualifications, without anything pure political nepotism, as you are used to. You're cutting everything off not just by this law. You defy the Constitutional Court, the European Union, democracy, pluralism. You have destroyed everything because you no longer want anything but what we can catch, we can continue to hold power and mandate because the people will soon eat you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33292	Finally on behalf of the HDZ Club, five-minute debate between colleagues Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33293	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. There's been a heated debate, and it turns out we're all up for the same thing, and that's good. We did not understand each other, our colleague assured us of one thing, the law says the other, the proponent of thought the third, so we will finally try again to plead for some understanding in Parliament even though it is difficult for us to do so. The first thing that we would comment again and perhaps it is appropriate to suggest to the Proposer when an emergency procedure is proposed, which the proposer probably thinks is neither commercially justified at all, nor is it necessary just to get rid of a small number of people's working relationships as soon as possible. It would be like saying opportunely, wisely, politely to give up an emergency procedure and that this law that won't make significant moves in the state administration will be passed in two readings. Well, we're going to repeat one more request from our club to consider that maybe two readings is the right measure to discuss proposals under this law. Two, I believe I'm not even here in a position to stand up for the Office of the President of the Republic or to be given the right by someone, but I find it offensive that in an explanation for the adoption of the law it is said that there is a need to provide assumptions for the establishment of a better functioning of the Office of the President of the Republic. That's what we've been talking about. I assume both the president and most officials think that this office works well. Whether it will work better this way is a big question, but that way it is to protect civil servants if you want to. And we're going to suggest that that's the way it is. Therefore, the HDZ Club will offer amendments to this law. I would take the liberty because I have so much time not to read them all, but what everyone said about us trying to turn into a legal norm that would say, "It's about the officers who are said to come and go with politics, or ministers, or individual resolutions." On the occasion of accepting the amendment, the officials referred to in paragraph 1 shall be those who have been admitted to the State Service for a period of time without the public tender procedure or a public service advert shall cease at the end of the term of office of the Minister by force of this law. And we think it's a solution where we've more precisely determined what everyone has claimed to be in law and not true. So, those who came without a competition, without checking their quality for any particular job will be employed at the places for which the law provides that it is possible and their state service will stop by force of law at the moment when the term of office of the boss they worked for ceases, forgive these colloquial terms. But I think it's quite clear to understand when the mandate of an individual leader who had the right to team up with his office in this way ceases by law enforcement and the state service of those who are in a particularly different way accepted into service than any other civil servants. And what's important here to emphasize isn't about two, it's about at least three kinds of people. Therefore, officials of some who have been found in these special services or cabinets, others who have come under this procedure without a public competition. And thirdly, who, under the agreement of the leaders of different bodies in the country, were taken over on these matters. We are here saying that one round of them, and these are those that have been accepted without a competition, can be a civil servant in those places and cannot be deployed as it says in the law when they are admitted to other organisational units of the ministry, so that their term of office by law ceases at the moment of the end of the term of office and of that head. We will offer such an amendment. Since everyone thinks we're talking about the same thing, I don't think there's gonna be any reason for this amendment to be accepted in this kind of or similar text. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33294	Thank you very much. Replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33295	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So here's Mr. Mlakar, I would just once again like to point out to you what the Constitutional Court has said and it reminds him in its report of January 23rd that the Republic of Croatia belongs to parliamentary democracies, that the multilateral democratic system is within it, that the rule of law is as the highest values of its constitutional order and says that the common practice of passing laws by an urgent procedure violates the very essence of parliamentaryism. Such practice defies the importance of democratic procedures and the obligation to respect them and does not allow public debates on essential social issues to weaken this and the basis for developing and improving dialogue culture without which there is no democratic society. The right created in such procedures that are not in line with the spirit of parliamentaryism does not come under citizens' trust, while at the same time undermining their trust in democratic institutions. Here's what the Constitutional Court says, esteemed gentlemen and Mr. Deputy Minister. A fellow Mlakar made that clear in his readings, but for this society, the Kukuriku coalition is not worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33296	And Nenad Stazic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33297	Well, first of all, I am infinitely glad that the HDZ club has finally reached the position of the government and that we want the same thing, that you said that we want the same thing. But in that sense, your amendment is unnecessary. Why? Because Article 1 of the current law of this article reads: "State officials shall be assigned to office in the cabinet of ministers for a specified period of time until the date of termination of the minister's term of office." That item does not change. So they're leaving with the minister. It's about the content of your amendment. What does this law say, however? If, in the office of office of the Minister, a state official of the same or other state body is deployed, the provisions of the Transfer Act shall apply accordingly. That means he's being treated if he came from some ministry as a clerk to stay. It's the content of this law. Following the end of the term of office, ministers who came to the ministry from the second ministry are deployed to places from which they came. That's the meaning of this law. I am so glad that you understood him and I hope that we will reach a consensus at the end. Now the deputy minister will have the final word, hopefully we'll clear it up here. First of all, in the public interest. Because it's not the point here, it's really not the goal here, so if the government wanted it, it wouldn't even change that law. Well, she would normally write to officials and the minister can take them as long as he wants when he wants to without a public competition and they stay forever. Well, that's what the government would have written if she wanted to. The government wants to protect those who are already officers with this law. If we agree to protect them, then you will accept this law. If you don't think they should be protected, they should be thrown on the street after the minister leaves, so say it. It's the only people you've ever received in the service, some of them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33298	Thank you. Replication response, Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33299	Mr. Vice President, neither did the government understand our remarks at least so far in the debate nor did the HDZ Club stand at the government's position as it says in the law. What I have referred to is the fact that in all your actions and colleagues who have spoken about this law, good intentions are being talked about how to regulate certain working relationships of people in the state administration. And thank you for teaching me, but you're wrong. And you're wrong because you read the law only partially. You too have read exactly the first two paragraphs of Article 74b, but you failed to read paragraph 3 of that same article. There is, and I was talking about it, a few categories of civil servants. Since we advocated that those who have been admitted in a special way to leave the office after the end of the term of office and as far as I understand with any of us there is no dilemma about how it should be, then that dear vice president in law should also be written. As it says, this cannot be achieved because the articles refer to these people, and very often rather than talking about concrete officials, talk about civil servants referred to in paragraph 1, and there they are all in cabinets and found also those who came without a competition. When you want it to be clear, I have read about the opportunity to read the article next, or item of the next article, and it will be clear to everyone that these people will not be protected but that their working relationship will stop by the end of their term of office.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33300	Thank you very much. And the final word of the promoter, Deputy Minister of Administration, Mr. Zoran Piculjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33301	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. First of all, I thank you for this fruitful, natural debate where we did not present the same interpretation of this proposal which the Government has put forward in this House of Commons, but it seems to me that the norms that the applicant has given and are related to the development of the institute of this specific admission into the service of the state without the call for tenders must be interpreted that this norm that the applicant has given can be defended and there is no dilemma in its application, there should be no dilemma in its application. First, what is safe and what the first proposer gave is that the norm and this institute are equally applied to the Office of the President of the Republic. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 107(2) of the basic Regulation. The Constitution of the Croatian State, the Republic of Croatia, which states that the establishment of the office is governed by the President's decision, but also by this high house adopted the State Officials Act in 2005 which established that working relations, official relations and these provisions of this law apply to civil servants by taxing in the office of the President of the Republic. One is a detour, and the other is official relations. Therefore, in this part of the law, this law certainly is not anti-constitutional, it only seeks, it only goes in favor of an equal solution for all cabinets or structural units within, one of the founding units within the president's office. That's the first part, the second part that caused quite certainly more of a struggle is actually what we can't call just good intentions, the intentions are quite certain, not only good but are the same as this institute was offered in its original form, which is that those who, that the institute that even fellow Mlakar explained, which includes practically 3 categories of persons. Persons who come outside the state service shall have one type of application of this regulation, persons who are either transferred from the state service or transferred from the body to the cabinet, from the same body to the cabinet of the minister, or transferred from other bodies to another state body, to have, request, a similar but not the same legal regulation. What is important, it seems to me that we are not here, the rule is not defined by the provisions of this proposal, the rule that, in Article 74b paragraph 1 and Article 74c, paragraph 1 for persons who are admitted to the public service for a period of time without a previous public invitation to tender, that is to say, for those persons who are not subject to the competition and who are not civil servants, this law does not touch these amendments. These amendments only indicate that, at the end of the term of office, the ministers referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article shall be deployed to the workplaces of equal complexity of the transactions in the state body from which they were transferred. The move can only happen to those who are in the state service, so this exception only protects, or regulates only the working, labour and legal status and the relationship of officials who are in the state service. The amendment goes in a similar way, I haven't been able to see it until the end, it goes in a similar tone, but we think this norm quite, quite precisely defines this rule that, this rule. What is important is that he also noticed a colleague, the esteemed representative Plenkovic, is that he practically moves here, ensures, in some respects, protects, protects the workplace or secures the job of the one who was in the cabinet of the minister or any other office of the vice president or president of the Croatian Parliament, etc. that it may be returned to the workplace of equal complexity without being made available, and to it shall not be applied to the institution of making available. It seems to us that this kind of crazy for people leaving the state, from one body to another body, and who are elected to the cabinets of ministers in responsible places, indeed has their own deep racio, not against but also the favourite of civil servants who have taken over the service and who will eventually return to their own body. And then, of course, it is indeed a suspended provision of this law that, to exercise rights in the body in which they were moved, we return to the general norm that the rights are realized in the body from which they were moved and to which they will eventually return. Now here's just a few data that could really be said and at the very beginning, I'm sorry I didn't say that then. In the broadest sense, such cabinet jobs are in 290, systematised 294 in all, state authorities and state administration bodies. Outside the state service, 81 employees have been admitted for the time being, so without the tender procedure. Of which, in the Croatian Parliament 7, 10 in the Government and 64 in all ministries, all of those other two hundredths were admitted or transferred, it was arranged by moving from one body to another body or within the same body. For example, in the ministry where I come from, one official was admitted outside the state service, one person was admitted outside the state service to the cabinet of the minister, and 9 were deployed, 9 were deployed from the ministry and these are all officials who were in the ministry for at least 3 or 4, and many more years. That is, these are the facts, here on the application of this institute, about the application of this institute in practice. What is also important is that in the regulation, that these jobs are not exactly so, jobs where no conditions are prescribed for, for example, for the post of adviser to the minister, the conditions are laid down in the classification regulation, and for other workplaces, the conditions must be laid down in the Internal Order Regulation. There seems to be no, there should be no dispute about the application of this institute as rules and as its exception, and that in no way does it go and it is not written like that, nor can it be interpreted, interpreted to derrogate, practically this institute, to derogate the basic institute that those who came to the state service with the minister and go with him if they came without the public tender in the manner offered by the novelist of this law. Proposers will take a close look at all the amendments that have arrived, unfortunately we have not yet been able to do so, and then we will be clear about them. I thank you once more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33302	Thank you very much, Deputy. Andrej Plenkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33303	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, thank you for this information that we have advocated in the debate that both we MPs and the Croatian public hears the number of civil servants or those who are employed outside the state service in cabinets. So 294 of which 81 out of service is relevant for our debate. I would like to appeal to the ministry that perhaps in a year's time after two years of implementation of the institute, you will give us one analysis of the quality of work and of the people who have come to the most relevant places of any ministry or institution in the Republic of Croatia. What I'm also interested in, I think you've now been a little more specific about the intensity of these changes to tell us that in practice you will ensure the implementation of Article 74(b) of paragraph 3 in a new sentence. So how will you guarantee someone who has been invited to work in the cabinet and until then has been, say, the head of a sector or a department to work in a cabinet for example, the President of the Croatian Parliament, that you will be able to return him to a post that suits him not only with the complexity of business, not only with the experience and education he has but also with a very likely coefficient. Does this mean that these vacant places will practically be filled in in some other way as acting officers. We need to be precise that we know what this new formulation of Article 74(b) of the 3rd kill creates for the empty place when someone is moved, so please explain it to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33304	Replication response, Zoran Piculjan, Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33305	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. Surely this norm is one big newspaper and it seems to me that the raid of this standard is good, and that the promoter had a practical intention to protect, i.e. to ensure an equal position or equal quality in the complexity of the affairs and responsibilities of the one who will return to the workplace by respecting the fact that he worked in a difficult workplace in the cabinet of the Minister or in the office of the Prime Minister or Deputy Prime Minister. How to secure is not the least simple thing. Fair implementation in the way that you have shown or that someone is temporarily deployed to that workplace or, of course, that someone, when they return, is assigned to a job in the same complexity, which does not mean that it must always be the same job. Here the point seems to me that whoever showed and well showed the job in a complex design unit, one of the most complex ones of the state body or the state administration body should not be made available or not deployed because it returns to its own let's call it the parent house. The logic of the institute is clear, it seems of course, the problems in application may be, it may be not hide but as in any law and here is the intensity of exactly what is sometimes missing, and this is consistent application of the memo in practice. That's what imperfection is, but the solution we offer and that makes us good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33306	The replica of Davor's Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33307	Thank you well-respected Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, I expected in your final address, which was focused on what you should actually be congratulated for the fact that a small law has caused quite a controversy. I have not heard in your answer what was our first remark, which is why the Proposer cannot consider the fact that this law is not passed by emergency procedure. I believe that you are aware that the reasons for the urgency of the procedure do not exist and that it would be much simpler for the Government to refer this law to two readings because it would first and foremost resolve justified criticism that the law that addresses the working relationship of civil servants issues brings overnight instead of providing an opportunity to discuss it and to pass the regular parliamentary procedure. I didn't get an answer from you because our first request was that the promoter give up an emergency procedure. Second, you are this law as you said you were trying to resolve the working relationship of civil servants and in some ways protect them by leaving them with the possibility of returning to the institution from which they were transferred. I didn't want to talk about it any more. The Institute of Transfers, if necessary, is the basis, and all that we discussed today is an exception to the rules. That would make sense if it was such a structured law so we could talk about the rule first and then the exceptions. But since we're all on the same track somewhere, we're convinced that the people who are prepared in a special way leave after the term of office don't see any reason to clarify the provisions of the article I mean 74 c or how I read to you the amendment of our club and that it's a very clear statement because any norm that can be interpreted in a different and ambiguous way won't contribute to anyone. It will only create additional problems one day when this working relationship will be resolved.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33308	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Zoran Piculjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33309	Your Honor, Mr. Representative. In my address, I said that the government will really pay attention to all amendments that have come, including amendments submitted by the HDZ representative club, of which there are 5 and which should really be read. At this point, I would not explain myself about them, and you are explaining and saying that they are on the trail of a solution to clarify and practically and to further clarify the Institute, and that we will rightly read about it and certainly see in what sense, if the text can be fixed, and through these amendments without rejecting them for reasons they did not come with, which simply because they came from the club of HDZ representatives or any other club with equal attention, indeed. And as for the same urgent procedure, I will inform the Government and the debate in that part will make the same decision, so far we remain in an emergency procedure and it seems to us that we will discuss the possibility that this law will go into two readings, or we will equate your arguments that this law is going in two readings. For now, what the government is proposing is an emergency procedure that we also consider to have grounds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33310	Josip Djakic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33311	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. Well, I'd just like to say it one more time if it was article 107. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is the establishment and part-round of the Office of Presidents of the Republic of Croatia and that what you are saying in your reasoning and in the very proposal of the law, given the nature of the transactions carried out in the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia, it is necessary to even the way in which jobs are filled. In that office, a way of filling jobs in the cabinet of the minister, in the office of the president of the Croatian Parliament, is in the Prime Minister's office. It means the constitutional authority of the President of the Republic, which by its decision he made in Article 3 has defined the structure and jobs of civil servants and officials. And you are now going to involve him in his constitutional authority and you want to allow these legal short changes to enable him to work in the same way as state officials and employees in his office. Article 107 is replaced by the following: The Constitution of the President shall have the power to, by its decision in Article 3 which states that the decision on the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia which has not been adopted in several terms has been formulated, and therefore the recommendations of the Constitutional Court have been made on the need to be made and it has been adopted. And now all the legal stuff has been removed. There is no need to put such an intrusion into the constitutional authority of the president.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33312	The reply to the replica of Deputy Minister Zoran Piculjan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33313	I'm in my final presentation really accurately answered you. And now I'd like to give you an additional answer. The President's Office is determined by its decision and by its jobs, but not by the working status of its employees. And here the Constitution has an answer, and the Constitution says in Article 117(3). "The law and other regulations regulate the status of civil servants and the working status of tenants." The Law on civil servants in Article 2 of 2005 shows that these regulations apply and apply to the Office of the President of the Republic. Therefore, there is no contradiction in this, nor is it the proposal's intention, nor can it be interpreted in any case.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33314	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33315	Final draft law amending the Law on civil servants, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 281, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were filed by the HDZ Club. I'd like a representative of the motionary, the respected Minister of Arsen Bauk, to be made manifest. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33316	The amendment is not accepted. The proposed amendment proposes to retain the sentence in Article 74b: "The civil servant of the rights of the service is in the state body to which he has been transferred.". So the desire to move this sentence out of this article allows a civil servant to choose for himself a more favourable way of wanting to exercise his rights, so whether he wants to do so in the ministry in which he will be in the cabinet or wants to be in the ministry from which he came to the cabinet. This is about officers who are already in the service. However, in the case of some bodies, for example, the Office of the Prime Minister, where all cabinet officials are in place, this sentence would, after the term of office of the Prime Minister's Office, leave it in an air-empty space so as not to have a home ministry, and the new representative would not have to if he did not wish to deploy it, and in that case, the safety of officials is increased in a way that protects them against any political or remandistic influences. In another case, the official can first move to the ministry where he goes to the cabinet, and then from that office post so that the same could be allowed to be in the same ministry. For these reasons, this amendment cannot be accepted for reasons of a better position of officials.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33317	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the HDZ, Proposer of the Amendment, Honored Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33318	Your Honor, Mr. President. Dear Mr. Minister, what you said is we're touched by your concern for the fate of civil servants, and as far as the amendment is concerned, you said something wrong in your explanation because six months ago when you proposed the law was hard to follow, but here's the fourth amendment in a year and so far you've just had to read a little bit further. Article 80 tells you where civil servants who move exercise their rights were only in college and then we told you that, the provisions of Article 74b and Article 80, because in one case the civil servants exercised their rights in the body from which they were transferred, and in the other case to the body in which they were transferred. Now you're interpreting six months later something completely different from when you proposed such a solution and you're actually just erasing how much I understood this part of the norm in which you're saying that the civil servant of the law of the service is achieving in the state body that he was transferred to. It will therefore mean, if such a solution is to pass, that all those transferred will exercise more favourable rights or choose than in the body from which they are moved to a new workplace. We're not satisfied with the explanation and we're asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33319	Thank you very much. Please state the amendment of the HDZ Club of Representatives which the Government does not accept, Amendment 1. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're going to Amendment number two of the same club representatives. Honorable Minister, explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33320	The amendment shall not be accepted for the reasons that the officers referred to in paragraph 1 and the officers referred to in paragraph 2 are the same group of officials so that there is no need to change such an expression in Article 3.b.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33321	On behalf of the promoter of the HDZ Club, the respected representative Davorin Mlakar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33322	Well, not wanting to bother like this, they're not the same categories of officers. Therefore, in paragraph 1, civil servants who are assigned to office in the cabinet of the Minister for a specified time until the date of termination of the Minister's term of office, and they may be either found in that service by the arrival of the Minister or may be admitted as a matter of rareness in competition for you or may be transferred from other bodies of the State administration or even public services, and even from a local or more frequent case to you in your practice may be accepted without competition. So there are four different categories that you're talking about in paragraph 1. In paragraph 2, you speak only of those who have already been civil servants, so they have been transferred from one government body to another. That is why this amendment is ours and we are asking for a vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33323	Please state who is for the amendment of the HDZ Representatives Club that the government does not accept? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move to amendment number three of the same club of representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33324	The amendment is not accepted because the officials referred to in paragraph 1 of the amendment are not those admitted without the public tender procedure, they are not covered by Article 74b. It's 74c.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33325	An explanation, an indication of the esteemed representative Davorin Mlakar on behalf of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33326	So, respected ministers only with what I was talking about earlier on, where you confused the different categories of creation de facto civil servants, that is, their state service of this amendment 3. is what we have argued about by arguing about this law which is only a provision of what everyone has advocated is a solution, and that is that those who enter the state administration under these amendments to the law without any competition in the political resemblance leave the state administration when they cease and the mandate of those who were co-workers during their term of office. Since we all claimed that the intention in the law was precisely that, then, this is an clarification of our amendment, that is, the text of the law goes in that direction to all those officers who, without criteria and without competitions, have come to an end the state service by force of the law when the mandate of the minister or the second leader who received them to work without competition, is therefore required to vote on this amendment. And even from your reasons, we understand that you're in favour of the same interpretation. Therefore, I would believe that all colleagues are actually for the amendment as I have now tried to explain it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33327	Are you asking for a vote?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33328	We're looking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33329	Please state the amendment number three of the HDZ Representatives Clubs which the government does not accept. Who's in? I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We're moving on to amendment number four of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33330	The amendment is not accepted. Article 74b. which I repeat refers to those admitted to the state service by competition, not 74c. it is possible to also apply to the cabinets of the Minister and the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament, the Office of the President of the Croatian Parliament and the Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament in the appropriate establishment unit of the Office of the President of the Republic. It is true that the structure and the work of the Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia is governed by the President of the Republic, and it will in that decision, when determining the structure, determine and what is the establishment unit. It's probably something called the President of the Republic's Office or whatever he calls it, so the Parliament can't limit it. And thus it will be possible, therefore, to put together in these formation units by the arrival of the new Head of the Office of the President of the Republic with it in the way it is done and can work in the ministry, the Office of the Prime Minister. And secondly, one practice that has been put aside in some places is that people are assigned as state officials, which the President of the Republic has the right under the law. And this is, therefore, the Office of the President's initiative. We think this is a more transparent and better solution, and that's why we suggested it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33331	And an indication of the representative of the HRZ Representatives Club. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33332	So, given that our arguments are weak or not accepted, we will only commend this position of the government that, apart from imposing its solutions and importance on the Croatian Parliament, it is now also doing so in relation to the Office of the President of the Republic, so here we are looking for a vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33333	Please state the amendment number four. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. We move on to amendment number five of the same club representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33334	The amendment is not accepted for two reasons. I first explained when not accepting amendment number four, and as for article 74c. which speaks precisely about this group as it states in paragraph 1. a person who can be admitted to the state service without conducting a tender, so their state service ceases with the decision of the minister, which means that they, the minister, can at any time make a decision to stop them from the state service. So that's a solution that's still, let's say it's so much more unfavourable for these revolving Doors let's call it that kind of official. However, we think that this is precisely the result of what they came into the ministry without a competition, and then I can leave the ministry in a simpler way. As for the application of the institute so far, since we have had several changes in the composition of the government during this year, so the people who came with the previous minister after the arrival of the new minister have left or the new minister has decided to stay in the cabinet and are now part of the new minister's team, and so it will be with all changes of ministers whether the same political option or a different political option. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33335	Thank you very much. And an indication of the representative of the HRZ Representatives Club. Honorable representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33336	Well, here's the previous law we discussed was more humane than this, but since you haven't accepted any of our arguments, we're going to ask only with an earlier vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33337	Are you asking for a vote? Please state the amendment number five. A HDZ representative club the government doesn't accept. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. The amendment of the respected representative, Ruža Tomasic, was not submitted in accordance with Article 163 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will not be decided on. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you. I find that most votes, 81 votes for and 21 votes against the Law amending the Law on civil servants in the text, as proposed by the Proposer without the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33338	And we move on to: - The proposal for a decision to appoint a president, deputy president and members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on Electronic Communications provides for the Croatian Parliament to appoint a President, Vice-President and Council on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. If the applicant wishes, he will explain the proposal in an introductory manner. Deputy Minister of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure Mr Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33339	Thank you very much. Madam Vice President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Based on Article 8. The Law on Electronic Communications has been implemented by the public call procedure and the selection of the list of candidates for the HACOM Council. A total of 28 candidates, of which 16 completed with the Faculty of Electrical Engineering, 7 with the Faculty of Transport Sciences, 4 with the Faculty of Economics and 1 with the Faculty of Law. The ministry carried out the process of candidate verification on the basis of its legal powers and also the competent state departments for candidate verification carried out checks on all candidates and all candidates passed the necessary checks. The ministry has proposed to the government of the Republic of Croatia that five candidates among these 28 five candidates, Drazen Lucic for president, Domagoj Jurjevic for deputy, then Zdravko Jukic, Marijan Bolaric and Nikola Popovic for members of the HACOM Council. So this proposal passed the prescribed legislative procedure of the government's Working Group of Coordination and the government adopted on 14 February this year a proposal proposing to the Croatian Parliament to appoint these persons to the HACOM Council. The proposed candidates are persons who are professional, independent, non-partisan, with years of work in industry and the system and as such have the necessary integrity. They passed the emphasis on all the necessary tests and had exceptional results. The proposed president of the HACOM Council for his term as director has completed the process of assigning a digital dividend as the end of a successful multi-annual transition to a digital broadcast of a television signal that has made the state budget richer by more than 300 million kuna and has laid the basis for the rapid development of wireless wide-ranging Internet access in the Republic of Croatia, which is one of the government's priority policies. HAKOM needs to be given a council as soon as possible, as it is necessary to start working in order to start with the necessary investments, market regulation and problem-solving both on the electronic communications market and on the postal services market. The government therefore proposes to the Parliament to appoint these five candidates to the HACOM Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33340	Thank you. Replica, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33341	Thank you very much, ma'am. Mr. Deputy Minister, you forgot just one more detail to point out that there has been a debate on the parent board today that has been repeated on these candidates and that it has been asked of you whether you are behind the fact that in case there has been a failure in the findings of the security services and that the allegations that are in the media are true, does this mean that the prime minister, because he has signed this proposal, will suffer political responsibility. Does this mean that he will resign for the reason that he is pushing the candidate who is ultimately on whom your MPs in the Assembly, or on the committee, did not want to plead because of this because the committee's session would be repeated? None of yours had six MPs for the first time, all six attacked the government's proposal. All six MPs who attended the first committee session attacked the government's proposal. It was against it, which is why the re-session was held. And not even today, at the end of the day, the board did not conclude that it was behind the government's proposal but that MPs would take responsibility for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33342	Replication response, Zdenko Antesic Deputy Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33343	Your Honor, Mr. Representative, at today's meeting of the parent committee, the committee supported this proposal and, considering, let me finish. So this proposal was supported and, considering, a naturally interesting discussion developed. And if something was missing in the verification process, so the verifications of these candidates or of these candidates came up and later came up on which the state authorities that were in charge couldn't do, then the one responsible for it would naturally carry their conjectures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33344	I don't know if the board report on the bench hasn't arrived yet, but I'll just read the conclusion. After the debate was held, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure of the Croatian Parliament unanimously decided to propose to the Croatian Parliament to make a decision on the appointment of the president, vice president and members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. You'll be divided into benches and you'll have a report from the board. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of Croatian Labourers' Club Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33345	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State. Here we have on, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, we have in front of us a really weird paper that always says the conclusion. This time it does not write the conclusion made by the board, but only writes that it unanimously decides to propose to the Croatian Parliament and then writes it on the appointment of presidents, deputies, etc. I trust my colleague Novak who says the board has decided otherwise. The Committee concluded that he would not decide on it, the decision, meant he had no view of it. It's clearly read here that he has an attitude, so they haven't reached a conclusion. I'm not surprised at the forgeries. If it's a fake, I apologize if it isn't. And this point, so this point as well as many other points regarding humanization is abundant in dirty laundry. At the session of the Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Committee, the majority of the representatives did not have a nice line on these 5 candidates. At today's board meeting, the story is also repeated. This dirty laundry looks very difficult and washed. Most people, however, do not try. There's this famous sentence that says we've got power and we're gonna put the burden on our backs and the burden of dirty laundry. The new composition of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency which is proposed and we heard from the representatives of the Government who are these people is actually an old story that repeats itself. There are two councils, the Council for Electronic Media and the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency, which deserve both to be released, to have a debate, to create new criteria and to name those who have not participated in the Council so far because everything that has been done in these two councils has been wrapped at least in very suspicious matters. In the battle fought in the council, they were buried in trenches ex and ex. About Mr. Lucic becoming President of the Council and taking severance and now enjoying the months, he has a year's right to pay means cancelling. All that was done at the agency, renting an annual space that costs $12.5 million, which means 24 euros per metre square month, all those stories about furniture expensive, all that work done, all those jobs that have been done I say under very suspicious circumstances what has been said and on the board itself should come to the stage of the DORH. This story should not continue, for tomorrow the people who will raise their hands will come and raise their hands for what is certainly not safe. That's why they need, as one of your former fellow state institutions says, to do their job, and then we need to vote here to find out what's going on in the media that's true and what's not. At least the truth is that the government's representative said they were independent people, I'm not going into professionalism. Yeah, they're independent people because the man who set them up is now independent, no longer a member of the HDZ and is on the defendant's bench. They're so independent. There are no innocents in this whole story. There are hundreds of young people in Croatia trained outside, there are hundreds of people who know how to do the job. There are hundreds of people who are more professional, morale, fairer and who can do unsullied work for the Republic of Croatia. These are pretentious functions so we can vote in the House without knowing who these people are and whether they're all true. If it's not true, let the DORH investigate and let the DORH report whether it's true or not. We'll vote them first, and then the DORH will put all those applications in a drawer. Why does the circle of the human circle always have to revolve around the same people? A new policy was promised, new honesty was promised, new morality, new justice. Nothing out of morality, not out of righteousness, not out of honesty. What do we got? The same people who are spinning in that system, all the luck they're not from that former system because they're probably too young and they couldn't participate, but they'd be safe. Key criminal charges against the candidates and they tell you people got their hand too far into the jam, so let's look into it. What are we in such a hurry for? Which is why most think ill of it on the parent board and now the government's representative comes and says it's still our proposal. Why is the opinion of the parent committee not respected? What makes us put ourselves back in the position that we have to get out of the hall, that we won't be involved because it's a circus? The body of the Croatian Parliament is not respected. And we said that we were turning to parliamentaryism, that we would strengthen Parliament. However, what is said in Parliament does not matter. So I say on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, I ask that this item of the agenda be removed, that it be postponed for at least 15 days or a month, that institutions who need to do their job be called and that the competition be repeated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33346	Thank you. It is up to HDSSB and counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33347	Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs, and I would also agree with what he has concluded, and we represent this opinion that there is room, there is plenty of time to discuss the president of the HACOM Council a little more and to consider actually the criteria and way of selecting that president. This person who is proposing the fact is of course that certain things that have been presented are also part of the interest of certain people who bring them out, unfortunately that is always the case. But what is not good is that we, as the most legislative body in the country, actually remain actually faced with some of these things, and that these things are in fact a little vague and on the other hand a question that is always being asked by Mr Vuksic, don't we really have some circle of people in this country, both smart and educated and some living and working references that we can then actually, which can really compete in some jobs because we really have to rotate sometimes cyclically at intervals of 10 years of power, and sometimes at shorter intervals one or very similar names. So, the former director of HACOM Mr. Drazen Lučić, who was removed at the end of last year because we have a new director of HAKOM Vesna Gaspar, he now sits at home and receives a six-month salary fee and is waiting for us to declare him president of the HACOM Council here. And then a man can continue to play a new role as president of the HACOM Council. If we don't do this for the first six months, he'll be receiving 50% of his salary for another six months, and only then is what he had in his contract expired. There are several things that have recently been spinning in the public space of course carried out by one person or by a particular interested group that have not been given the clearest answers to by the competent authorities or to which the answers of the competent authorities remain relatively doubtful. So one thing, when it comes to this Mr. Drazen Lucic, may be worth mentioning those 2010 dragon sentences he gave HT for breaking the rules. When he hit HT with a fine of 70,000 kuna, HT probably barely collected 70,000 kuna to pay the cost of that dragon penalty. That's what he's really remembered for, as one strict fair regulator. When it comes to these things that are mentioned, and also the predecessor mentioned them, one of the things mentioned, is the alleged annex of a contract that Mr. Lučić, or the President of the Council of the Croatian Postage and Electronic Communications Agency, has been made allegedly annexes of contracts like those gold parachutes each for a million and a half kuna. They have denied it, these contracts except in some copies that are spinning in the media space can no longer be found, are not arranged anywhere, although they have manual numbers, but there is also a record from the session of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency signed by all including Mr Miljenko Krissek, it is the 28th session of November 2012 and therefore a quote of the minutes from that session, which is signed as follows: "Mr Gačina asks the question: Are all the origins destroyed?"and refers to these annexes of the contract. And the president, Mr. Krissek, answers: The president is yes and declares that he does not know how they were revealed at all since they were in his safe. The president does not know how the disputed photograph of the contract annex was created, and he declares that the written proposals, the annexes of the contract for members of the council, after some time, are personally destroyed.". So, this is about what is said to have not existed, and these are the annexes of the labor contracts that were illegal because they applied, I say to the gold parachutes in the event of early cancellation for both Mr. Lucic and Mr. Krissek, that each of them in the event of early cancellation receive a one-time payment of one million-and-a-half kuna. If the annexes existed, there was no one else who knew for sure anymore, but the minutes from this session of the agency's council exist, as we in the originals, signed by all so can be obtained by the competent ministry and the interested committee. It's about that one case. The second is the case mentioned, it is a case of alleged, one public procurement by the agency, and it was then fragmented, and then after it was annulled, it was actually bought the same old one only by luxuriating the Public Procurement Act. The opinion of the competent ministry was requested and the reply was received on 12 October 2012 from the Ministry of Economy, signed by Assistant Minister Tea Kolar, who, in the end, states this: "Therefore, we believe that the conduct described in your inquiry indicates that you shared the value of the procurement case in a way that avoids the application of the law which has the characteristics of the infringement in accordance with Article 182(3) and paragraph 2 of the same law. So this refers to the period during which the director of the agency was Mr. Lučić, and the director, the president of the agency's council was Mr. and current council president Miljenko Krvisek. And the third case that is mentioned, which is like this, which I don't know if it has the characteristics of a criminal offence, but it shows in a way that public property is actually being held in the pub, because income, income from the agency itself, the agency is mostly making revenue from radio frequency compensation. It's a revenue that, in fact, is simply the income of everything that we use as users and therefore has a well-defined good income. These are, that is, buying a business space, i.e. renting a business space or renting a business space for the Agency's work. Here are the lease contracts, there are 4 contracts relating to the rent of an office space of 4 thousand 400 square meters, the other relates to the rent of an office space of 734 square meters. Each of them, the value, means the amount of the rent of the business space is 14.7 euros per metre square plus VAT, and the third and fourth contracts also relate to the cost of total consumption. So that's not where you think about communals, it's actually the common cost of users who are often directly hired, and here they're further added to contract annexes, which are 4.5 euros per meter square and all of this goes VAT. The contract also refers to a 132m-square storage space that rents 8 euros per square month. The area for the antenna system, a rent of 4000 400 euros per month, and 40 parking spaces in the building will be each 100 euros per month. The overall cumulative effect of such a contract is that the amount of monthly rent paid by the agency is around 134 thousand euros per month, approximately and translated into kuna equivalent at the average rate of the euro on the day of payment. Anyone can easily calculate that these amounts, which are paid and paid for during a 10-year period, would correspond practically to purchases, prices for buying that same space. I'll remind you all this is happening in the eighth month of last year, so five months ago, not so long ago, there's a little more, eight months last year. In which the tenant signed extremely unfavourable lease terms, he accepted, for example, the cancellation period of one year. So in one contract he signed a contract for a certain time of ten years, and if he wants to cancel before he has to do so within a year. In the second contract every three years, it's the same with a year's notice. There are still a whole series of tenants of very, very unfavourable, very unfavourable items and in some way this lease is honestly speaking, this kind of contract, this kind of harm to the national, for the Croatian, for our national property because this agency is completely state-owned, one through one. This reminds me very much of mountaineering. I'm surprised at those who signed these contracts, and I'm even more surprised by those who have directly evolved these contracts today are proposing Hakom's principal positions. So there is, of course, the position so-called. The director and the one who runs the board. However, it is quite clear that one who is straight cannot be blind even though he has not signed no responsibility or if he sees the harmfulness of the one representing the council sign, for example. So he must have insight into it. Where was that director when the council president signed those contracts, and the council president signed them. So I don't think I think I'm taking a position right now and I'm sure of anything to claim but I don't think it's a little bit, I don't know if it's really this much of a rush and this kind of urgency that this really has to be done and that really here as Mr. Vuksic said there really isn't anyone else in this country right now who the Republic of Croatia can find for this job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33348	Thank you, replica of Young Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33349	Thank you very much. I must say that I have changed my opinion, but I am almost certain that it is not only about the incompetence and non-compliance of this government but also that there are some other elements, especially by hearing these allegations and evidence, arguments that you have presented. I don't think it leaves too much room for doubt as to what initiatives were intended by the promoter. You mentioned at one point we make these decisions and it's not good to make them. Unfortunately, we won't be able to influence either of us or you, and we know that we'll be guessing for you that you'll be against it as well as a club. We'll certainly be against it, I believe the rest of the opposition will be against it. And I ask the question of how the ruling coalition's representatives will especially those who were on board. How they will have their cheeks raised by what the party tells them they must do. It's really after this whole thing it's gonna be the highlight of democracy, that guy first to be, raises his thumb and they have to raise their hands. It's definitely the death of democracy but you've offered me one more question. Since today the deputy minister said on two occasions both on the board and here that the security services have carried out all the checks, then the question arises and how these security services and their quality work and there is their responsibility. The deputy said today on the board you don't trust the press. Unfortunately, journalists have discovered a lot of affairs, too, so I don't see why we shouldn't trust them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33350	Thank you. Replication response, Drazen Djurovic, please welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33351	So look, I have no intention at all of politicizing, security services have worked during the process of conversion and privatisation. Security services were working during Sanader, security services are still working today. What the security services have established is their right. It is our right as a representative in the Croatian Parliament to express what I also have on the other hand the fact that corruption does not have any particular color, where people can be interested in joining each other regardless of what they are like to be a worldview or what political beliefs they are. They team up because they have their own clearer interests and therefore there is a sign of corruption and corruption, then that should be made clear. If it's removed, remove it, and everything's fine. But we don't need in advance sometimes we all vote or from the position of our clubs, I believe that part of our colleagues and those present here now and others haven't actually heard about this. There's too much going on for everyone to hear about. That's what these discussions are for, so we can all get to know each other a little bit so that we can try to assess a situation a little bit more rationally and then make a decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33352	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33353	Dear colleague. Here's a sentence, you shouldn't trust the press, you were just saying, you've pictured it, you haven't really figured it out, you've read it from the fact contract. We've all got contracts, everybody, I've got these contracts too, and I know some of our SDP colleagues also have contracts, they've got these contracts, and there's a place for doubt in those contracts. We are not accusing here, but there is a place for doubt and for which it should bring doubt. Which is why with such certainty, it's all clean and no one checked. If it costs something 24, and when I've added this up, maybe I've miscounted more euros per square metre in the city centre in new spaces, you can get 14 euros a square meter. You get, look at the little price list that they are. Besides, why for ten years signed contracts? What makes you pay so much that you can buy that space below that price? There are doubts, in Croatia no one has ever heard of the percentages, no one has heard of corruption as if it had disappeared the day the Kukuriku coalition won the elections of corruption no more, it evaporated, it is gone. She has her every step she's got and there will be anyone who's in power but that corruption is denied. Everything indicates that it's the same society, and you've proven that it's the same society connected to telecommunications companies. Well, imagine that society has given its business partners 70,000 kuna. Mudrinic's knees almost took him to that place in Germany. He's gonna laugh now and grab his belly by laughing at what he's doing, and that's what the Kukurik coalition tolerates and says no vote has to be made.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33354	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33355	We have already seen this trend more than once in Croatia, this agentisation, we are too many of these I don't know what to call this notion of the awakening of these various agencies of all forms. We must have a part of this because they are in line with the EU acquis is part of our wetlands, it is part of a variety of stakeholders. I think that one serious resource of saving public funds must be in a serious, serious review of all these powerful agencies and everything that happens in them, what they do, who works in them, what contracts they have, how they make contracts, what business spaces they rent. There was indeed a minister of the administration, but after that, there was no sign or voice of it. I think it's one space and not to leave it to the competent ministries, not to one separate body, whether only to the Ministry of Administration that someone is seriously systematically and thoroughly dealing with all these agencies and all of what happens to these agencies and around those agencies in the Republic of Croatia. We're responsible. So we are neither guilty nor real, nor is anyone here guilty or right regardless of how he voted for or against, but we are responsible and the citizens have therefore chosen us to show both responsibility to the interests of this country and to the interests of these citizens. So here's just from this point and our obligation and it's our duty to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33356	We're moving on to an individual debate. It's Nikola Vuljanic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33357	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I really don't want to politicize and there's no need to politicize but I'm surprised, it's embarrassing actually why the government puts such self-destructive behavior in a strange situation both of us and those of us who need to make a decision in this House. Somewhere at the beginning of the term, Prime Minister Milanovic said here from this pay phone, that he would place people he believes in in the right places. I'm in that after that developed quite a long discussion, it seems to me about that first Law on civil servants and I insisted in the discussion to answer my question, what would happen if these people out of the trust we're putting in a mess? Okay. They will be changed, but you have appointed them responsible. I insisted so long until my colleague Stazic answered me, then the minister will fly. Great. If that's the case after that, I voted for the law and accepted the situation. So you take responsibility, the minister will fly. Who will fly after this if these charges are proved justified? Well, I guess who signed the appointment proposal. There shouldn't be any rush. When there's a doubt there's no emergency, it's an unnecessary emergency. We've got a nice time 14 days' break now. I remember the situation in which we attacked Foreign Minister Zuzula for certain crimes in this House, the State's Attorney's Office brought in clear documents within six days that Mr. Zuzul is not to blame for having no basis for these charges. And what now but to accept the state's attorney's opinion finally and this government has once again chosen him, man knows what he's doing, he's real. We voted against him for that sort of thing, but that's our problem. Can't you do the same in 15 days? There are serious charges, and they were brought here from this pay phone. This is all that Mr. Djurovic was saying, in fact, on the edge of a crime or at least unconscious business. Shouldn't the State's Attorney's office check what's not standing here in the next 15 days, brief the government and let the government think one more time about not getting into a situation to fly on such a banal case, and it should fly. We said they'd fly if those who set themselves up for trust got messed up. The Croatian Parliament should also not put itself in a position to vote on something that is unquestionable in public. People have to trust us, that's what we said here and in Europe and everywhere. How will they trust us if we behave like this? Let's not step on our word, let's not step on our credibility. Let's put this whole thing off. If you insist that a man vote tomorrow, I don't claim to be guilty, I don't claim he's innocent, I'm not a cop, I'm not a state lawyer, but a man whose name is a suspect, let's go. If you insist on doing it, it'll probably work out. You've got enough votes. But then it would be polite to say if those doubts were to be confirmed who would fly it. Someone should fly away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33358	Thank you very much. Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33359	Dear fellow Vuljanic, I disagree that this is not a banal case for which someone should fly. This is a very important agency. This is an important agency, a very important matter is being decided in this agency, and big money is spinning in that agency. You've only seen how much money I can spend on renting space. Here's a colleague telling me Novak 13 billion kuna is traffic in that agency. So, and it's much smaller but their influence is much greater than that 13 billion kuna. You said that Mr. Milanovic here told us that he would set up his people to whom he trusted and that he would be responsible for these people. They're going to set people up for trust. However, Minister Hajdash-Doncic has just said he does not trust these people and then disappeared from the political scene when it comes to the problem. I trust Mr. Hajdash-Doncic was dissatisfied. I don't know how he got invisible and satisfied now. And if we had the right to doubt what my colleague Djurovic read, which is what I sign for you, you sign for me. Why didn't it burn? Well, I think it's all a lot of doubt, one big questionnaire. And now you want the council's representatives to raise their hands for or against in such an environment. No, we're not cops, but there's too much to forgive the smell that we should decide on it and once Parliament should say this time he said on the board we won't. They retired a little, so they wrote a letter that could, not a conclusion, but a report from the board. I also appeal once again to postpone this by 15 days or a month, to examine the situation. And secondly, I'm even asking to repeat the competition. There are people in Croatia young people who know even more about the job and who are not wrapped up in their careers in secret.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33360	Replication response, Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33361	Thank you. Comrade Vuksic, the case is banal in my opinion as clear as I think it is. It's clear, the government is being brought in for something that shouldn't put it in an impossible situation. The case is clear by all the arguments that have been made here, which have been made public, he is clearly suspicious. And the government shouldn't have to take such banal moves if, in a clearly suspicious situation, it went aside to actually identify itself as a suspicious person. If the minister said he didn't trust that person, I don't know. But if the minister said so and remained a minister in that government who suggested something like this, then I don't trust that minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33362	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the decision tomorrow. And I announce that tomorrow at 10.00 a.m. we will have a vote on all the points that have been discussed so far and since last week what we haven't voted on. So at 10.00 we'll have a vote and that's the only point, the only item on the agenda. Goodbye!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-21-0.u33363	Proposal for a decision to appoint the president and vice president and members of the Council of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency. The debate is concluded I am voting on the proposal for a decision on appointment. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I note that most votes were cast, with most votes, 82 votes in favour, 32 votes against and 1 abstention, a decision was taken to appoint the president and vice president and members of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency council in the text as proposed by the motionaries. Now two notices first. The first notice of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system is scheduled for today's session of February 22, 2013 at 11 o'clock, the hall of Stjepan Radić. I'm asking the board members to respond. Secondly, in the Croatian Parliament on 25 and 26 February, this month a seminar will be held on the subject of decision-making procedures in the European Union organised by the European Parliament and the Office for International and European Affairs intended for representatives in the Croatian Parliament and professional service of the Croatian Parliament. The lecturers at the seminar will be Vice-Presidents of the European Parliament Giovanni Pittel Italy, Laszlo Surjan Hungary, Rain Wilent Germany, and representatives of the European Parliament's service. The topics of the seminar are related to the legal framework in the EU, action under the Lisbon Treaty. I ask my fellow Members and colleagues to show interest in the activities of the representatives and the Croatian Parliament within the framework of EU membership. You'll get a notice, all of you. At the end of the day, I can only say that I am informing you that today we will stop sitting, so we will take a break in this session and in two weeks we will see each other at the Croatian Parliament in the follow-up session, that is March 13th, March 13th Wednesday at 9.30. I want you not to spend all your energy on local topics, but also to study topics related to the function of representatives in the Croatian Parliament because the government has already done 10 or 12 laws relating to harmonisation with the EU, are already on the government's pages and will be available soon to your usual address for the reception of material. Thank you very much. I'll see you on March 13 at 9.30.
