ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54479	Dear colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, continue our work at the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you all. We will discuss: - Final proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on cooperation in the field of defence, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 489; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings and the amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. The Honorable Deputy Defence Minister Vishny Tafra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54480	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, distinguished representatives and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The Republic of Croatia will sign this Act confirming the Agreement signed by the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia and the Minister of Defence of the Republic of Croatia in Paris on 14 July this year to meet the conditions for its application and create a framework for further expansion and increasing the scope and forms of defence cooperation between the French Republic and the Republic of Croatia. The importance of this Agreement is also reflected in the fact that this Agreement is the first agreement of this nature signed after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which directly strengthens Croatia's position with one of the important members of the European Union within the framework of the common, security and defence policy of the European Union, which it belongs to on 1 July of this year. The defence cooperation of the Member States in this example of the Republic of Croatia and the French Republic as members of the NATO Alliance and today the European Union is getting its full expression precisely because of the time frame in which it is taking place. And that is the time when the defence budget and the Member States unfortunately stagnate. Therefore, the awareness and need for joint integration with the aim of strengthening the building of defence capabilities in Europe has become a necessity. The two ministries' co-operation so far has been achieved primarily through bilateral meetings, military delegations visits and exchanges of experiences largely from peacekeeping operations. This Agreement extends defence cooperation through staff management, support organisation, logistics, liaison systems, arms procurement and military equipment, i.e. through equipment in the Land Army, the Air Force and the Navy. It is then still a matter of training and training, joint implementation of mine-explosives, nuclear biological and chemical defences and other areas agreed between the parties. The legal position of military and civil personnel, compensation and health support in the framework of the implementation of this Agreement while staying in the territory of the other Party shall be governed by the provisions of NATO SOFA or the Agreement between the States of the Parties to the North Atlantic Treaty on the Legal Position of their Forces. The cooperation agreed by this Agreement will take place within the limits and form of budgetary opportunities for both countries. The agreement is concluded indefinitely. In order to implement this Act, the Agreement will be approved by the competent Ministry of Defence and no additional financial resources need be provided for its implementation but all activities will take place within the framework of the approved budget of both States. In view of the nature of the process of confirming international contracts, which both the state and formally express its willingness to be bound by already concluded international contracts and the fact that at this stage of the procedure it is not possible to amend and supplement it, we propose that the Parliament adopt this Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54481	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. Dear Representative Tomislav Ivic will speak on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54482	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, dear Deputy Minister. In the beginning, I will say that the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on Defence Cooperation with the Final Proposal for the Law. As we have heard from the opening argument, the adoption of this Act will create a legal framework for further expanding the defence cooperation of the Republic of Croatia and the French Republic. This cooperation can indeed be diverse. A special importance of this cooperation is seen in the ability of organisation, equipment of the armed forces, designing the production and supply of weapons and military equipment, cooperation in the field of logistics, engineering, equipment of systems of connections, anti-aircraft, nuclear, chemical, biological defences, removal of mine explosives etc.. Otherwise, it should also be said that relations between the Republic of Croatia and the French Republic are really good. France is one of the leading countries of the European Union. One of NATO's key countries. And there is no doubt that the adoption of this law is a good opportunity for the Republic of Croatia to extend these relations further in the field of defence and security. With how much respect France treats Croatia and our Armed Forces, the best confirmation is the fact that the French largest national holiday was invited to join the Croatian Army. This law fits very well in NATO's smart defence concept that should allow for the rationalisation of defence systems of member states under the conditions of the economic crisis when defence separations are reduced not only in Croatia but also in the leading NATO alliance countries and the only solution is cooperation and association between friendly countries and allies. Also at the recent NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Dubrovnik, a meeting with the president of the Croatian Parliament with the French Senate's delegation expressed mutual interest in expanding and improving security and defence policy. From everything mentioned as I said in the introduction, the HDZ Club will support the adoption of this law because it is undoubtedly of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54483	Thank you. The time foreseen for discussion of the HDSSB club will be shared by colleagues Drazen Djurovic and Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54484	Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. In this case, the Treaty of Military Cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the French Republic and this Agreement, which today is at our disposal, or at the confirmation, signed by the Ministers of Defence of France and Croatia in July of this year, welcomes the HDSB's Club of Representatives. We think that this is a high-quality, good bilateral contract between the two countries that in one equal way regulates a number of technical issues that will improve military cooperation and co-operation in the area of defence, security and co-operation and make it easier to actually co-operate between the Armed Forces of both countries. So, the contract is very correct in one measure with respect to reciprocity actually brings good solutions that will facilitate and what is actually likely to be the biggest real focus in the execution of this contract, and this is actually mutual exchange in training, education and other types of cooperation between members of the armed forces, therefore the HDSB's Club of Representatives will certainly agree with this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54485	I now give the word to my esteemed colleague, Boris Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54486	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and fellow MPs. It is nice to see our solemn unit on the day of Bastille's fall in Paris in the procession, as well as the local and French media reported this performance of our unit, the solemn unit as one of the most beautiful and best on the pass in Paris. But it is not the only way that and how military cooperation or cooperation between the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of France should be arranged, but here it is counted in this legislative proposal signed by the defence ministers of Croatia and France, all fields where military cooperation will be. From the production and supply of arms, military equipment, organisation, command, organisation and roles in support of logistics, healthcare, etc. I must say that the French Armed Forces have one system that bounces something, something different than in other Western European countries, and it is good that both our officers and our soldiers and our Croatians, so the total Armed Forces meet this system as a whole. What besides therefore exclusively military cooperation, here writes basic questions which are proposed to be regulated by law are and I hope that it will not end up on this as such. sports events, art events organisations and other forms of cooperation, I hope that it will not end in it but rather in much more serious matters and if the component of military activities has both this and the sport, so let me not say both the artistic part and the character. Our army also participates in the pilgrimage to Lourdes as we all know it... of these armed forces. We know that Lourdes is in France, so this year's passing is well followed, and we also know about the French Republic's actions during the Homeland War, we know about the policy of the late President Mitterand who was not very fond and fond of Croatia as to what we must say and point out. Okay, the man had some kind of counsellors who weren't very fond of Croatia, especially when they were foreigners and were on the other side not to say barricades, and they were advisers to President Mitterand. I know that personally because I was also a delegate to the Croatian Parliament in France. So that policy, a consistent policy of the Croatian government in the vicinity of NATO and the European Union, has therefore slowly changed both the consciousness and the French citizens, as well as the official French authorities towards the Republic of Croatia. Today, Croatia and France are one friendly country, countries that understand each other, and today it is quite different to understand the French according to the Homeland War than it was before. So, just in time, unfortunately, the Homeland War. That's why we have what we have from the French and learn, they have what we have from us, so this one not to say, so let's call it a Colloquitically put Francophone agreement, it's not bad to sign between Croatia and France, as a colleague of Đurovic, the HDSSB Club, said, has no objection. On the contrary, we'll be in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54487	Thank you. The Deputy Minister doesn't need to address it finally, so I'm finalizing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54488	Now we're going to go to the usual vote on the working points of the agenda. I'd like a quorum to be determined. Thank you very much. We have enough representatives present in the assembly, we can decide all things. Let's first come to the Final Proposal of the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on cooperation in the field of defence, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 489. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of France on cooperation in the field of defence is in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54489	We move to the next item of the agenda, which is - Final proposal of the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Article 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and the amendment and addition of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court concerning the crime of aggression, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 491. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. I ask if the proposal's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54490	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. The Rome Statute is a fundamental legal act established by the International Criminal Court based in The Hague. The UN diplomatic conference was held in July 1998 and the adoption of the Rome Statute was therefore established by the International Criminal Court. This is the result of long aspirations, almost a century of the international community's aspirations to react, i.e. to introduce a legal system in relation to the most severe forms of aggression and these activities have come from the League of Nations, i.e. since the severe consequences of World War I. The process of forming the International Criminal Court was such that we also participated in it, i.e. today's President Ivo Josipovic's activities, who, as top expert in international and criminal law, participated in these activities. We, or the Republic of Croatia, were also actively involved in these activities because of its negative experiences during the Homeland War, and was also the subject of the action of the International Court of Justice for Yugoslavia, which was founded before the International Criminal Court of the Hague. So we have two of those temporary courts. One was for Yugoslavia, the other for Rwanda, and after 1998, the International Criminal Court, based in The Hague, acts in order to prosecute, punish and possibly prevent the most serious crimes, so genocide crimes, crimes against humanity, crimes of aggression and war crimes. What matters here and what the proposal is, therefore, is that in accordance with Article 141. The constitution in our international legal system introduces newspapers, i.e. amendments related to the Roman Statute. The amendment concerns certain offences related to the use of certain types of weapons and, more importantly, concerns the definition of aggression. The Conference for the Amendments and Supplements of the Rome Statute 2010 was held, where we also actively participated in Resolution No 5. The Rome Statute in the sense that the use of certain toxic weapons, therefore poisons themselves, toxic gases, gasses of silencers or the use of spraying bullets to say, is considered a violation of international law not only if it has been done in international conflicts such as this amendment to the Rome Statute, but also considered a violation of international law and those conflicts that do not have the meaning of international conflicts. Resolution number six accepted the definition of crime aggression. We consider this a very important change because the International Community has unanimously accepted the definition of aggression in accordance with the UN General Assembly Resolution of '74. A year. The conditions governing the jurisdiction to act in connection with the crime of aggression have also been accepted. The Republic of Croatia, apart from its active participation in those conferences and the preparation of the Statute itself and its subsequent amendments, has also installed certain elements on jurisdiction in the context of its internal legal order, as regards the description of these offences. We have the Law on the application of the Statute of the International Criminal Court and the persecution of criminal offences against international war and humanitarian law, and we have changed that law. Here we have defined the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the International Criminal Court and the enforcement of the decisions of that court, as well as the jurisdiction of Croatian courts and other law enforcement authorities and the conduct of criminal proceedings for the trial of war crimes offenders. So this is how we establish and enforce jurisdiction for war crimes in the County Courts in Osijek, Rijeka, Split and Zagreb. It should also be pointed out that in the Penal Code in Article 89, we have introduced the definition of aggression precisely on the trail and in accordance with the definition as adopted by resolution number 6 of the amendments to the Rome Statute. The Republic of Croatia, of course, shows by this active participation its intention to reach that level of international universal application of these provisions precisely in order to prevent the most serious crimes at international level and to create appropriate international application of these provisions by full implementation of these offences in national legislation. We propose that the Law on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to the Rome Statute be implemented by emergency procedure precisely because the aim is to protect individuals from the most serious crimes. There is, of course, the interest of the Republic of Croatia to be actively involved here and to express its consent to be bound by these provisions and, of course, to show through it its commitment to the integrity of the International Criminal Court and full respect for the principle of the Rome Statute. It is also not possible to amend or supplement the international contract at this stage of the procedure, and therefore we propose to adopt this proposal in accordance with Article 141. The Constitution implements it into the legal system of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54491	Thank you, Deputy. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Sign up for the HDZ Club for a colleague named Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54492	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The HDZ advocates club supports the adoption of this law by an emergency procedure because we hold that what is crucial is what is required by this law, which is the adoption of a definition of crime of aggression, which is indeed a historic step that the international community has been working on for years, and now it has finally come to terms with the acceptance of the definition of crime of aggression. Why is this important for Croatia except for the international community? Although these amendments and additions aim to ensure the highest protection of individuals from the most serious crimes of one of the most serious crimes of aggression for which the court is responsible only for the crimes of aggression committed a year after 30 countries have ratified and accepted the amendments and supplements. Therefore, it cannot refer to any other periods and events and crimes of aggression committed except in the period after being ratified or accepted by 30 countries. It is important to finally say a mark which means a crime of aggression, which means planning, preparation, the launch or execution of an act of aggression which, by its character, weight and proportion, is obviously a violation of the UN Charter. And when we go back a little bit to our close history and history that there was a court that would punish the crime of aggression in the '90s. and '91. In the year, if there had been a court and a crime of aggression was involved in the Statute of the International Court, then you see what it would have been like to have a different history. Because what does a crime of aggression mean? Planning, preparation and initiation of acts of aggression made by a person who has real power to control or manage the political or military activities of the state. On October 8, 1991, the Croatian Parliament concluded that an armed aggression by Serbia and so-called Serbia was committed to the Republic of Croatia. JNA and JNA were declared an occupation army. And now you see that Serbia was declared an armed aggressor, and later the international community accepted that armed aggression was committed in Croatia, and responsible people who had real power to control or manage the political or military activities of the state of Serbia that committed aggression on Croatia were at the top of both political and military structures of Serbia. The act of aggression under the statute means the just armed forces of one country against the sovereignty of territorial integrity or political independence of another country. On October 8th, the Parliament claimed that armed aggression was carried out in Croatia both against sovereignty and against territorial integrity and against the political independence of the Republic of Croatia. Each of the following acts is considered independent of the declaration of war by an act of aggression. Therefore, Croatia should not indicate or declare war, the war, this aggression, armed aggression, began using the armed forces of one country against the sovereignty of independence and integrity of another country. Under the act of aggression, which now enters strictly into international law is considered an invasion or attack by the armed forces of one state on the territory of another country. Bombing by the armed forces of one country from the territory of another country or using any weapon of any country on the territory of another country. How close and familiar does that sound to you? The blockade of the port or coast of one country by the armed forces of another country, the blockade of Split, Dubrovnik. Reference by or on behalf of an armed gang country, a group of paramilitary forces or mercenaries carrying out armed actions against another country. With armed rebellion, we had on behalf of another country on behalf of Serbia the deployment of armed gangs, groups and paramilitary forces and mercenaries who committed crimes of war crimes, crimes against humanity and all other crimes. And it is also important for Croatia to accept these amendments to the Statute of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court in connection with the crime of aggression, which is why it is important that the acceptance of this statute be accepted and that it shows us how important it is for Croatia to continue through its claims against Serbia for genocide, as both the president of the state and the government have now announced that this suit will not be dropped and we support them to remain in that regard. Finally, the HDZ Club accepts the proposal to amend and supplement this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54493	Thank you. The government's representative doesn't want the final word, so I'm finalizing the debate on this agenda item. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54494	Final proposal of the Act on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Article 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and the amendment and addition of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court concerning the crime of aggression, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 491. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 112 votes for the adoption of the Act on Confirmation of Amendments and Supplements to Article 8. The Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court and the amendments and additions to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court concerning the crime of aggression in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54495	We will now skip item 3 of our agenda and move to point 4, that is: - Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for the Development of Civilised Society 2012 The Reporter is the Management Board of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development based on Article 16. Law on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. You've received the material into the boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. Does the motionary want to further explain? Yeah. Then I'll have Mrs. Cvjetana Plavša-Matić president of the board of directors.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54496	Your Honor, Mr. Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the House of Representatives. According to the Law on the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, there is a obligation to report to the Foundation on its work to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament as well as to the entire public in the Republic of Croatia. The annual work report for 2012 was sent to the Government and the Croatian Parliament on 2 April 2013. The report shall include a review of the work, achievements and innovation in the operation of the National Foundation, a review of the programmes carried out by the National Foundation, an annual financial report for 2012, and a list of all funded initiatives, projects, institutional support, multi-annual support, non-profit, media research projects, projects of international development cooperation, pilot of the social development centre programme and a list of approved awards in 2012 and for the development of volunteering in primary and secondary schools and for social innovation. The report compared to the previous year has enriched content with a much larger number of statistics and a very detailed financial report. Almost 50% of the reports as you can probably see are different indicators of the table with approved financial support. In 2012, the National Foundation completed its 9th year of action in support of the development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia, and a significant turnoff was made seven years ago by the introduction of two strategic programmes, namely the Regional Development Programme of Civil Society and local communities and the programme of the decentralised model of funding for civil society development in the Republic of Croatia, which networked existing capacities and directed them towards equating regional development of civil society with adequate financial support. In addition, several observed achievements have been achieved, of which it is certainly the most important to obtain EU accreditation from the Commission for the Executive Body for the Management of Funds from the European Civil Society Funds following a multi-month review by the Government's Internal Audit Office, the Agency for the Audit of the EU ARPA Implementation System until the revision carried out by the EU Commission auditors from Brussels. The achievement is certainly also an improvement of the transparent allocation to civil society organisations through the introduction of a multi-use computer support programme plus which was developed by the National Foundation 6 years ago, and in 2012 they started using it thanks to the cooperation of the Association Office of as many as 16 state administration bodies in order to better coordinate investments in projects and civil society organisations programmes and to enable public insight into the results of funded projects and programmes through the addition of a computer programme in the form of a financial support platform as a central point of connection between financial support providers, means state administration bodies and local self-government, users or civil society organisations and citizens. Aware of the need to find other or additional forms of funding civil society organisations, the National Foundation also launched a well-being platform last year that enables civil activity in the digital age at which more than 50 civil society organisations are already co-operating with citizens, including them in their activities but also obtaining their financial support. An additional decentralisation of another national trust tender for 4 partner regional foundations is also a achievement, and this is a competition called Community Social Capital, which is further invested in the needs and potential of local communities. A special step was made by another quality programme to support the development of local communities through the "Together for Better" contest, which financed joint projects of the social development community in 12 cities in the Republic of Croatia with up to 30,000 inhabitants who were jointly designed and implemented in cooperation cities with their citizens. For the first time in Croatia, social innovation awards have been awarded in the past year by the National Foundation to the organizations of the civil society for innovation and social entrepreneurship, which are key to social change in our country and which will be the backbone of future funding through the Structural Funds of the European Union, especially the European Social Fund. There is also a new form of development of cooperation in the field of knowledge centres for social development in the Republic of Croatia that have an important role now that we have become a member of the European Union, given that these 7 associations that are knowledge centres will work on research and analysis of public policies from different areas of social activities at national and EU level and will also work on the transfer of specific knowledge in the Republic of Croatia to other countries, the development of social potentials and the advocate of positive social change through their specific role... , i.e. thematic networks as they call similar organisations in the European Union. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Cooperation with the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has been achieved through the approval of institutional support to persons with disabilities and their alliances and with the Ministry of Defence in the process of education of Homeland War associations for quality preparation of applications for competitions and reporting in implementation of projects in accordance with the standards developed by the National Foundation. The National Foundation is the first public institution in Croatia to meet the standards of the international ISO 9001 certificate as of 2006 financial support and co-operation with civil society organisations. The funds that the foundation was revenueing from in '12. The year amounted to slightly more than 56 million kunas, of which nearly 46 million kunas were from the part of the gambling revenue in '12. and the rest were the revenues from gambling from the previous year and unknown funds from gambling, as established by the Ministry of Finance of the previous years, and from the management of the wealth and from the carrying out of its own activities of the National Foundation. The total funds invested in citizens' initiatives and multi-annual support projects amounted to 90% of the total revenues of the National Foundation, which means that the National Foundation spends only slightly more than 10% of the funds to carry out its activity and 5% of the total income on salaries of 15 persons employed in the Foundation. The Foundation successfully concluded the past business year in which it allocated over 300 financial forms of support to civil society organisations deployed in all Croatian counties, which allow employment or employment relations for a total of 540 people, which is extremely important at the time of the recession and including a total of 3671 volunteers and volunteers in local community development projects and democratisation of Croatian society. This year's national foundation marks the 10th anniversary of its draft. In the past 10 years, it has proved the importance of its role as a social innovator and supporter of civil society organisations, which through financed programmes and actions and paved the way for social change in the Republic of Croatia. In doing so, the National Foundation has invested 300 million kunas in over 4 thousand financial support to civil society organisations from civil society initiatives, projects, institutional support to physical and software infrastructures for civil society development, thus enabling the employment of nearly 5,000 people, including over 100 thousand volunteers and volunteers involved in supported projects, the Foundation has also shown awareness in the management of funds from public sources according to international standards and Croatian regulations in the area of trust. In addition to financing all quality applications of civil society organisation, the National Foundation has been geared up by increasing the basic property to more demanding conditions when we become a full member of the European Union. Thus, at the beginning of last year, she referred to the competent authorities of the state administration a proposal to use such increased fixed assets through the Europe Plus programme to ensure the inter-financing of projects of civil society organisations from Croatia, which were granted financial support from EU funds, and through an initiative to establish a new financial institution, bank or ethical social investment bank, which would support citizens and social entrepreneurs to implement projects and innovation that could not be covered by regular or already existing HABOR programmes, i.e. to fully finance them from national or European public sources. Budgetary supervision of the Ministry of Finance, which lasted from January to June of this year, was carried out at the National Foundation. During the supervision, it was established that the National Foundation worked in accordance with the Law of the National Foundation, the Foundation and Foundations Act, the Regulation on criteria for the identification of users and the way in which the work of the gambling revenue is distributed and other relevant regulations. And its opinions and suggestions expressed in the minutes on budgetary supervision The National Foundation considered and respected what was confirmed in the meetings of the Management Board of 20 September and in a letter sent by the Foundation to the Vice-Presidents of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Administration and Association. The National Foundation is aware that there is neither in the wider nor in the professional public in Croatia enough information on the principles and legality of the operation of the foundation. What is most important is the understanding that the Fund is an asset and that the increase of that asset is different from the fund that the money enters and is fully deployed for the purpose for which it is established. In the case of a national foundation, increasing the underlying assets and investing in areas operated by regional foundations, partners in implementing a decentralised funding model are part of the basic property management programme and self-financing of the activities of the national trust that are being improved and adopted in the development of each new four-year strategy of the operation of the national trust with each new merger of the Management Board. So the new programme was adopted for the period from '12. Until '16. A year. The National Foundation provided information on the increase of the underlying assets to the Ministry of Administration every year and regularly reported to the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian Parliament through its annual reports. The minutes on budgetary supervision carried out have shown that the opinion is that the Management Board should be represented by the Office for Associations which the Foundation cannot influence, given that the composition is determined by the government's first decision to convene the Management Board. The second recommendation was that the trust should be employed by the internal auditor, which in fact became current only by our accession, i.e. by obtaining accreditation for the management of the European Union funds when auditors from Brussels and our auditors from Croatia agreed that there was no need for the institution of 15 employees to hire an internal auditor because it was ineffective and overpriced, but the central harmonisation unit of the Ministry of Finance confirmed that it was possible to hire internal auditors of the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy as our managing body in the system of management of the European Union funds and the Government's Internal Audit Office when auditing the work of the Association Office which is the Executive Body of Level 1 and the Foundation is the Executive Body of Level 2. The third question raised in the budgetary surveillance itself is the question of the effectiveness of the action of the Action Centre and the society that the Foundation established, which was explained and explained that the action was indeed positive in times of recession, given that the Action Centre in Zadar and the company itself did business with the gain last year itself. The fourth question was related to the investment of the underlying assets of the foundation in areas in which regional foundations operate together with us by a decentralised model, which we also explained that we respected the regulation on the criteria for the use of gambling funds and that these spaces were actually given to the use of the trusts that our partners are. The fifth question was related to the management of the underlying assets in money and the related need to return to the state budget, which also found that this obligation did not exist and that the national trust, by increasing the assets, actually showed awareness in the management of the assets and the preservation of the public funds that are now very important to us in this process, i.e. during this period when we entered the European Union. The proposal was also to pay employees at the National Foundation to comply with public service salaries which we had no objection to, but by no law means we are neither civil servants nor public servants but we have no problem in getting those things in line and we have also shown that. It was also unfounded in the record on the conflict of interest of the chairman of the Management Board, since it did not make or sign decisions at all on the subject to which it was put as a conflict of interest and it was documented during budgetary surveillance. The eighth question was about the rationality of contracting legal advice and services. It is a contract at the monthly level of 5000 kuna where legal advice and services are actually used for the needs of the national foundation and for associations that are users of our funds, and here we have proven that hiring lawyers would cost a lot more than this, but there is no problem in respect of the proposals made in budgetary surveillance. Finally, an opinion on the rationality of the engagement of external transport services in relation to the purchase of the service vehicle was also argued. So, in recent years, we have estimated that it is economically not effective to buy a vehicle when we do not need it daily, or only for certain types of field visits, but when we are accredited, it has been modified and the board of directors has decided to buy a medium-class vehicle used for field visits to all those associations that have been approved by the National Foundation. So, finally, let me just say that by respecting the proposals and opinions of the minutes on budgetary supervision carried out and considering the overall activities that the National Foundation had carried out during 2012, and in the past 10 years we have been found in the conclusion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia since 3 October, which has not given a positive opinion on the Annual Report on the work of the National Foundation in 2012, which is more about recommendations for improving work rather than on illegal behaviour in the work and business of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development. The vast majority of recommendations made in the report on budgetary surveillance and in the government's opinion have already been made, and the rest will be implemented by the end of this year. The National Foundation has always been and will be open to all proposals for the promotion of their work and the proposals it has seen for years by the civil society organisation so that the Government of Croatia's proposals will certainly respect and we regret that these proposals are not previously taken into account because then we believe there would be no need for a positive opinion on our annual 2012 report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54497	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the name of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Ante Babic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54498	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear manager Plavša-Matic, colleagues and colleagues. Today's civil society has become a market for generally beneficial and charitable support that takes place through different types of organisations, while the results of their work must be made available to the public as... existence. The work of civil society includes that part of the population that realizes that only by active role and engagement can change everyday life through action, i.e. co-creation of decisions, regulations and recommendations. In European countries, civil society has a long tradition, at a high level of development and of great importance and impact on the current social processes. Civil society organisations' views on all current issues are important, and activity in one of the civil society organisations is a factor of great importance in the eyes of observers. In countries of high democracy organised by civil society, for example, universities and religious communities, humanitarian organisations, as well as all organisations of general interest. In Croatia, the concept of civil society is relatively unexplored, i.e. a relatively new area with a short history of which the rest of society sees even with certain irony, without even talking about the value or strength of their influence. It is alarming that many citizens do not recognise the work and importance of civil society, because indeed the strength, the dynamism of civil society is a measure of a more developed democracy. I'd say not just a measure. She's a differentiation of Western democracy specifics. Exactly the existence of such a strong, dynamic, plural, civil society and what distinguishes Western democracies from what some statesmen once said, that everything must be within the state, nothing outside the state. In fact, nothing beyond the control of the state apparatus. This very dynamism, this pluralism of civil society, is what distinguishes our democracy from that totalitarian system that until the 1990s ruled Central and Eastern Europe. The communism of any type, that Stalinist or Titoist, has always denied free and plural civil society. However, the prerequisite for this is understood that this civil society is indeed developing in the spirit of pluralism. Because nothing would be worth it to us if the NGO were just some cover or extended arm of political options or even worse one and only one ideology. Civil society is also expected from NGOs to be able to pursue the general good, to use public space, as well as public funds that are not small for the promotion and tolerance and dialogue of public, not just particular interests. According to some data, there are about 50,000 associations in Croatia, i.e. almost 8 new associations are registered daily, most of which are sports, then cultural, and many of them are phantom or which exist only on paper for various reasons. A small part of the allocation is also intended for civil society organisations from the state budget, while a part of the financial means for the operation and functioning of the same can be obtained from European and private funds, companies and international organisations. But I have to ask the question over and over again whether taxpayers' money is being allocated in such a democratic and plural way, that there are no associations that may not be in place because they represent certain ideology, perhaps some privileged position. It is estimated that about 6,000 civil society organisations in Croatia are actually active as well as publically known, as few as possible, as the basic source of funding through various donations. Organizations must compete and build friendships with sponsors, donors, lottery players and others who can contribute to their promotion. By profiling a particular civil society organisation, the number of members of the organisation itself is also increasing, and the funds are later allocated to membership fees, as well as income from their own activities such as publishing, consulting and sales. For the purpose of encouraging the development of civil society in 2003, the National Foundation for Civil Society Development was established in Croatia, whose 2012 report is the subject of this debate. The most significant achievements of the Foundation during 2012 include its accreditation by the European Commission as an implementing body for the management of EU pre-accession funds for civil society for the IPA programme, i.e. the fourth component – the development of human potentials, and the European Structural Funds, which are the source of the financing of civil society organisations. More recently, a growing number of foundations are operating outside the borders of the country in which they were established through the implementation of international programmes and cooperation, and with the help of a well-being platform to which thirty civil society organisations represent their activities and make donations via the Internet, it is possible for Croatian civil society organisations to enter the global donations, i.e. projects will be able to be presented on the Global Fund platform... from Switzerland, which operates in more than 30 countries of the world. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The report also recognises the need to invest in local communities through the decentralisation of community social capital tenders on partner regional foundations, as well as the launch of a joint better competition aimed at investing in the joint work of units of local and regional and regional self-government and its citizens. A way to identify and support social innovations is designed to help social change in the country through the award of ideas for good social engagement. Different forms of cooperation with the Centres of Knowledge for Social Development and Ministry have been opened, and partnership programmes have been continued. I have seen in the report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development something that I consider necessary prominent. Let's also look at this evenly represented association. They may have or should have spoken about it, but in more than 50% of the organizations that received support have headquarters in Zagreb only as far as institutional support may have received institutional support from Ličko-Senjska, Međimurje, Sisak-Moslavina, Virovitica-Podravska and Zadar County. The role of civil society is important for every democracy and modern social order. Croatia should therefore continue to promote further development and strengthening civil society organisations. Experience gained by Croatia during the EU accession process and the challenges faced by so-called The Croatian model is valuable to candidate countries for EU accession, which face similar difficulties, and is recommended to take some steps in cooperation with candidate countries in order to transfer knowledge acquired, for example through the participation of our representatives at different seminars, round tables and workshops. Croatia should help to raise the quality and organisation of civil society in candidate countries as part of its opportunities and specialized knowledge and experience. One of the forms of participation of the civil society of Member States in the EU decision-making process is also through the European Economic and Social Committee, which is an EU advisory body and represents the interests of different economic and social interests, i.e. a group of employers, scientists, farmers, etc. The maximum number of members is 350, and the number of members of individual Member States who propose their governments is determined according to the size of that Member State. Croatia has a total of 9 representatives. Three representatives of the Association of Employers, three representatives of workers and three representatives of organisations of different interest. In any case, further development and strengthening of civil society organisations should be welcomed and supported even though positive developments in Croatia are already visible in accepting the views of civil society organisations. Finally, citizens in the civil sector can meet their needs in association, employment, creative work and, in addition, their active role and participation in the creation of the position of society can change the circumstances of everyday life or reality. In Croatia it is necessary to further strengthen civil society organisations, i.e. to support their development through the follow-up of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, through the integration and cooperation with European and world civil society organisations for the purpose of exchange of views and experiences, and what is particularly necessary to further work is to present civil society organisations to the Croatian public, i.e. to sensitise our public with their role and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54499	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected representative, Domagoj Hajdukovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54500	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished lady manager, colleagues and colleagues. Democratic societies, including Croatian society, characterise the existence of three sectors. The public representing a state, a private one representing both the market and the civil one. It is in the interest of each democratic state to strengthen and protect the last two sectors, therefore private and civil, in order for society to act more freely towards the public sector and for the purpose of making better quality measures for executive and legislative authorities, measures that also take into account the needs of individual groups within society. Free association and self-organisation of citizens and building social capital and integration is at the heart of every democratic society. The ultimate goal of the same is to enable different groups within society to express, promote and affirm their values and their views, inform the public and the authorities of problems and shortcomings in society and to actively act and change society. I would not like to name anyone individually but here I must point out that we have a whole series of good examples of practices throughout the Croatian Associations and initiatives dealing with humanitarian work, youth, affirmation of certain rights or by warning about the lack of them and similar and what is very important encourages the culture of volunteerism. We have already talked in this House about the values and importance of volunteerism as social capital, untapped social capital more or less when we changed the Voluntary Law, i.e. about volunteering. And it was then pointed out that civil society is precisely one of the main generators of volunteerism and culture of volunteerism in the Republic of Croatia. That's the same thing you should especially point out. Civil society, i.e. the civil sector, also includes the existence of a non-profit sector, cross-sectoral cooperation, civil initiatives, philanthropy, volunteering and the improvement of democratic institutions of the state. These values, as well as the need for institutional support for civil society, have also been recognised by the Republic of Croatia and by the private law of 2003 the National Foundation for the Development of Civil Society has been set up to discuss today's Annual Report. The Foundation's tasks, as it says in the law itself but also in this report, are to promote and support the development of civil society with the ultimate goal of creating active citizenship in the development of modern Croatian society. I believe that these tasks, as well as the active objectives in their achievement as set by the foundation, are something that everyone in this House can say by consensus that they are important and desirable for Croatia. The work of the Foundation for 2012 should especially highlight several items. Last year, the European Commission credited the trust as an implementing body for the management of EU pre-accession funds for civil society for the IPA programme as well as structural funds after EU accession. In the past year, the foundation has also invested in development and contributed to the stability of civil society with 40 million kuna in activities related to the common good. The manager mentioned that by investing in the civil sector and employed 540 people, which is extremely important at the moment of Croatian society and economy, and that a total of 3671 volunteers and volunteers are involved. These are impressive and important figures. The Plus computer support programme has taken over 16... the state administration thus allowing the pooling of data on the allocation of financial support to civil society organisations from the state budget. The question that can possibly be asked is why just 16, why not more, why not local self-government units? Was that program even designed to be used in local self-government units? A financial support platform is also designed.hr as a central place of connection between financial support providers, recipients and citizens. Each networking, each merger itself means by doing so and reducing the necessary actions needed during work to make it easier to work on citizens' initiatives and associations that want to be financed from public funds. So that's more than commendable. A new form of development cooperation in the field of the Centre for Social Development in the Republic of Croatia has also been opened and cooperation has been achieved with the restoring ministries for individual associations for the purpose of training associations from their portfolio for the use of public funds from the Republic of Croatia and the EU. The names are also listed by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Ministry of Defence. It is true that there are a whole range of associations dealing primarily with this social component, associations dealing with young people, defenders' associations or victims of the Homeland War, but we think it is important to expand this cooperation to other ministries as there are also associations not covered by the activities of these two ministries. What is particularly interesting is that the analysis of 111 civil society organisations supported by the foundation in this year provided data on the ratios of funding of associations. The manager has already mentioned it, but I believe it is necessary to point that out again. In fact, supported organisations have generated a income of 112 million kuna, 45% of which has been achieved from EU funds or other international sources. The state budget and other public funding at national level resulted in around 25% and about 9% of the local self-government units budget, while the remaining 21% represent the share of funding from citizens' donations, the profit sector of membership and so on. We believe these are indicators that the civil sector in the Republic of Croatia is healthy in the sense that it is well prepared for the circumstances of Croatia's entry into the EU. We must say that the civil sector was here ahead of us I would dare say that the public administrations in the sense that they were more focused on the EU's international funds and funds, or on international funding, and that, in accordance with this, they had better prepared themselves, or were more prepared for them than a radical change, but only a continuation of what they had so far made less order. The only thing that changes therefore does not apply to pre-accession funds, but now to structural, cohesion now depends on what activity the work is. However, while all that has been done is commendable, it is also necessary to warn of certain labour shortages. Namely, the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Ministry of Finance gave a negative opinion on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, i.e. on the annual report on the work for 2012 since the Ministry of Finance carried out an audit or carried out or reviewed the budget financing of the Foundation and the conclusions proposed by the Foundation were reached, the manager explained this part, the Foundation submitted objections which were rejected, and part was addressed to the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia. So it's about failures that have the potential to be and really serious. In fact, when the foundation was established, it was founded with a founding role of two million kunas while the current assets of the foundation amounted to 54 million kuna. So you're asking the question of the purpose of the trust, the existence of the trust? The money that is not invested in projects is transferred annually, invested in real estate or stored in cash. And it stands by me because here I am not coming from Zagreb, and my colleague Babic mentioned before me that most of the financed associations are right from Zagreb, why is this money being transferred, why is it not invested in more evenly or stronger regional funding? If you compare the data we received in the annual report, the data tells you that the most associations, which is also logical since the city of Zagreb and the largest city in the Republic of Croatia and the largest unit of local self-government are applied by 220 users. If you compare this to a smaller Bjelovarsko-Biogorje County but if we look at only 18 applications, it was from that county, or if you want from Požega-Slavonska 21 applications, from Krapina-Zagorska 15 applications, etc. According to the allocations, this disproportionateity is seen in the same way. So the associations from the Zagreb area invested slightly more than 12 million kuna while, for example, associations from the region of Bjelovar-Bilogor County were spent or invested just slightly less than 300 thousand kuna. It is therefore important to consider the option that the funds remaining neutral, which have so far been allocated to stronger regional competitions, or to try as much money as possible and to place regionally, since they do not have all the counties, cities and municipalities equally developed and an equally strong civil sector that does not have enough capacity primarily for human beings to report to competitions that have very strong competition. It also raises the question of funding, and I am glad that the manager said it, though, is not an association but a legislator who regulates the law on the existence of a foundation, which is why we did not foresee that a representative of the Government Office for Associations is sitting in the Board of Foundations. Since the Foundation is financed exclusively through the Office of Association, it is logical for me to have their representative and participate in the work of the Governing Council and thus to control the work of the Association itself. The director also mentioned that everything has been notified to the Ministry of Administration which is true and here is just a comparison I will give you a few things that have happened with chronology that we also need to review as legislators and see if we want the foundation that deals with promoting civil society to exist in this form. In fact, on 16 November 2010, the Foundation for the Resolution of the Ministry of Administration of the Foundation approved the registration of amendments to the statutes, which says that the Foundation can make economic use of its underlying assets and assets that are given to make use of the revenues it will use for the implementation of the programme and the basic purpose of the operation of the Foundation. However, we think that the realisation of revenue from these funds should not be further invested in the assets of the trust but be placed on the end users. On 26 June 2012, the Ministry of Administration delivered a decision by the Management Board of the Foundation on the establishment of the balance of the underlying assets of the Foundation. So 2012 21.June basic assets in money amounted to 22.5 million kuna while in real estate they amounted to 22 million 447 thousand kuna. On the 27th of May this year, this property is 29 million kuna in money, while in real estate it remained at the same level, with the underlying assets being used for further investment in the property of 4 million kuna. What remains to us as a legislator, and here I am pleased to hear that the manager has accepted most of the suggestions that the Ministry of Finance has told us whether we want a trust in this form, a trust that obviously has an excess income and whether it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia that this surplus income which has remained neutral so far or which has been transferred into the underlying assets or to the capital of the trust whether it is in the interest that the trust is increasing its assets or that this money is being placed directly on the users again, first of all, on the principle of regional development that this money can be used actively to improve the conditions in its local environments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54501	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dear colleague Vishnya Fortuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54502	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Thank you, Your Honor, the Director of the Foundation. [[Intruder: Here are your colleagues.]] In addition to the Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development in 2012, as well as in all previous years in a simple and summarised way, a review of all the smaller or larger achievements of many people working in the association organisations of civil society is given in a positive social, change to act for the general good, democratisation and development of Croatian society. In 2012 the National Foundation affected the social change and development of civil society in our country through... the diversity of their forms of support. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The financing of short-term civil initiatives addressing problems in the community through projects contributing to democratisation and civil society development, promoting and strengthening civil society organisations as well as quality and reliable public service providers at local and regional level and strengthening the institutional and organisational development of associations, enabling the integration between civil society organisations, rewarding children and youth for volunteering, empowering local self-government units to jointly implement projects of the social development of the local community of participating democracy, opening up public space through non-profit media projects, supporting international and development cooperation provided by civil society organisations and contributing and transfer to knowledge and experience from Croatia to the international community. The regional development of civil society in the Republic of Croatia is further balanced. The channels of direct influence of the civil society organisation from Croatia are being opened on the adoption of public policies at European level through an action office in Brussels and supports programmes that introduce a system of quality action. By launching development initiatives during the recession and crisis, the National Foundation has succeeded further, it has introduced an additional factor of stability in the sustainability of civil society organisations through two specialised Europe plus programmes for well-being. And there is a continued trend in supporting employment in civil society organisations. In this way, thanks to the National Foundation's investments in support of civil society organisations, a total of 540 volunteers and volunteers are also allowed to be employed, i.e. a total of 540 people. In 2012, the National Foundation was for the sixth time recited in implementing a system of quality action according to the international ISO standard from 2001 to 2008 in the field of managing the funding process of civil society organisations. In addition, the European Commission accredited the National Foundation on 16 August last year as an implementing body for managing the pre-accession European Union funds for the field of civil society and, as of this year, it has been worth congratulating for the Structural Funds, especially the European Social Fund. If we remember one of the previous National Foundation reports, if I am not mistaken in 2011, in which on a very simple example, the importance of the work and investment of the National Foundation in projects and sustainability of civil society organisations has been confirmed, and how this has multiple meaning, given that civil society organisations supported by the National Foundation have managed to attract four times more funding from the European Union and other international funds than the amounts invested by the National Foundation. This therefore shows how important the role of the National Foundation is in the process of a stable, continuous and transparent support for the development of civil society in our country, and how strong organisations in the Republic of Croatia can attract a lot more money than we can draw from the state and local budget, thus ensuring greater employability and social development. However, the National Foundation has not only provided support for already successful civil society organisations, but through development programmes it invests in civil society in a long-term way to prepare quality for a new financial resistance with more development opportunities through the use of the European Union's structural and other funds now that Croatia has become its full member. In this context, the continuity of the implementation of the Regional Development Programme and the strengthening of the capacity of civil society organisations at local and regional level and the decentralised model of funding for civil society development in the Republic of Croatia through which the National Foundation has built an entire infrastructure from its committed partners, which affects the equating regional development of civil society with adequate financial support available at local and regional level. In this way, the synergies between social and financial capital in the local community has been successfully achieved, thereby linking and actively contributing citizens and citizens to the sustainability of local community development and quality of life. I would point out here, for the last 10 years, that all the National Foundation has managed to do, how much money it has invested in supporting the development of civil society, and how it has built its visibility, professionalism and ethics in business not only in the Republic of Croatia but also in the region of Southeastern Europe, but also in the wider international community that it has started pioneering the way of development of the foundation in the construction of a modern Croatian society, that it is from its innovative programmes to a decentralised model of regional development, civil initiatives, institutional support to the knowledge centre for social development and social... ensure equality of support for the development of civil society. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54503	Thank you. The closing word belongs to the chairman of the Management Board of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development of the respected Svetana Plasti-Matic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54504	Dear MPs and MPs, thank you for this debate, and I point out that everything that was stated in the budget surveillance record itself does not really indicate any criminal offences. What we're doing, we're doing for the greater good and we're trying to get the resources that we're responsible for to invest in the highest quality projects. So no regulation has been broken regarding the increase in the underlying property because the property is a trust. The fund without the property cannot function, cannot carry out its function in the long term. The Association Office, I know the value and role of the Association Office because I was the first head of the Government's Association Office and we have absolutely no objection to a representative being on the board of directors, but it was not the government's idea in 2003. The idea was to be representatives of the three ministries, the Ministry of Finance to control the spending of funds, the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs because civil society should have been involved in European processes and the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, because without working with children and young people, we will not achieve the development of civil society. The question was why only 16 state administration bodies were involved in this support programme plus because it is the number of state administration bodies that are actually working with civil society organisations and giving them funds, and local self-government units have already shown some interest and we believe that together with the Association Office we will make additional efforts to include them in this programme. I hope that when we report on the work for 2013 next year we will actually show that we are ready to make all these proposals and suggestions that we have received advance and spend in our work, and that the funds we have increased actually serve the general good and what is most important to us now, and that is the interfinancing of European projects because we have invested 5 million kuna in this year already. I believe it will be even more by the end of the year. And as far as regional development is concerned, we believe the only public institution that has really decentralised funds and activities at local and regional level, and now with a new model that has adopted an inter-resorial commission headed by Mrs Opačić, I believe even more in 2014, given that one part of the ministries that do not have the capacity to conduct their competitions will do so through the National Foundation or its regional partner foundations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54505	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54506	Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2012. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Annual report on the work of the National Foundation for Civil Society Development for 2012 is hereby adopted. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion is not accepted. The conclusion received 10 votes for, 6 against and 100 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54507	We move to the next item of the agenda - The 2012 Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts report was submitted by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Education, Science and Culture. I ask now, would the proposal's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Paul Rudan, Secretary General of the HAZU. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54508	Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Madam MPs, distinguished gentlemen of the Parliament, distinguished colleagues, ladies and gentlemen. Let me give you a warm welcome at the beginning of this presentation and wish you successful work at the assembly session and, according to the established practice, to the results of the work and activities of the members of the HAZU during 2012 which was successful in all fields, in scientific and artistic work, in the work of the Academy classes, in the institutions and scientific and research units, in the scientific councils, museum-galerian units, cabinets, in the composition of the professional services of the committees and other bodies of the HAZU, then at the meetings of the Academy, in the work of the Bureau, in its committees, as well as in the publishing activities of our academy. We all know very well that the Croatian Parliament on 29 April 1861 following an extraordinary presentation of the direct need to establish an institution for this abandoned people that the Parliament has decided to establish an institution called the Academy of Scientiarum et artium Slavorum.... As founder of our academy we are obliged to do so now we are doing so on behalf of the Academy of the Assembly of the Republic of Croatia to submit a report. I have to tell you that you've all received a report on our work, it's a yearbook, that book where we list our activities during 2012, and I have to say that it's the 116th book of the year because it's been clearly described for 116 years what we've been doing every year. We need to conclude that by its scientific and artistic action, the academy burst from time to time with a pure flame of intellectual and moral conscience and it continued to be until today. As for 2012 there were 6 meetings of the HAZU Assembly, 79 scientific meetings, consultations and round tables, 103 scientific and professional lectures, 53 presentations of books, presentations of programs, conferences for journalists and screenings of films, 50 festivals, awards and concerts, and exhibitions in the Academy Museum-Gallery Units. It was defended by our scientific staff of 7 doctoral dissertations and one master's work, hosted 10 delegations from foreign delegations who visited the academy, and unfortunately 5 memorial meetings were held by our respected deceased members. With special attention and pride, we can say that in 2012 a new 18 regular members, 8 letter members and 10 associates were elected at the election assembly in HAZU, and four members of the co-workers were re-elected. On 31 December 2012, HAZU had 144 regular members, 137 letter members and 82 co-workers, i.e. On that day, the academy had a total of 363 members. We regret that during 2012, we lost 10 of our respected members who died, 7 regular members, 2 associates and 1 correspondent. During 2012, the Academy held 2 regular and one extraordinary session of the Assembly, one session, one election assembly and the solemn announcement of new members. At the first extraordinary session of the Assembly on 18 January 2012, the Academy adopted a referendum on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. 90 members of the academy voted in favour of the statement, 2 members were against it, and 1 were abstentions. The following day, on 19 January 2012, a statement by the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts was published calling on the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to vote for the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. Reports on the overall work of the Academy in 2011 as well as the final account for 2011 and the draft financial plan for 2012 were adopted unanimously at the regular Assembly in March, as shown in the 115 book of the Yearbook. The event was held on 26 April 2012 and was awarded awards from the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for the highest scientific and artistic achievements in 2011. New members of the Croatian Academy were elected to the election assembly on 10 May. For the regular members of the academics Gordan Smrić, Davor Krapac, Nenad Vekarić, Andrej Duela, Vitomir Šunjic, Dario Vretenar, Igor Anić, Vladimir Bermanec, Mladen Juračić, Ivana Vegan Đurašević, Josip Madić, Davor Milic, Goran Filipi, Ranko Matasović, Zoran Kravar, Boris Senker, Viktor Zmegač and Stanislav Tuksar. For letter members are selected: Mladen Bestvina, Stevo Julius, Lojze Lebić, Ante Munjiza, Marko Mušić, Svante Pejbo, Mario Suško, Ignacija Voje. And 10 co-workers were selected for 10 associates Nenad Muhacanin, Tomislav Cvitaš, Željko Cvetnić, Alemka Markotić, Mirna Šitum, Daria Gabrić Bagarić, Silvana Vranić, Kazimir Hraste, Kuzma Kovačić and Berislav Šipuš. The solemn declaration of 40 new members of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts held on 12 June 2012 and the new members were ordered the Charter of Membership. The December regular assembly, held on 20 December, presented work plans for 2013 published in the book Work Plans and was unanimously accepted as well as a proposal for the first changes and addition of the Croatian Academy's financial plan in 2012. The Academy Presidency held 11 sessions in 2012, of which 9 regular and 2 extraordinary sessions. At all regular sessions, the Bureau took note of academics Zvonko Kusic, president of the Academy of Activities held between the two sessions. The presidency also held an extraordinary memorial session on 4 October in honor of the late President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr Boris Šprem. Regular meetings of the Academy’s presidency discussed all important issues as shown in the book of Letopis. The Academy has 6 committees – the Committee for International Co-operation, for the Awards, for the restoration of the arboretum Trsteno, for the cooperation of Croatian universities and scientific institutions, for the coordination of the work of academic research and museum-galerium units, and the Committee for the Statute, then the editorship of the edition of Croatia and Europe and the Department for the Protection and Maintenance of Property. As regards the Committee on International Cooperation, it is my privilege to inform you that the Academy has been and has been a significant part of the membership of various international organisations such as... The Academy also has bilateral cooperation with 35 different Academy of Science and Arts of the World. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] The activities of the Academy during 2012 took place in 9 classes, 21 scientific research units, 3 museum-gallery units and 16 scientific councils. The Yearbook contains data on the composition of the class, on their overall activity, on all receipts and accepted manuscripts, on the work of all institutions and committees within the class, on lectures and meetings in the organisation of the class or academy, and on the activities of each member within or outside the academy. These data clearly show that the members of the Academy worked hard on their tasks, therefore there were no missing results. It is clear in the Chronicles that the members of the Academy have published hundreds of scientific and professional articles and discussions, or that they have presented numerous works of art. Many institutions and associations have awarded awards and high recognitions to some members of the Croatian Academy for their scientific and artistic work, which is also all shown in the book of Letopis. The Academy also takes place in other units such as institutions, centres, laboratories and cabinets. The academy has 23 such units. In Zagreb, 8 other 15 units are located outside Zagreb and three units are based in Dubrovnik, and one in Split, Zadar, Rijeka with the area unit in Pula, Varazdin, Bjelovar, Osijek, Vinkovci, Požega, Vukovar, Trsten and Cavtat. Their scientific and publishing activity was appropriate, which was also widely documented in the Chronicles. The Academy of Scientific Research during 2012 worked on 29 scientific projects. It's about what happened. the parent projects whose research is mainly carried out in the Academy and whose main researchers are exclusively or regularly members of the Academy or other scientists from the Academy's institutions and institutes, we can rightly say that in the final year of work on scientific projects. In 2012 according to published data in CROSBI CROSBI Croatian scientific bibliography the result of our work over 5 years of funding is impressive. A total of 2115 types of work has been published in all categories for five years. As far as employees are concerned, it is an honor to tell and inform you that 227 employees, 2 less than in 2011 and 37 scientific recruits, 3 less than in 2011. So, a total of 264 employees were employed at the academy. They work in 40 construction units, 26 units in Zagreb located at 10 locations and 14 units outside Zagreb. The structure of these 264 employees is as follows: 121 employees are in scientific cooperation or professional titles, 47 employees in museum-gallery, archival and library titles, 98 employees in professional services, arboretum not administrative and auxiliary jobs outside of Zagreb. A total of 264 employees were employed at the Academy on 31 December 2012. As regards museum and gallery units within these units of Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, Gliptotheka, Cabinet graphics, Strossmayer's gallery of old masters and Croatian Museum of Architecture work. All of these academy units were included in the international night of action Night Museum. In 2012, Gliptotheque held 12 exhibitions and 13 concerts, lectures, round tables and other events. All the exhibitions were accompanied by appropriate catalogues. In the Office of Graphics, 8 exhibitions and other events were organized, 6. triennial graphics, workshops. Also accompanied by relevant catalogues and electronic editions. Strossmayer's gallery of old masters was opened to the public with the permanent layout of the gallery, and the Croatian Museum of Architecture during 2012 held two exhibitions that were accompanied by appropriate catalogues and in public appropriately commented. I would like to inform you of respected ladies MPs and gentlemen representatives in the international action Night of Museum 32 units of Croatian Academy throughout Croatia visited a total of more than 7,000 people. In view of those Open Doors of the Academy, when certain parts of the Academy were visited by the entire population, more than 6,000 people visited the academy. The academy is, rightly speaking, open to the public. The Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts professional services include archives and libraries. In the archives of the Academy continued the process of computerization and the overall activities of the Academy, the collection of databases of archival funds and collections, the production of scientific information aids and audits of archival funds and collections were continued. During the course of 2012 the Academy library held numerous events, exhibitions, lectures and workshops. The library co-ordinated the work of the digital collection and 5 collections of the Academy library were included in the Register of Cultural goods of the Republic of Croatia and in the list of protected cultural goods. In 2012 we proudly say a total of 25,723 new records were made in the bibliographic database. The scientific councils and other bodies exist at the academy. During 2012, 14 scientific councils were involved in remote research, oil, transport, maritime, energy, agriculture and forestry, economic research and the Croatian economy, natural scientific research of the Adriatic, technological development, peace and human rights, public administration, justice and rule of law, tourism, construction and reconstruction and development, and a new Scientific Council for the Research Infrastructure of Croatia was established. In addition, the Croatian Crystalographic Community and two committees, the Committee on People's Life and Customs and the Committee on the Coordination of the Work of Academy Scientific Research and Museum-Gallery Units, as well as the International Committee for the Research of Boxite, Aluminium hydroxide and Aluminium. What we can really be proud of is the activities of the Croatian Academy during 2012 published a total of 102 volumes of various publications. 18 books, 19 chambers of papers, 33 volumes of journals, 4 books of abstracts, 3 statements, 11 catalogues of exhibitions and 14 monuments of the deceased academics. Since the mentioned 102 publications of the Academy I published itself 80 or as an executive publisher and as a co-issuer of 22 volumes. With the support of the Croatian Academy Foundation, publishers published 72 publications and 72 publications with the support of the Foundation. In addition, the foundation co-financed 152 projects and awarded 2 student scholarships from the Dragutin Tadjanovic Fund. The financial report and the 2012 final account are really interesting. The Presidency of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts at its 1st and 191st regular session held on 30 January 2013 discussed the results of the financial business period from 1 January to 31 December 2012 with the following situation: total revenues were made in the amount of 67 million 336 thousand 831 kuna and 70 June and 97.06% respectively compared to planned. In the structure of total revenues, the largest share of waste on revenues from the state budget is 77%, then its own revenues from the Academy 6.6%, the revenue from the support received from different ministries and the Office for Culture of the City of Zagreb 15.40% and from the budget of the units of local self-government 2.93% and the total income from donations of legal and physical persons of 1.05%. Total expenditure was made in the amount of 70 million 358 thousand 39 kuna and 58 June and 101.41% respectively compared to planned. In the structure of total expenditure 76.22% refers to employee expenditure and 2.38 per employee costs. Material and energy account for 4.18% service expenditure 12.99% and other unremarked expenditure 1.45%, other financial expenditures are 0.08%, scholarship and education expenditure 0.15%, current donations 1.27%, and non-financial assets purchase expenditure 1.30% of total expenditure for 2012. Ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the 2012 business, there is a lack of income compared to expenditure of 3 million 21 thousand 207 kuna and 88 June. However, we are aware of the fact that the negative result of the business is due to a number of unfavourable factors, especially the overall economic situation in our environment, which ultimately resulted in a reduction in revenues in the state budget that has also been reflected in the business of the academy. In fact, the revenues for the regular business of the Academy provided in the national budget for 2012 were lower by 5 million 128 thousand kuna compared to the revenues for 2011, if they were the same as in 2011 we rightly assume that the operation of the Academy would be positive for around 2 million kuna. However, we are not asking and we did not ask for some more money to be provided to the academy because at the end of the year the academy had covered the total deficit on the burden of accumulated funds generated from the title of its own income from the previous period. In conclusion, this report can rightly say that previous years, and especially last 2012, a major step has been made in efforts to open up the academy as much as possible to various media activities and thus to the general public. In this sense, contacts with public ballots have been intensified, but we are still not satisfied with the way some print media monitors the work of the Croatian Academy, so the new management headed by academics Zvonko Kusic, the president of the Academy has intensified all forms of collaboration with the media, but thanks to the efforts of all members of the Academy, our institution has opened to the public, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is recognised on Open Door Days by over 6,000 visitors, on Museum Night over 7,000. So I especially thank that part of the Croatian newspaper and the radio and television that regularly followed the work of HAZU and reported it mainly objectively to the public. We are proud to say that during 2012 in the Croatian Academy there are 102 publications and with the support of the foundation another 72 publications, which makes a total of 174 titles on Monday 3 to 4 titles a week. A total of 79 scientific meetings, consultations and round tables, 8 formal sessions, awards and concerts, 6 congregations, 10 foreign delegation visits, 103 lectures, 53 book presentations, presentations of film screening programmes, 42 exhibitions and, unfortunately, 5 commemorations of our respected deceased members were held. By completing this report, I must thank you for the dedicated work of all members of the HAZU and all employees because only all of us were able to perform before these numerous and diverse tasks in total during 2012 over 300 events in order to effectively and responsibly improve the activities of our academy as a temple of culture, temple of science, art and creativity. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54509	I thank the academic Rudan. We've got two lines reported. First, my colleague Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54510	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So here is Mr. Rudan, truly esteeming your institution, the institution you represent today in the Croatian Parliament, I will not talk about the selection of new members, although it may be discussed, but I will conclude with regret that unfortunately you have been in an economic crisis that has been shaking Croatia for several years, and in particular this year you spoke only in the section in which you spoke about the financing of the academy from the state budget. You said the academy was open to the public, unfortunately it's not visible enough, the academy's work isn't visible enough. I'm glad you mentioned the example when you supported Croatia's entry into the EU before the referendum in a public statement. To expect or at least my expectations are to hear your attitude and a public statement from the Academy, let's say on the referendum requested by the Association "In the Name of the Family", as regards the introduction of a provision into the Croatian Constitution that marriage is a community of men and women. 700 thousand citizens have signed that petition and we expect a referendum by the end of the year, it would be interesting to hear your attitude, the attitude of the academy that certainly has enough capacity and knowledge and to make good access to this problem and to make public its position. Just as it would be good to hear the academy's attitude about ways out of the crisis. The academy has the capacity to do that. It would be good to hear the academy’s attitude, and then you would really be available to the public. If we heard the Academy's attitude, let's say the amendments to the constitution and the basis of lex Perkovic. Croatia should indeed, the Croatian public should hear the opinions of the Academy on current matters. These are the current questions to be answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54511	I'm asking academic Rudan if he wants to respond to this replica because he has a right to do so. This is where you need to go. [[Can I get out of here?]] Turn on the microphone, you didn't turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54512	Thank you very much. I thank you very much, Mr Matusic. You have really asked some of the crucial questions that this entire people, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, are really important to our further life and progress. As regards the economic crisis and the way out and the way out of the crisis, as regards issues related to various legal problems within our legislation, I must tell you that in the Croatian Academy of Science and Art, a total of more than 20 different symposiums have been held in the last 15 years under the titles "The Strategy for the Reform of the Justice System", "The Reform of the Croatian State Administration", "The National Programme for the Prevention of Corruption", "The Reform of Administrative Judiciary and Management", "The Reform of Legal Education", "Modernisation of the Croatian Real Rights", "The Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union", "The Civil Law Responsibility in Medicine", "The Croatian State and Administration, State and Perspect", "The State and the Perspectives of the Republic of Croatia", "The Croatian Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is all the main institutions of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia of Croatia of Croatia, the Great of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia's most important, and the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, the Republic of Croatia, All this is located, Mr. Matušić, in the library of the Croatian Parliament. So, we can't be like the 152-year-old academy jumping from today to tomorrow, but we're very good at judging everything that's going on. And what you mentioned Yes, thank you very much. [[Intruder: Acadremic Rudan we have to break up here now, you have two minutes to answer.]] Excuse me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54513	Second replica, the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54514	Thank you very much. Mr. Rudan, the people and all of us experience the Academy as a national intellectual center. We all see it as the cornerstone of social development on which society is being built. We all see this institution as an institution of dignity and morality. And all of this you have now stated in your response to Mr. Matusic, you have spoken of the principled views of the debate on the scientific basis of the creation of symposiums, but we must admit that there are no positions on specific cases, on the events, on the path that Croatia is on. I don't consider it insignificant to open museums and 6 thousand visitors, but there's no voice and attitude of 350,000 unemployed. Never before has the Academy talked about it clearly. This huge moral and financial crisis has been left behind by a corresponding reaction and the attitude of the Academy. Unfortunately, once there was a symposium on the subject, you called for the opening of the topic by former President Mesic. And there are so many more invited to talk about this subject today. Even this economic science at one point considered it inappropriate because the remaining economic experts in the stands were missing. It's a vague attitude and the people wonder what HAZU's attitude towards here is, say, politics towards science. Is she satisfied with the science policy? What is the attitude toward education? He didn't respond to events at universities from law school. In Split, Faculty of Economics in Zagreb, Faculty of Transport and all other universities where the credibility of the university was at stake [[Intruder: Thank you.]] You're expected to hear your voice. [[- Okay. - Okay.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54515	Thank you. Would you like to respond to that replica? Please turn on the microphone again, just press it once, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54516	I thank you very much Mr. Maric for these questions because you have asked questions that are truly crucial and that we all need and not just members of the Academy to take care of. You asked questions about the economy, you asked questions about science, you asked questions about education. I also have to tell you that in the library of the Croatian Parliament, all these questions are answered through the following books you have and you can read: The crisis state of the Croatian economy and the direction of turning economic policy from pro-recession to development, judicial procedures and human rights, the Declaration of Knowledge, Croatia based on knowledge and knowledge application, Croatian language, the Declaration on the position of Croatian language, the importance of knowledge and the application of knowledge to exit from the crisis and the development of Croatia and the Croatian language. Therefore, the academy has responded to everything that is pressuring you, but the academy cannot interfere with the respected counterpart Maric in everyday politics because it is not her task. We're thinking, we're giving answers, but we can't respond to these answers. It must be you and this Parliament that de facto what the Academy has assessed with the most measured people and gave you a chance to come up with interesting, clear, strategic directions, to implement it. But thank you, I'm very nice, and I'm glad that you're clearly expressing yourself and showing what are the crucial issues of this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54517	Thank you. I now call on the vice president of the home of academics, Željko Reiner, to state the positions of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54518	Dear Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Secretary General of the Academy, colleagues and colleagues. Well first, we received a very comprehensive report with a series of data on the operation of HAZU during 2012, and how much the abundance of this activity actually tells this fat yearbook which has a 6-7 cm is thick and certainly testifys to a very significant and abundant activity. The Honorable secretary of the HAZU, academic Rudan, said something that might make it a little bit better. He said the academy is a temple of science, art and creation. It is and it is unequivocal, but it must not be just a temple. You come to the temple humbly, you come to the temple to experience something, something to look at, then you go out, and the academy is and there has to be something else. It is and was indeed in the past, and I think today is actually a conscience, a kind of conscience of Croatian society. On the other hand, she can't, she shouldn't, and she dares even say, "Maybe she shouldn't follow the day-to-day policy." It must give general direction to the development of Croatian society, it must design the direction of developing Croatian society to improve Croatian peoples. That's what the academy actually has to do. And it seems to me that from the replicas of my esteemed predecessors one can, however, understand something that needs to be said very clearly here. On the one hand, the Academy held a series of meetings and participated in the design of some of the Croatian society's creative issues regarding the economy, education, development of science, etc. But colleagues and colleagues, let's ask ourselves a different question. How many of these attitudes, how many of these groups have influenced the public, how many of them have been perceived by the public, how many messages have been transmitted to the public, and, of course, at the end of how much Croatian society has actually benefited from all of this, and we come to a much wider issue than the HAZU itself, we come to the fact that I rarely testify because in many of these meetings I have been where the media was called, there has literally not been a single representative of the media because, unfortunately, unfortunately, in our society in a situation that has developed what is creative, what is constructive, what it wants based on some scientifically thought-out results to give a concept of development, the vision of the future is not really interesting. It is not often interesting that some outbursts are interesting, sometimes some situations that differ from everyday life, and things that should be of interest to all of us, not only here in this hall, but the entire Croatian society is rarely shown as uninteresting, boring and the media are led by a different category of information, and there is one of the major problems. The academy has been working hard, especially in recent years to open up to the public, but this must be mutual. Opening in itself is positive and necessary, but on the other hand there must be some kind of receptority of what has been opened. the acceptance of this openness, the transmission of these data, the dissemination of these data so that they can really reach everyone who is interested and that they can have some influence. There is unfortunately a key problem because I repeat, I witnessed in a series of times when the media was invited to very important and very interesting meetings, symposiums, and nobody responded to them or possibly one or two journalists, and then literally two lines would come up in some press or be mentioned in some radio show with one or two sentences. And it seems to me that there is a problem which, as I said, is the surreal problem of the academy and the possibility of the Academy's influence on movements in Croatian society precisely because, unfortunately, much of what is going on in the academy is not being transferred and made public. And that's why we have as much perception as we have, despite the effort that has really been put on the side of the academy for the last few years, especially in this direction. There's one more thing to say. Sometimes it seems that the academy is the only building on Zrinjevac and many people do not know that there are 26 units of the Academy of which are located in Zagreb but in various locations, and 14 of them are located outside Zagreb. All of them operate within the academy, all of them are very active but their perception in the general public is I dare say equal zero practically. They are not known at all, and there live and work people who also contribute to the academy itself, but also to Croatian society, but again I say about what they do there is not known because it is not really known what is unfortunately done in the building on Zrinjevac. And that's one of the problems that I think we should all face together because it's doubtless that when we hear all about the Academy's activities in the past year, and we testify every year to reports that are always abundant with data on scientific and artistic work of the Academy where you can't really assume that the Academy isn't working. But I repeat the problem is that it's not perceived, because it doesn't reach the public. One of the problems I'm going to dare mention him here who has been going through for years was to rejuvenate the Academy, and yet another phenomenon that hasn't echoed in public, and should have been said by newly elected members of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts during this very year that we are now discussing, some people were very young especially to choose from in the academy. We had a 45-year-old academic choice, a few out of fifty years. There aren't many people in the world's major academys in those years who have been elected to the academy, because the academy is expected to be a membership of the academy in some way the crown of someone's life's work. Of course, this person is expected to continue to work in science. However, it is quite unusual for very young people to choose from the Academy. And here's proof of the fact that they're changing in fact and at the Academy it's just when you look at the selection of members of the Academy over the last year where there's a significant number of people, it's much younger than it was maybe a dozen or fifteen years ago. Therefore, it seems to me that what is happening at the Academy and what is done at the Academy is with messages that are very clear, and they are, and I think that the Academy will also be very sensitive to that precisely these burning issues of Croatian society, but not current political, but lasting issues are which the Academy must even more clearly express its views and give answers to these questions, but I am convinced that it will indeed do so, and in the end these discussions on the action of the Academy are also for us to pass on as representatives of Croatian citizens to the Academy what Croatian citizens expect it to do. I repeat, this cannot and must not be a lead for the current political moment, reacting to something that happened yesterday or the day before yesterday in the daily press or in the media in general. But there must be an answer to those questions that plague Croatian society not today but for a long time. I repeat, I am convinced that the Academy will hear this and will do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54519	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Goran Maric answered first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54520	Comrade Reiner, you said that HAZU should not be a temple but rather determine the general direction of the development of the Croatian state. Well, that's what my colleague Matusic and I used to say in our first report. It is indisputable that HAZU gave its clear through scientific symposia and scientific papers and announced all its strategic definitions. It's like you said Mr. Rudan it's true. But we didn't talk about it. We're talking about what HAZU does when it's deviating from these specifics, when society is on the sidelines, and when it's not on the trail of these specifics. The Croatian Academy's voice is expected to hear a view of the most important directions in Croatia, the most important things. Well, it turns out that maybe we don't read The Chronicles. That's not the reason. The reason is that we wonder why HAZU does not react and why it does not give its position. For example, we know about economic development, but whether the concession is a highway issue that will save Croatia or ruin Croatia. The people expect the HAZU to say its position because it will be more important, more measurable than any other opinion or political opinion. Is HAZU satisfied with Bologna or not? Is he satisfied with the state of the university or not? We don't know, there's no such attitude of the HAZU clear. What is the attitude towards existing fiscal and monetary policy? We know from symposiums and papers what HAZU thinks about economic policy, but what does it think of the current policy and policies of fiscal and monetary policy? Is that for the benefit of Croatia or not? There's no voice. That's the fellow Rainer we were talking about earlier and now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54521	Time. Thank you. We have an answer, Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54522	Dear fellow Maric, I can agree with you in some way but not entirely. So surely some of these things the HAZU should talk about and that is something that interests us all naturally. Here, you mentioned a bologna which is something important that has changed or should change, and perhaps it doesn't matter how high schooling is done in Croatia. And that's certainly one of those questions to talk about. I'm not sure if HAZu should say anything about the highway monetization. My position is clear on this, and I think many of us are clear that it is disastrous to sell out something that is worth all of Croatia's citizens. However, it is a matter of current policies. And the question is whether it would be good for HAZU to actually try to give answers to any of these issues of the current policy that would then, and these questions are of course such that they will be important to the opposing opinions that are related to the current policy. So, it's a matter of deciding whether not only highways but also many other things that want to be sold out now why to shut the gaps in the budget and manage to survive what month this government survives and then where my loved ones live. We all know that. However, only the question arises whether an institution as a HAZU should enter it or not? I'm not sure if I do, but some of these things that you mentioned the question of the concept of education and so certainly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54523	Thank you. Next replica, Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54524	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, co-worker and academic Rainer, this is not a replica in the right sense of the word, I just wanted to give you my full support in saying no politicization in HAZU. HAZU is one of the oldest institutions in the Republic of Croatia, I think it deserves to be out of politics and absolutely agree with you when you say that the job of HAZU is to bring guidelines, strategies, strategic thinking rather than dealing with day-to-day political matters. In addition, he actively participates in meetings of the Committee on Science, Education and Sports. So we can't say that the voice of the academy can't be heard. So the secretary is still present on these committees and you have something to say. And I don't remember an honest board on which you didn't say anything else. So we can't say that the academy is silent. You've seen the problem well, I've talked about it, and when we talked about the civil defenders, so we've got more specialists and we've often criticized them for public work, or that they're not public enough. However, it is a sad fellow, and I also agree with you that simply editorial policies of certain media do not allow such topics to break through what is said to be accepted by this, or major and breaking news. So it's another problem that we can discuss but it's not unfortunately in the domain of the academy or this House since it's more or less about private publishing houses that they own, they're independent in editing their own texts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54525	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Vice President Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54526	Well, of course, I don't have much to add, but to this last sentence of yours, that little incentive I have to admit, it's true that the media is mostly private. Not all, HRT is not private she is state television, she is not public, she is state television under the influence of the authorities. However, this is very clear as much as we can talk and hide behind this or that. However, many media who are private are in very close contact with certain political I would say options, and you can see that. You can see that very clearly, and you can see that, although some have almost become a newsletter I would say. However, it is saddened that we have a situation where indeed less and less dare I say almost no more media really care about things concerning science, art, culture, and education unless it's some kind of extreme situation and something like that. And that's unfortunately sad. Every normal country has a media that covers, of course, that segment of society. There are media that are more yellow, there are media that are more intellectual-oriented, I would say to the audience, etc. Unfortunately, our media is becoming less interested and less and less interested, and you can find actually reports related to this topic. That's one of the big problems I'd say Croatian society. Well, then, and that is why, rarely, and when we are discussing some topics here, they are treated as irrelevant, they happen in the afternoon, the media don't transmit them at all, and many other topics that may not be so crucial to Croatian society get big letters on the cover. And it is up to all of us to try, on us among other things, because we are also politicians and not just the transmissions of our parties is to try to change this situation in Croatian society.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54527	Thank you. Next replica, Frano Matušić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54528	Thank you. My colleague Reiner, so you're actually on the trail of that replica of mine when you said that you didn't actually get to the public work of the academy, no matter what Mr. Rudan said, it's open to the public. Apparently, the public doesn't have room for the academy, especially state television. And there's something to ask, actually, why isn't the state television promoting the same values that the academy promotes? And the academy needs to be a value defender. So I would not completely agree with you that the academy should not interfere with any issues that are political. After all, and what the academy does has to do with politics, and that's some politics. especially if we are talking about long-term processes and values. Mr. Rudan mentioned that they had a 20-year-old symposium, you were 20 years old in the Constitution, we're changing the Constitution today. You know what it means to change the Constitution in democratic states that have been pulling the tradition of democracy for over a century? What does it mean to change the constitution in the U.S.? So the whole society, all segments of that society would give their position on changing the constitution, there is no debate at all about not having their academy give its position on changing the constitution. The problem is that we cornered the academy, not us in the Croatian Parliament, but as the state television and the rest of the public read it, they put it in a corner and did not respect the values that are valued there and promoted through the work of the Academy, that is what this is all about and that is where we need to find the answer. Why wouldn't the academy give its view of changing the Constitution? If he can have a 20-year-old symposium, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia why he can't tell about the change in the Constitution that happens and why it happens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54529	Thank you. Next line, Jasen Mesic. Here you go, buddy. Thank you. We have a response from Vice President Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54531	Thank you very much for agreeing with my express view that the key problem in the follow-up of the Academy and generally even broader than the Academy, as I said about following art, science, education of everything that we feel is unfortunately too little present in our media, so we get the impression that certain and such top institutions are somewhere on the periphery, that there are no, that their voices are not heard, and we would all like to hear it or at least in that we would like to hear it. Therefore, if something is a message, at least it seems to me to be a discussion so far, it is that all of us should work together to enable such an institution, the top institution of the Croatian people to care for the care of science, art, culture that its voice is much stronger in public and then have a certain echo and a certain influence on that public because only when you hear a voice then something based on that voice can you do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54532	Thank you, too. On behalf of SDP Representatives Club Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54533	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear secretary of the HAZU, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I believe that sometimes in every society it is very nice to care for certain traditions in Croatia as well. I believe that HAZU is just one of those traditions because it is one of the oldest institutions in Croatian society. But another beautiful tradition is that it is the secretary of HAZU who submits the report to the Croatian Parliament. I think that last year we had some rather dissonant tones when some uninformed colleagues protested why the president of the academy did not come to the Parliament, but it is simply a beautiful tradition that I think we should continue to guard and hold because, as I said to HAZU, at least in my personal opinion, there is one special place in Croatian society. About the importance of the academy itself, I think it's said enough, that we don't have to owe too much and that it's a matter of consensus in this House more or less. It is a roof organization of Croatian science, Croatian art that generates scientific and artistic work and expression but also one that protects and promotes exactly that value. So if we're talking about the values that HAZU needs to promote these are values of ethical, scientific action, freedom of art, cultural work and other courses of the academy itself. I believe that in this exhaustive report that every year we get so extensively and which I secretary has already presented in my presentation but there are still some things that need to be repeated, and they say to the old Latina herself that repeating is the mother of knowledge. Of course, the Social Democratic Party Club of Croatia in the Croatian Parliament will support this report but I will now tell you why, i.e. I will give you a short cut of the work of the Academy which we hold extremely important and important for the academy itself and for Croatian society. So, in 2012, as the secretary said, there were 6 meetings of the Assembly, 79 scientific meetings, consultations, round tables, 103 scientific professional lectures, 53 presentations of books, presentation of programs, press conferences and film screenings. Among these I have listed many of them are precisely topics that are extremely important for Croatian society. And these are economic guidelines, guidelines, such as education, and here we now have a strategy for development, education, education, science and technology in public debate. In fact, the Academy itself has just drawn up guidelines for this strategy and it is certainly immeasurable and welcome to the contribution of the Academy in this segment of society to which it was nevertheless highly invited to respond. But the Academy and I are very pleased to say that it is increasingly open to the public and as such, so all Croatian society needs to use the resources of the Academy as much as possible. As I think academic Reiner also said the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts is the best Croatia has to offer in science and art. This should certainly be used primarily in strategic and long - term thinking. So the role of the Academy is immeasurable also in drawing up these guidelines of the strategy that I have already mentioned and which we will soon bring to this Assembly, but also a strategy that concerns all segments of life in Croatia. So he was scientific, educational, energy, economic and every other. Because we have top experts in these areas who are academics. In 2012, the Academy and Scientific Research Units worked on 29 scientific projects with the support of the Resorving Ministry, etc. the parent projects and the secretary was also already talking about it, and then I wouldn't particularly owe it. I am particularly pleased to point out that within the framework of museum and gallery activities and Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, gliptotheque, cabinet graphics, Strossmayer's gallery of old masters and the Croatian Museum of Architecture was included in the international action Night Museum. Thus, the Gliptotheque, for example, in 2012 presented 12 exhibitions and 13 presentations of books, concerts, lectures, round tables and other events. In fact, we talked about the public work of the academy or the involvement of the academy more into saying so to the social life of the community. Often in this House when we talk about any problem, I stress that education is one of the ways in which most problems are overcome. Our citizens, most of our citizens unfortunately did not have the opportunity to meet with a quality education for civil life. I hope that through an object that is intended to be introduced into schools, which is precisely that of civic education and that they will be better prepared not only for the meaning of the life of citizens, so political participation but also for those which all institutions exist in the Republic of Croatia and which are very important for the Republic of Croatia. One such institution is undoubtedly the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. I had a chance to talk to the president of the Academy. I am extremely glad that although he is what a man is said to be rich in experience but is open to new things, he is open to new approaches and is open to access and strengthening the public presence of the Academy. It is realized not only through this night of the museum, so not only in one night but through a series of projects. I can specifically say that it is a project of openness of the Academy of Science and Arts for students and students who are therefore being conducted with more or less enthusiasm, now it depends on the area in which it is concerned. And about the city of Osijek where the academy visited a series, or a number of students and students who therefore had firsthand opportunities to see what the academy is doing, who are the people who work at the academy, which means being an academic, etc. So, maybe these are the things that we in this House can take for granted. However, the sad situation is that many of our citizens are not sufficiently familiar with the work. The reasons for this are different, and here in previous discussions we heard some of them, but this approach is very, very commendable. Since it is right in the public debate that the Strategy for Education, Education, Science and Technology may be directed here as an initiative and suggestions for perhaps the secretary of the Academy himself to work here on compulsory inclusion in the curricula of primary and secondary schools and perhaps colleges. It means to include a visit to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts. So it doesn't have to be her here in Zagreb, but the Academy also has its branches. So I believe that both students and students would profit greatly from seeing and finding out what the Academy is. One of the problems pointed out by Mr. Reiner is therefore this problem of the media. Unfortunately, the situation is what the media is and believes it will improve as the Academy itself opens up to the public and that the very consciousness of our citizens about the work and existence of the Academy will grow. As I said, we see the Academy as one of the important institutions of Croatian society, as the bearer of all values regarding scientific and artistic action and from it and we expect it to continue to develop through the projects here which I have listed, some of them I have singled out specifically but there are many more, as the secretary mentioned, to continue to open up to the public, to continue to expand their awareness of their existence and work so that not only the work of the Academy would be better quality but also so that the voice of the Academy of Science and Art would be heard more in public. In the end, the SDP Club will support this report. We believe that the work of the Academy has been more than commendable in all areas so far. The more the academy referred to many things that are now plagued by Croatian society. No, I wouldn't say on a day-to-day political basis but more at some strategic level. And I am very pleased that the Croatian Parliament library also contains a very rich fundus not only of academic publications, but since we are talking about the Academy, so above all, the publications published by the Academy, which are the taste of scientific thinking and the conclusions that are based on the problems that plague Croatian society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54534	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Vice President Zeljko Reiner, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54535	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, I'm glad you spoke commendably of the academy but your exposure moved me one step further perhaps to say. We will be very likely to discuss the state budget recently. We're all going to have a moment to show if that's all, all the support we're giving the academy so earnestly is just formal and verbal or we really think so. Because in the end, when we talk about different institutions in the end, it comes down to talking about the budget whether we are going to finance it better or not. We all swore in our time that it would be a society of knowledge, that only knowledge could get us out of this difficult economic situation, etc., and then we see how we finance science. Catastrophic, never worse than today. I must say, last year, HAZU received five million kunas less than a year earlier. I only hope warmly that when we discuss the budget this year, when, of course, it will be said that Croatia is in a difficult economic situation, there is no money, etc., then it will not go back to the expense of the academy or science or education or culture, but that all these wonderful words that we say here over the years in praise of some institutions or some areas of social life will still be translated into kunas when we raise our hand for some proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54536	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54537	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear counterpart Reiner, I remember, namely I was a student when there was a lot of talk about Croatia as a country of knowledge, but I wouldn't want to politicise this debate because I think we're discussing an important report, so that we can speak these are guilty or they're guilty. I don't think guilt can be easily thrown on one side or the other but we still have to see one broader spectrum. Namely, I will use myself again and say this, and you have already prejudged in your replica that the Croatian economy and Croatian society are primarily in a difficult financial state. Unfortunately, the pain of such a financial situation must all try to share equally. Although I am aware of the fact that money and funding is actually at the end of the day what is most important and what worries us all, it was about home budgets or state budgets, but I think that the academy is there and that it promotes some other values that are not only necessary for money but very much with the knowledge and expertise and willingness of their members, therefore respected academics to contribute to the quality and better life of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54538	Thank you. Next replica, Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54539	Col. Hajdukovic, you said in the debate that HAZU participated in the development of certain strategies, so you took an example of education and should not be engaged in daily policy-based activities. And what are members of the outside committee from the HAZU when they discuss specific legal proposals? What's that? It's business and day-to-day politics. When they express their position in... on some proposed law because it's their personal attitude or the attitude of the academy? Well, they're on behalf of the academy external board members. It is true that, as the committees say, they should have the HAZU's position on the Law on Higher Education, on the VAT Act, on concessions on which only Croatia is silent. If it were in another civilised state, but Croatia would not be an association that would not have its position. If he has the Faculty of Economics, if he has the Institute of Public Finance, how come he doesn't have the HAZU? And I appreciate the academy's work, on the contrary, and it's worth mentioning Museum Days, but some Dubrovnik summer games have 10,000 visitors a day, walls 10,000 visitors have a day. So in one day more than four thousand than the total days of the museum, just the walls of one. Of the 11 million tourists that we are not able to do as Dubrovnik is able to do in this regard. But there can be no institution left indifferent, let alone HAZU at summer school in economic colleges. He can't, he doesn't have the right to do it, and he keeps quiet. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54540	Thank you. Answer, colleague Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54541	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague Maric, a personal attitude and a public attitude, or attitude of the institution he represents, so I don't think that academics who still come in front of the HAZU always have to speak necessarily on behalf of the Academy. Namely, the academy is the same plural body as this Parliament. You will also have people who have different political profiles, so that tends to this or that option, you will also have experts who advocate this or that solution. So if we have a debate within the academy itself, I believe there will be different opinions at the academy itself. I can only tell you in a way that even though I was speaking at a pay phone in the House on behalf of my club and on behalf of all my colleagues and colleagues from the SDP, that doesn't mean that I can't give a personal opinion about that speaker. I did, though, and I specifically underlined it. As far as higher education is concerned, this law means the Law on Higher Education and Scientific Activity, as I recall it was very much active on the board when this law was passed and as other colleagues, but we still see the secretary of the Academy as someone who acts as a duty within the Academy, so that he speaks with the voice of the Academy differently than to now say "usual academic" who is in front of the academy on a certain committee. Also, as far as finance is concerned, the monetization and similar colleagues you mentioned, Col. Rudan himself stated that there is a whole series of conclusions and publications that have been made about similar problems. I haven't read them, though, because I don't deal with this field, but I'm sure they have recommendations and conclusions that are now on matters is the state government's actual any way to respect them more or less. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54542	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club, my colleague Boro Grubisic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54543	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which has been working since 1861, fellow Members and colleagues. It says our people that we are all political and that politics touches us all. They say if you're not involved in politics, politics is about you, so if we could apply it to the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, then we could say a lot and see a lot. And the debate over the role of HAZU was well clouded mainly in the development of Croatian society, economy and in all other fields. Here one party or colleague Marić and others insists that the Croatian Academy of Science and Art is publicly involved in everything to say both daily and far-reaching consequences that will arise for Croatian society through the move, the current moves of the ruling. It would have been good if it had been before, if Croatia had been involved in previous moves, but it had not. So she stayed away a little bit, and as someone here said, she was more of a strategic guideline than she was involved in the day-to-day political problems that had arisen. Stav, it is said here that the Croatian Academy of Science and Art has clearly expressed its position on Croatia's entry into the EU. It seems to me that Mr. Secretary, I would even say it so commendably and in favour of the Academy, and then the citizens in the referendum that was in which the response was 20% decided there was a majority in Croatia's EU accession. HAZU has classes for both the right and all other economies and other social activities, so perhaps we wouldn't exactly expect it to come out first of all about changing the Constitution. Then on the successes or at least to conduct a research on the successes or failures of training in the Bologna process. Then on Croatian citizenship, it is said of civility, will not deliberately say Croatian civic. I call it Croatian civic education in schools, because Croatia has special specificities if we talk about civic education with a Croatian omen. But if we look at some other Academys that are about to occupy or play the same role in their societies or countries in which they operate, for example in Russia is Lomonosov's whether it is such an academy and say that the Russian government is very good listeners, listeners, and performs what this Russian Academy of Sciences and Arts thinks and puts on, so the Russian Government exploits the thinking of the Russian Academy. I would not like to talk about a neighbouring country that has its own, whose academy has its own memoranda and which long-term works on these memorandas, and we know which memorandas are and where these memorandas have brought us, nor would I want the Croatian Academy to act that way. But concerns and reflections about Croatian politics, Croatian society, the movement of the Croatian state, its role in Europe, in the European Union, in any case I think it should interest the members of the academy. The state television on which, with the other media or according to one note, the vice president and the academy both have shows such as Prizum, has a religious show and has it well. I'm not criticizing it because it's not good that they're not here, so then we have about Croats outside of Croatia, so we have about the sea show, etc. But when it occurred to anyone that perhaps more insight or knowledge might be given to the public about the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts, to achieve the results he presented to us and who are commendable to Prof. It's a mine to present them in public. We know that one image is worth more than 1000 words, so Croatia's television is the one, this medium, I'm not talking about commercial television. They have their own program and we can't influence them, but this is so-called. Public, so-called public television is actually a state that could promote the work of the HAZU. But we have witnessed that some other topics are much more important on both commercial and so on. I am not going to criticise some Mamic, Simon, Antu, Nives Celzius, Modni cat, Karluse, Severine, Rozge and I do not know who everyone is, but rather the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts, which achieved excellent results in 2012, given the reduced budget that this government has prescribed for the Kukuriku Coalition by cutting in the HAZU budget by depriving 5 million kuna. We can come on maybe even a little bit demagogue, that's the policy that promotes science and art and the state of knowledge, etc. So we're denying her 5 million kuna. But clearly, it should also be said that the situation is the way it is and HAZU has managed to calm down in my to say the reserves of earlier years so that somehow her budget is stable, it would be said. And it's a good thing it is. I was in my previous years with all the commendation of the work of the academy, the class and all the other forms and forms it has at the academy, perhaps the first to look for exactly what someone here said about the openness of the academy and the rejuvenation. These are the two items that I have, otherwise all the debates were such that we support the academy and we will vote in favour of the report. I think I'm one of the few people who's just been talking about the openness of the Academy to the public and about rejuvenation or rejuvenation any way you want the academy. And here we have here today and in the report mentioned 40 new members of the HAZU and when I say that if the policy is not concerned and if members of the parliamentary committees of some Assembly boards are members and the HAZU, then perhaps through these committees they can also influence the current policy, then the academy seems to have done the opposite. In fact, the current deputy minister has been elected to the academics, i.e. to the members of the co-workers, so if he is not a homonomist, he is the same name and perhaps another man named Berislav Šipus is to be specific, open, clear and loud about music art and music. I don't know when he was running. I just know he was named academic on June 12th, 2012, the day before St. Ante. Now, if the HAZU belongs to some kind of budget or by its activity precisely in the domain of culture, then it is interesting that the Deputy Minister of the Ministry of Culture has become a member of the Academy. Is it even in the conflict of interest of some, I don't know. I'm not just criticizing, I don't know I've noticed. Unless I'm saying it's a homo, so it's the same name and last name, and it's another man. The academy report itself was told by everyone here who took a word in this debate and I wouldn't repeat it. He well said Mr. Reiner that we are underusing what, both the Croatian government and Croatian society in general, what members of the academy in their works and their knowledge in their research, so in the conclusions, in their conclusions. This is not perceived or exploited. The receptivity of Croatian society, economic operators, the Croatian government is very low according to the conclusions, decisions and research of the Academy. Very, very small, almost minimal, nothing really. And he said well when a meeting came very important or interesting set either from the field of science, either a culture media presence or the presence of a note either printed or electronic is very small. There are much more interesting black and yellow chronicles in these media. Both in writing and in electronics. So you see for yourself what's going on and what all these expensive programs look like or written texts in our media. So, ink and yellow. HAZU doesn't belong to either one and that's why it's not in those media or there's two lines and nothing else. Therefore, the HDSSB club will support this report as it supported with joy and knowledge that the HAZU and in these tight financial times or lack of money still maintains its activity and is even higher compared to earlier years. So we have no reason to vote against, with joy we will vote yes, but here we have, as we have always expressed openly clear and loudly certain remarks. There, thank you, Professor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54544	Thank you, too. Five replicas. Goran Maric answered first. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54545	A colleague of Grubisic therefore accepts the report does not exclude the discussion of the occurrences to be corrected or corrected. And I support the report, of course. But if we don't want to discuss it then we don't need to talk about it, but just raise your hand and this is an opportunity to even praise it, but let's also refer to some things that should be changed. For example, you were talking about non-responsiveness. We are the whole world in 2008 and Croatia has gone into a major crisis. A meeting to be discussed on the subject was to be organised in HAZU for two years. And I don't know by what criteria the former president might have talked about. There's no criterion that can talk about it. The members of the HAZU are the intellectual elite of Croatia and I respect the majority of it. But there is no question about whether there are members who have not been checked when becoming members? Are there members who may be related to which corruption affairs in the university community at colleges? I'm not sure they don't exist, from Traffic to Economics. Why are the criteria not the same or the same in the same colleges in different cities? To finish the same college in one city and in another city it's two different worlds. I don't think we should close anyone's eyes on such phenomena, let alone the HAZU. Public TV, Croatian TV silences HAZU, but why does HAZU keep silent? That's what he's asking, and he's not. This is not in Croatia's interest. It is visible and we cannot remain silent about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54546	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54547	You used this replica to further expand the themes that were because I said we would accept but we can't glarely accept it or put a blindfold on our eyes and say it's okay and it's over. I was talking about a problem about what we don't like about a particular report, and here you have expanded the subject with which I also agree and the academy should act in this direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54548	Thank you. Next replica Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54549	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You said your colleague Grubisic was mostly involved in strategic documents. And the question of where those strategies ended, that's also a rhetorical question you asked. And the question really arises what about these strategies, what are the results of these strategies? And when we talk about that the academy should not be involved in politics, it should deal with politics, it should affect policy because obviously the strategy discussed by the academy does not come to the public and there are no implications in Croatian society or almost no other way to say any. But what politics brings has a lot of implications for the academy in the final but also for the entire Croatian society. The Croatian Parliament, the Croatian government brings strategies or does not bring them. The other day we passed the Strategic Investments Act without having previously adopted a strategy, so very interesting data. Members of the Academy participate as external members in the work of the Board of the Croatian Parliament, so they have a direct influence on politics and the adoption of strategic documents. It is therefore very important that the Croatian Academy has an impact on Croatian politics in general. I'm not talking about politicizing about the left, right center, etc. Ultra right or ultra left, etc. We are not talking about this right now, and we are talking about the fact that the need for the Croatian Academy to influence Croatian society because it is its defender of values and these values must be looked at in all the strategic documents brought by the Croatian Parliament and not looked at. And that's why I mentioned the referendum "In the Name of the Family". The Croatian Academy must have a clear view on the issue. It's a change of constitution, 700 thousand citizens demand it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54550	Thank you. We have a colleague Grubisic's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54551	My colleague Matušić, you have actually repeated all my conclusions and, again, as a colleague of Marić, extended some more topics that can be talked about and can be thought about, thought about and made certain conclusions of HAZU. The fact that we are here in the House discussing the HAZU report means that politics deals with HAZU, so we are all in politics at the end of the day. But in any case, I agree with both you and Marić and all these comments that the HAZU should monitor particularly important topics that will have far-reaching consequences for Croatian society and give its opinion. The fact that the Croatian government or someone else... won't accept it so that's how it is now. So, as Vice President Reiner said, very little reaches the votes or decisions or conclusions of the HAZU and about those topics that are daily from the HAZU to the very ears of those who may need to listen to older and smarter from the HAZU.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54552	Thank you. Next replica, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54553	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. In your discussion, you also touched on the subject of the role of the Academy or media monitoring of the Academy, and you said that it is very bad because it is not in... no chronicles or scandals and is not being monitored. In fact, the question comes down to something else, which is what is the role of science and scientific knowledge in a socio-political life at all? If the role was greater, media monitoring would be more important. Unfortunately, intellectual elites are becoming less and less involved over the years in defining political life or political and social strategies, and this is not only one or more options but it is one process that lasts but if we take the 1990s as a starting year then we will see that in the 1990s there were more academics in the Parliament and more doctors and teachers than they are now, and that these political parties were emptied from political elites like those who define development strategies. What does that mean? The consequence on the one hand is that we have 0.7% of the GDP set aside for science, and other developed countries in Europe have 5 to 7 times as much. The consequence is that we have no development strategies on anything. Why? Because as parrots, we're taking over what's on the outside of the fragments, and then we're trying to get by and find each other. We don't have our own knowledge, we don't have our own brains to rely on and that's why we can plan our own development. And in that sense, the academy is doing the most of what it can but it simply has no perception, there is no will of political will to use it and to install it into our programmes and political action.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54554	Thank you. We have a colleague Grubisic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54555	Col. Tudjman, political will is shown, although not exclusively in the fact that Croatia's Academy of Science and Arts has been reduced annual income by the state by 5 million kuna, which is almost 4% less than the year before. Intellectual elites in Croatia are known to remain silent. Croatian silence has been following us for a long time. So starting with the time from that country and it seems to be one continuity that continues. Croatian silence, silence of Croatian intellectuals, which is thus, here you can see only the doctors who strike. So how does he beat him? So he beats him so he gives him nine grand to pay a fellow specialist so you get to, then you got nothing to say. So the middle layer and intelligence should either way kill them, kill them in the term. And then... Yeah, yeah, that's politics, that's right. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Just an example to say, who do you think invented it or who designed the transport of Russian gas from Russia to Europe? Well, the Russian Academy, she made suggestions on where the South Stream would go, where it would go... So one such thing, the economics takes over the Russian Academy on itself and makes a plan and gives Putin to spend it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And he's adopting it. What has this government or any government adopted from our, conclusions of our Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts? Now let's ask all of us here. It's nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54556	Thank you. Drazen Đurovic replica, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54557	Thank you. So here's my colleague to get a little bit more attached to this part of what you've been talking about and what the academy might still be doing. For example, five HAZU scientific assemblies were held on Slavonia and Baranja, i.e. the JAZU, in the 1970s. The year in Osijek in '71. in Slavonic ship, '83. in Vukovar, '84. in Osijek and in '87. in Vinkovci, in cooperation with the then community of Osijek under the auspices of JAZU. Since the Croatian state has not tried to organise, for example, a scientific symposium on this region and the problem of the region. The problems of other regions in the co-operation of the local community and the HAZU may be held. So here's the clue to this as one of the models I'm sure of, here's the esteemed secretary of HAZU that, for example, the Osijek-Baranja County and those who run it, would certainly find a very grateful partner to organise one such, one such scientific forum. And which is much needed, for example, today's poorest region of Slavonia and Baranja, which faces strategic problems and does not find the right answers in which to develop further, how you use resources and in which direction to further build the future over the next 10 years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54558	Thank you. Comrade Grubisic, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54559	A colleague of Đurović's in this summer paper of the Croatian Academy, the book 116 has papers, members of the Academy that talk about Slavonia. But it seems to me that first of all they're talking about Slavonia's history. Like what? We are working on the role of Franciscans in the organization, the social organization of Slavonia in Turkish times. So on the role of Fr. Luka Ibrimovic in Požega during the uprising and release of Slavonia from the Turks. Well then we have Slavonia in Turkish times and such other concepts. However, what led Slavonia in the new era, in the time of the free, democratic, independent, of the Croatian state, to, to say, the tail of events, the last in office or the role of the last wagon in Croatia composition, so the last car, as they say about the smokers in Germany, is not a word about it. And it would work out here I saw that Professor Rudan wrote and I believe that this kind of good idea that you suggested might be organized in Osijek, a gathering on the state and role of Slavonia in Croatia and the future of Slavonia. And Baranja and Srema. In Croatia clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54560	Thank you. And the last replica of Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54561	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Grubisic, two of your claims prompted me on the line. One is that I got into Croatian TV, I didn't get into Croatian TV, you know I don't get into anyone. So I just said some of my remarks about it and the way I follow HAZU's work. What moved me, however, is that you said that it would be good for the government to listen to its national academy, so you illustrated it with several examples. I couldn't agree more with you. But the problem with this government is that it doesn't listen to anyone, doesn't listen to its own people, doesn't listen to the opposition and where they're going to listen to some kind of academy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54562	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54563	Yeah, my colleague Reiner, you said state television ironically, and she likes to be called public, so I just said it again. With that irony actually going for both me and you, I think you'd say, we're here with the same, the same attitudes about it. And I think it would be time for Croatian television, or for HAZU to open somewhat Croatian television, so that at least once a week or once a month we have a report on the work of HAZU, on all meetings, seminars, published books, everything the HAZU did that month. I don't think the academics would mind because they don't hide their work, they betray and cite them both in this yearbook and in public. Therefore, the public might be encouraged to understand that I say not only more seriously but also that this HAZU exists and works for the benefit of the Croatian people. And as for the government's not listening to anyone, so they ripped off both the stake and the manger, everything dragged it all away doesn't make any sense anymore.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54564	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Dunja Špoljar, here you go, comrades.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54565	Thank you, Vice President. Dear academics, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. The HAZU's work release presented in this report is impressive. I can't thank you enough for that. Not long ago we discussed reports for earlier years and in the meantime the leadership of the HAZU changed, the roads of transparency of the Academy's work were opened. But to change the picture fully in public, it will take extra time and extra effort. The main objection to the public is particularly intellectual, as has already been said several times today, to the activities of HAZU simply says HAZU is silent, while at the same time very loud public findings of HAZU have addressed Croatian society only several times. Nothing is done to overcome the alienation of scientific, artistic and other elites from the people. In 2012, the academy did not give solutions that would sound ideal in public, they were not rapid in particularly critical and revolutionary statements. They did not even hypnotize the activity, they were guided by the principles of work, order, discipline and self-discipline, patient and self-secure work and keeping order in all segments. They were trying to highlight social problems. HAZU is a socially responsible, serious institution and cannot give any flat-rate statements but scientific solutions that are often not attractive, explained HAZU President Kousic. But it is the task of intellectuals to promote change, and at that the members of the academy must endure. HAZU must completely change the picture that it is its own purpose. A special emphasis should be placed on working with young and young people. The 2011 debate report in this House warned of insufficient numbers of academics, i.e. disproportionate numbers of men and women in the academy. After that, in 2012 a woman was elected to regular members of the Academy and none of them were elected to the correspondence members. Also, the impression of non-transparentity contributes to the lack of full information on the management of property owned by the Academy. What is or what the HAZU will do with a wasteful building of a student polyclinic in Fascism Victims Square is unknown. It is only known that the academy owns the building in which the student polyclinics operated, and that the contract on the lease of business space between the HAZU and the home of health expired at the end of 2011. The academy has decided not to extend the lease. It is also known that doctors, as well as students, did not like this decision at all. In 2012 the dispute continues between HAZU and Ruđer Boskovic Institute on the real estate of the research centre for the sea. However, the HAZU acts in the long term, sometimes there is a discrepancy with politics but the academy promotes strategy and vision as shown in this report, so its solutions can be in the way of day - to - day politics. Isn't that exactly her basic task, to be corrective to social events? In that light, I support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54566	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54567	Risking not being misunderstood or misunderstood by my colleagues, this is about women's quotas and so on. Well, I can't understand some things and I don't really want to understand. Not that I can't, I don't want to understand. Now we want to make this logical, how many Nobel larceny women, how many men, that's your logic. Well, I guess the academy goes to the expense of what someone did, so I want to believe it. If you think you should have sex okay, then we're still gonna have to be 10% 30-year-olds, it's gotta be 80-year-olds. I don't know what fair division... the academy is. It's got to be the doctor, too, and I want to be down there, because it needs to be 10%, they're the smartest. I guess it's due to someone doing something. If that's not the case, then it's not a good academy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54568	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Spoliar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54569	Dear colleague, you don't need it and you don't have to understand it, but you can perceive the fact that there are currently more highly educated women in Croatia than highly educated men. Following that, and access to the academy would have to be in that direction, and it's not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54570	Thank you. And next up for discussion, colleague Joseph Kregar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54571	Dear Vice President, Secretary of the Academy, ladies and gentlemen. The Academy's credibility is based on what it's looking for. It is adapted both in its functions and in its organization. It's not made by superhumans, it's not by those who know everything, it's by classes by the best in certain scientific disciplines. The Academy does not have an invitation to talk about everything and everything and appear at every opportunity but when it believes that it advocates and knows something that is inexplicable truth, not the current political circumstance or inclination, not something that most thinks at this time, and perhaps only a large minority will think for a while. The Academy is somehow a symbol of knowledge and science in this society. She is not just another university, school, home of culture or kindergarten. That's why her internal principles are different, her calling, purpose is noble and not functional. The criticism of what you say is that you say shut up about the academy is actually more of a result for me of a climate of society that is collapsing in many ways, and also of anti-intellectualism as Mr. Tudjman said. The Academy is tasked with designing the future and acting, but not reacting at every opportunity and place. I've heard here that strategies are not being adopted, that there's no discussion at the Academy about it and that's where the whole story stops. Let me defuse you. I participated in six different discussions and activities of the Academy on strategies for three different governments. At the promotions of these strategies was Prime Minister Ivo Sanader, once Jadranka Kosor, twice, and the last one was Orsat Milenic, the justice minister. All these strategies were a proposal for political decisions and actions by the Parliament. The academy showed itself here because it defended knowledge, profession, and neutrality. That's why she could speak so loudly. Let me have some more stuff. It is mentioned that the Academy did not participate in discussions on the rating of Bologna. I'm sure that's not true. I myself participated in 7 meetings at the Academy dedicated to the issue from which 2 even had a fair media echo, and that there were criticisms, and there was criticism throughout the period from the beginning of the reform to its infamous end. And in that academy, I think they deserve every respect for doing that job that other institutions didn't dare to do, not even the university. The Academy was indeed a scientific institution on the defender of truth and academic freedoms. There's something that's in this economy... The law of bad money. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Bad money says the sinner is pushing out good money. It's about the institution. Many institutions wish to become more popular, bigger, to get more funds have left many of their original gold rules and principles. The academy didn't do it. And therefore, it is no wonder that it compares itself with those who are much worse, that one breath of bureaucratic request to the Academy regarding the submission of the report, in terms of participation. I think Mr Rudan may be pleased because here it is a very minority opinion, and representatives of various benches in this hall have supported the report and your basic position and mission. What I want to actually praise this report is the fact that not only with the scope, but primarily with the content, authority and importance of the Academy in the Croatian public, the Academy meets the excellent expectations that exist for it. Our expectations are greater and greater than possible because the situation is this, because there are no other institutions but we can't think that the academy will replace political forums or parliament and say something better and wiser about politics at the moment. He won't. And let me finish. What the Academy will claim will not often have a direct effect. But believe me, I was involved in some of the bodies of the Academy 20 years ago. It is only now, today and with great approval and all the lines of these benches that we then heard for the first time came in the form of political will and action independent of the courts, for example, the responsibility of the courts was the subject of such debates, the action of the State Judiciary Council and so on. All these ideas came from the Academy, and it took a long time for fermentation to make them an integral part of thinking. Only the Academy will retain such a role, such an authority only when it deals with the truth, not politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54572	Thank you. We have two replicas. Dujomir Marasovic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54573	Dear Mr. President of the Parliament, colleague Craiger. Here's a little bit of you, little I think you've gone too far in your praises. I understand this conversation here more as a conversation about the perception of the Croatian public than the Academy, not the content of what it does there. People do what they're supposed to do in their job description, and that's why they came for some credit for what they did. You see Pope Francis modernised the Church. They used to carry the Pope around the Vatican on those stretchers, so then the Pope's mobile, and now he's on the bus. That's how it animated the world's public. I think the Academy must take a look at the church if you want Pope Francis, etc. They cannot remain a world outside the Croatian Corps. I want to say they must be present in Croatian spiritual space with their presence, if you will... in that public or statement to that public. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Because otherwise, half-written journalists impose on the system of values. They create a Croatian intellectual and some kind of consciousness, and then I'm not surprised about the Academy. That's the problem, that's our problem. The intellectuals used to play what Vlado Gotovac said, what the river was, and now we read what a journalist said that he pushed into some kind of library society and still paid for by the boss this or that, now he's on top of the language that everyone has censorship. I speak for every political option, each one speaks for his own political option, and we look at them. What does the academy think? We don't know. So did they hold any meetings there? But we don't know. That's the problem. For me, it's a problem, so much so that it wouldn't be very good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54574	Thank you. Answer, colleague Craiger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54575	I appreciate the mildness and well-meaning in your intervention, but we differ in our basic attitude. I think the demands that exist towards the academy are largely due to the high expectations that someone will do something. And then, of course, it points to the academy because it's a symbol of the neutrality of supremacy and intelligence, of enlightenment. However, this cannot mean that the academy will improve or that the report will be better if they start to deal with a better PR and better public stage performance. I'm worried that one day, I don't know the truth at what level of the academy, will conclude that our football selector isn't good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54576	And the last replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54577	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I agree with most of what's a respected professor. The Cregar said, and actually I answered primarily encouraged by his mention of the money again. And I think we need to talk about it because we're the ones who accept the budget. I'll go back to the story of money and the story of the budget that's ahead of us in about a month or how long we'll be able to decide whether all these nice words we said or not I don't know the remarks we said will have any reflection on how the academy will be financed. Speaking of money and yet related to some current balloons that are being released to the public who are rarely preparing the public for some sometimes ugly moves of stories about privileged pensions that we usually associate with other things I just want to tell everyone as clearly as many academics are retired and thanks to privileged pensions they have as much decent financial status. Therefore, we also make sure that if it comes before us about privileged pensions that privileged pensions are not just some fictitious people who have not earned them, they are academics. So when we're gonna have to decide that, we're thinking a little bit about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54578	Thank you. Answer, colleague Craiger. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54579	I hope you understand the pathos in my words because here it seems to me to be a certain psychological situation or the atmosphere of criticism, so who knows what will come next, perhaps financial restrictions. But in this respect, I agree with you, the political will is not tested in good words, but whether enough funds and opportunities are given to the institution to accomplish its task. Therefore, the restrictions and better control of the spending of funds as Mrs. Spoljar pointed out, I think they are necessarily connected. I'm more of a asset and better of control.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54580	Thank you. This is what we've exhausted the list of people reported. Finally on behalf of the promoter, here you go, Mr. Rudan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54581	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, what to say after this almost an hour of beautiful conversation in the Croatian Parliament? Believe me, I share the opinion of many members of the HAZU who have been watching us all afternoon because they are finally aware that there are people sitting in this House who are rationally, wisely, seriously considering certain problems with which the entire society and, as well as the academy are in extreme conflict, facing and trying to find a solution. I am particularly pleased, and I thank all those who participated in the debate for raising many questions. This report was the 2012 report, not the 2013 work result. You will see next year what will be in 2013. That's why I'm saying this because a respected colleague from Osijek-Baranja, Srijem and Eastern Slavonia has actually asked me to tell you that since the summer in Osijek and Vinkovci and in the related areas of that part of our country, several very important meetings have been held in relation to the problems of agriculture, dedicated to the problems of forestry, dedicated to the problems of demographicism, etc. So we take very good care of everything that has been said here. As for women, I have to tell you when I founded the Institute of Anthropology 23 years ago and I was 19 years old his principal that there were about 80% of women and 20% of men in that institute. As far as our academy is concerned, the situation is different. But the situation is far better than in the Royal Society means the British Academy of Royal Society where out of 1350 regular members there are only 86 women, which means 6.37%. And given what my esteemed colleague and former student Duje Marasovic said and I was chasing him in anatomy there at the end of the '60s, he said he needed to be seen as Holy Father Franjo. Watch out, National Academy... which is one of the oldest academys in Europe of 204 regular members has only 6 women. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So 2.94%. Our academy has more women than the French Academy, than the Austrian Academy and even more Dutch Academy, which really surprises me because of 141 today's member of the HAZU chosen as regular members, there are 15 regular members, which means 11%. So I'm actually proud that our academy, given the representation of women, is better than Italy, both than France, and Slovenia, and Austria and the Netherlands, I think that's enough. I expect that far more excellent members of the HAZU will be after the next elections, I also expect the scientific institutions to propose those who are top-notch in their fields. As for the Ruđer Boskovic Institute, I must say that this administration inherited the problem with the Ruđer Boskovice Institute, inherited the problem with the Rovinj Research Institute, etc. and I am honored to inform you that this academy administration with this administration of the Ruđer Boskovic Institute has come to the conclusion that the agreement between HAZU and Ruđer Boskovic Institute will be signed tomorrow at 10 o'clock in the presence of Minister Jovanovic and that the problem has been solved. As far as Fascism Victims Square and those 7,000 squares, we spend terrible money every month to keep the heating system, water, electricity, noise waste, etc. in place. for several years, and for two years we have been intensively offering this property to the Croatian government and all interested people to take it and put it into office. We give it because we can't alienate but we give it a long term of 30, 40 years to rent and put it into service but unfortunately we don't have anyone to help us here in any way. All the things you've said I fully accept, everything you've said, and given the television, I fully accept and I'm glad that we've somehow come up with certain solutions. Suggestion, I thank you all very much for this because I think this debate was intellectually intriguing, and a stimulating debate and that we will contribute to the concept synthesis. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54582	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. Dunja Spoljar. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54583	Dear academics, we congratulate in front of women on this good placement of women in HAZU and we are really proud that all of these listed countries are ahead or ahead of all countries, but we still expect it to be HAZU that will encourage and be a powerful motivator for all scientific institutions across our country to run and encourage women to become members of the HAZU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54584	Thank you. And the last replica Goran Maric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54585	Thank you very much. Academic Rudan, I thank you for your final statement because you have shown satisfaction with this debate and have noticed that our remarks have been well-intentioned. We don't criticise you for criticizing you, but because we appreciate the academy, we respect your work and we want and we cry for your voice, that's why we're saying it. We cry for your voice when politics works badly no matter which one. You are expected to react to something that will be long-term harmful and irreparable. It is nice to hear the voice of whether, for example, a sufficient number or too many higher education institutions in Croatia, it is still serious nobody deals with it. Did the expert studies pass the test or not? That's the kind of thing we want to hear about your institution's voice. Mr Tudjman said that the smartness of imports, imagine only at the consultations of three privatisations in Croatia Croatian state pays out of the budget 220 million kuna to foreign advisers. If Clean Start can do the Economic Institute, how come HAZU does these things? Not that he can't, he can do it 10 times as cheap and 10 times cheaper and for Croatia's sake, unlike these others. But we appreciate foreign intelligence more than domestic and there's a problem, and 220 million kunas cost only counseling how to privatize something a privateer would never pay anyone if he owned what we pay for counseling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54586	Thank you. Here's your academic answer. Would you like to answer that? I'm closing the debate. [[Intruder: Thank you very much for everything.]] I thank the academic Rudan. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54587	Let's go to the next one. Report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2012. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts for 2012. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 115 votes in favour and 1 abstentions have been accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54588	We continue with: - Report on the work of the National Sports Council for 2012 The report was submitted by the National Sports Council pursuant to Article 4. Sports law. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The discussion was conducted by the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports. Is it on behalf of the proposer? With us is National Council President Danira Bilić with a co-worker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54589	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. The establishment and structure of the National Sports Council is scheduled for the first time in Croatia by the Law on Sports in 2006, and was founded in mid-2010. The National Sports Council, as you know, has a president, 12 members appointed and resolved by the Croatian Parliament. The Council is designed as the most professional and advisory body of Croatian sport, which has a primary role to set priorities and guidelines for national sport development policy. Also a larger number, as you know, of European countries has a similar body with a similar name or same name and with similar or similar tasks. Since there is no tradition of the work of a similar body in the Republic of Croatia as before in the former state of the National Sports Council has been coming and still encountering misunderstandings in its work. On the one hand, the wider sports community sees us as a political body that should control sport and on the other, state policy does not see us as a body that should be left to create a policy of strategic and long-term development of sports in our country. In this is probably part of the reason for not understanding the roles and tasks and I would say part of the untapped potential available to the National Sports Council. Since the beginning of the Croatian state, neither the sports community nor the state policy have adopted a strategic document that would regulate sport as a whole. This leaves the long-term development of sports with improvisations stemming from the current and short-term interests of certain sports factors. The state has always stopped at the adoption of the Sport Act, thinking it regulates sports development policy. While the sports community has always been focused on solving the current problems without the possibility and need to adopt long-term guidelines for the development of this area. We at the National Sports Council are aware of this problem and in our work so far we encouraged its resolution. During 2010, we adopted two important strategic documents, basic principles and guidelines for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia, as well as the study of trainers and professional jobs in Croatian sport. And in 2012 we continued to produce analytical and strategic documents, and the Council's proposal produced the first full study on sports financing in the Republic of Croatia called Funding of Sports in the Republic of Croatia with a comparative display of sports financing in the European Union, which I will say a little more later. We wanted to make assumptions about the development of a long-term strategy and the national sport development programme. However, there are still a number of questions to be found and answered when we talk about the possibilities of strategic thinking, the future of Croatian sport. For example, at this time no one in the Croatian sport system, nor the Ministry, nor the Croatian Olympic Committee, nor the National Sports Alliance have information about how many sports facilities we have in Croatia. How many closed down, how many open sports facilities, how many, not to mention the state they're in, what their usability is, what their profitability is, what their ownership structure is, what it's like. Moreover, just in the aforementioned study of sports financing, because a large number of units of local and regional self-government responded that it does not have an assessment of the value of its sports facilities and a significant number of them did not have any data on the ownership of the facilities and their assessment was left out of the analysis of sport financing. This is certainly an area where you really need to work especially because sports infrastructure is a basic prerequisite for performing sports activities and, as you know, capital investment in sports infrastructure is a significant part of total investment in sports from public sources. Furthermore, no one knows exactly how many people are really involved in sports, how many young athletes are, exactly how many sports clubs are, etc. Because from existing databases it's because of their inequality but also incoherence hard to determine. For example, register of associations, register of sports activities, register of non-profit organisations, data you can find on the Croatian Olympic Committee pages. And if you compare them, you will see how unequal your data is. For example, if you look at the number of sports associations. The data on sponsors also do not exist but there is no precise data to be obtained, so it is difficult to determine how many sponsors, i.e. sponsors, are therefore in the field of sport, while the number of viewers can only be assessed. Furthermore, very little information is available on the state of sports recreation in the Republic of Croatia, on the state of health of athletes and other important issues. Otherwise, in the aforementioned study, the financing of sports in the Republic of Croatia as one of the biggest problems highlighted the lack of reliable and comparable statistics, which points to the necessity of systematic collection of qualitative and quantitative indicators that would allow one quality analysis of the state of sport in the Republic of Croatia and, of course, a reliable comparison with other countries in the European Union. And exactly in line with all the above, we have launched perhaps the most important thing for the future of Croatian sport, which is to create a number of studies that should answer these and other key questions for the future of sport development in the Republic of Croatia. And that process must not be stopped. It is therefore necessary to ensure the conditions for further study of analytical research to help us find answers to these open questions. In early 2012, the National Council adopted a financial plan and programme for 2012. So we predicted most of it, for most of it, the amount of funding, the production of 7 project studies. Unfortunately, the budget did not provide the funds, so there was no realisation of them. So other than the sport funding study already mentioned. With regard to the above and to the basis of the State budget adopted for 2012 and the view that it is less important whether the financial resources are on the items of the National Council for Sports or the items of the Ministry, the Council adopted a conclusion supporting the direction of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports in terms of the speedy resolution of the problem in sport and considers it necessary to continue making project documents as strategic basis for the development of the National Sport Programme, and with the aim of therefore one thought-out long-term development of sports, and we have proposed the development of two priority studies in line with the financial opportunities. One is a project study related to sports infrastructure, and another is a project study related to the design of sports and sports legislation. In 2012, the Council also encouraged the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to speed up the work of the proposed studies and to initiate the process of producing the National Sport Programme, whose development is in the responsibility of the Ministry. The excellent basis for the preparation of the National Sport Programme is, in addition to the previous two project studies, this mentioned study, which was made in 2012, the financing of sports in the Republic of Croatia with a comparative display of the financing of sports in the European Union, which was commissioned by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports at the proposal of the National Council and produced by the Institute of Public Finance. Sport funding is of great national importance because it conditiones the quality, massity, attractiveness of the programme, availability of sports infrastructure, education of professional staff and, of course, affects the result of athletes as the best Croatian ambassadors, which was confirmed at the last Olympic games in London. It is the first comprehensive study on the financing of sports at national level, and in 11 chapters including conclusions and recommendations lists the analysis of the information on the financial reporting system, the possibilities for financial management, ways, sources and structure of the source of funding of sports, taxes in the sport system and numerous other important parameters in the activity of sport. In particular, the study discussed chapters on the management of sport and the funding system, which analysed and presented in one place a normative framework, which highlighted the numerous shortcomings and failures of the system, and then public needs programmes in sport at national and local level with open issues of the competence of monitoring records. In the Council, we believe that the study is an excellent basis on the one hand for the current action in the sport system by taking immediate concrete measures that are easy to read from the study, which would therefore contribute to establishing a better quality system of sport, and on the other hand as an excellent basis for making what we have been waiting for for many years, which is the creation of a strategic document of long-term development of sport, in this case the Strategy and the National Sport Programme. The study also implies the need to further deepen the analysis of certain segments of sport financing, but in the opinion of the council and the need to complement the economic impact of sports in society. Although the data on the basis of a project study on Croatian sport financing are not final and complete, they still allow for the best presentation and analysis of the sport funding system in Croatia's sports system. Furthermore, in accordance with Article 3(3) of the basic Regulation, the Commission considers that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, The Law on Sports of the Council gave its opinion and recommendations on all draft rules relating to sports, which are addressed to the Council within the time limit set. In the materials that you have received in addition to the National Council report you have all our recommendations, conclusions and opinions, as well as other memos. I'll just point out some. The Council gave an opinion on the draft amendments and additions to the Sport Act at all points of the amendment. Most of the National Council's proposals were adopted by the competent ministry, and the smaller part was not. For example. to adopt new deadlines for drawing up the National Programme of Sports, as well as for any sublegal implementing acts resulting from that law and whose deadlines have passed. Therefore, we felt it would be good for them to be redefined and to set new deadlines if they remained in the Sport Act. Furthermore, the Council gave an opinion on a draft proposal for a law on sports inspection and, despite the fact that even the existing legal rules allow for administrative inspection of the work in the field of sport through laws such as the Law on Associations, the Law on Sports, the General Administrative Procedure Act, the Law on Commercial Society. But aware that the application of existing legislation has not been shown to be effective in the practice of the Council considers that the Law on Sports Inspection is a step forward in further regulation of the sport system. However, it should be kept in mind that in Article 2(2) The law on sports inspection states that the inspection is carried out by inspection of the implementation of the Law on Sports and Regulations adopted on the basis of it, and that, as I have already said before, a large number of sublegal implementing acts have not yet been adopted. I'll give you an example. For example, the Sport Act is not prescribed any specific technical or health conditions for the performance of sport activities, and in Article 9. The law on sports inspection shall be laid down, and in the same article in paragraph 12, it shall control whether persons participating in sports competitions have the appropriate medical ability established by an authorised doctor in accordance with the law and other regulations. Therefore, the Sport Act provides for the adoption of a Regulation on the conditions for performing health checks and provides for the adoption of a list of authorised doctors. However, these rules have not been adopted, so you understand what it means, therefore, in the work of the sport inspection itself. Furthermore, what may be relevant because we are talking about the 2012 report, and we are already before the end of 2013, but just the sports inspection has also addressed the National Sports Council because there is another problem in its work, and the problem stems from the lack of a rule on the necessary professional preparation or training to carry out professional activities in sport according to the kind of complexity of jobs. Therefore, due to the lack of more detailed work-exploitation or control-related professional training, professional inspection or sports inspection is faced with certain problems in its work. So, in 2012, as I said, the Law on Sports Inspection was passed, and I believe that sports inspectors will soon begin to remove a series of irregularities in sport they no doubt have. But I say meet and face problems in doing their jobs because simply because of the fact that a number of sublegal acts have not yet been passed. The Council further recommended the decisions on the elements and criteria for the selection of candidates for enrolment in the school year 2012/2013. in the part of the decision concerning the evaluation of the results achieved in the sport competitions. The Council also gave full support to the project "Sports and Education 2012/2016" which continued the project of categorised athletes in the system of education for which the National Council has developed a proposal for measures and activities to meet better conditions for young athletes and which has referred to competent sports and education authorities at national level in order to truly create adequate conditions for young potential top athletes to be able to follow their sport and academic career in parallel. The Council also regularly gives its legal commitment expert opinions on training programmes for professional work in sport. Furthermore, aware of the importance of professional or strategic positioning of sports in documents for the use of EU funds at national level, and aware of the fact that sport does not exist in the current Council measures has proposed to the competent ministry that it take all necessary steps to strategically position sports in the National Strategy 2014/20 as soon as possible. and operational programmes, and to ensure that these operational programmes provide for measures to enable the use of European Union funds for sports facilities in the area of construction, reconstruction, reconstruction of sport infrastructure and human resources in the sports sector, in a way that is explicitly referred to as areas in the name of the measure. The Council also proposed that all relevant sports authorities from the non-governmental sector be involved in the drafting of the proposal. On this occasion, we also called on the competent ministry to provide the necessary resources to develop the national sport programme and the analytical study of the state of sports infrastructure at national level, which would provide an adequate basis for precisely this strategic positioning of sports and its infrastructure in the national strategy, i.e. in this national framework, which will be the main basis for applying to EU funds. I note that the National Sports Council also consciously proposed that a single obligation be made to local and regional self-government to develop a proposal for a network of sports facilities, as well as to run a registration of sports facilities. And in that case, the competent ministry would, following their proposals, give its final opinion and consent to the network. Currently, the law states that the ministry brings a network without any obligation to units of local and regional self-government. Since this is a document that is indeed here and in light of the need to attract funds from EU funds, it would be good indeed if this network were actually brought forward as quickly as possible. It's final. I think it is extremely important that there is also one quality cooperation and mutual communication between the competent ministry and other bodies of the state administration of the Ministry of Finance, Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, Ministry of Civil Engineering, spatial arrangements and others as well as units of local, regional self-government, academic community and, of course, the entire system of sport in the Republic of Croatia led by the Croatian Olympic Committee, the Croatian Paralympic Committee, the Croatian Sports Alliance of the Deaf and the horizontal and vertical level and, of course, in cooperation with the National Sports Council whose structure, membership therefore includes representatives of most of those institutions and sports bodies. Such cooperation should result in the importance and contribution of sport to the social and economic development of the state and local community being adequately recognised and represented in the strategic documents of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54590	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. First came from colleague Marija Lugaric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54591	Thank you, Mrs. Bilic. There's one thing I'm curious about, so from your exposure. You mentioned that one of the incentives made by the National Sports Council was also the creation of a Sports Financing Study. This study is not as wrongly as it says in the report that you submitted to us in writing by the Ministry of Science and Sports, but by the Institute of Public Finance. You spoke of him as to what the report contains in short writing. In this very Report of the National Council of 12 pages of the report, one is dedicated to the content of the report. However, I am interested and that is what I think is important what the opinion of the National Sports Council on the study is. Because what I think is somewhere is the point of what the National Council should actually be doing as the most professional and advisory body. We benefit, neither we nor the sport policy at the end have anything to order studies, to convince the documents that they contain, who did them, how they're complex. Finally, we have no use to finance them unless they follow concrete recommendations from one side of you as the highest expert and advisory body in politics, then no specific reaction. And it's something I have to admit that saddens me that it's not in the report or that's what you said in your oral presentation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54592	Thank you. You're responding to the replica from the scene, to the replica. It's just a microphone. It's customary to stand up when you answer. Hit the microphone. Here you go. No, no, no. Now it's on. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54593	All right, thank you very much. So the report is drawn up by... how the Ministry draws up reports, i.e. the Ministry's professional service. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, with the reports as I have pointed out in my presentation, therefore, all the opinions, conclusions and recommendations made by the National Sports Council are in addition to that, so that representatives can therefore see what kind of opinion and recommendations the National Council has made on certain issues. In my discussion, I also stressed the position of the National Sports Council on the study itself because of the importance of the study, so I will just repeat it, so the Council really believes that this study is a certain basis for action on one side immediately with a series of concrete measures that are easy to read from the study. So what is this, what are the concrete measures, and we're going to say something more about this at our theme session that is planned next month, on the one hand. On the other hand, it is also an excellent basis for the creation of a National Sport Programme that simply because of not only future development, one long-term thought-out development of sports is necessary and important, as I just said earlier is extremely important and as a basis for obtaining funds from EU funds. In order to be able to apply to certain projects at all, there should be indications of specific projects in certain strategic documents. However, I also stressed that this study that the National Council has made one recommendation to supplement this study because it does not contain the part in which it can see the economic effects of sport on society. So what are the positive economic effects that are in this two-way relationship that sport has with society in this study is not visible until the end. So we made one recommendation that the study should be upgraded in that sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54594	Thank you. Next replica, Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54595	Thank you very much. In fact, we are all looking forward to the sports results of our team, etc., but we will look even more forward to the results when we withdraw funds from the EU. But I want to emphasize and replicate to you, namely you're saying that the ministry has to bring the network. So you already have regional operational programmes based on regions that have already been developed and where priorities are known, but certainly it is necessary and for the resolution ministry to adopt a strategy and you to give an opinion on what these are specific projects and what strategic sports facilities are needed at the level of the region to be able to apply, and then provide that part of the participation that is important by the unit of the local and regional administration of the Resord Ministry in order to close the financial structure. So, we have deadlines, we have strategies, but there has to be a national strategy in order to pull the funding right out of the sports infrastructure. And we think that we should start from the earliest age because our children need to learn how to swim and they need to learn the column back and forth, and then we can talk about professional sports that is important, but also how to finance sports, and then sports infrastructures especially from EU funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54596	Thank you. Here you go, answer me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54597	Thank you very much. ... [[Speakers off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54598	A microphone, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54599	Thank you very much. So we're really on the same track as thinking about not only the importance of the network but also the way it's brought. In fact, what the Sports Act is currently writing is that the competent ministry is bringing in a network. What the National Council proposed in order to really, because the network, the adoption of the network, has therefore already been prescribed by the Sport Act in 2006 and has not been adopted so far. It is precisely with the aim of bringing this network in as soon as possible to the National Council that the law prescribes that units of local self-government which are logical and what is normal because they are overweight and owners of these sports buildings to bring networks at their regional, or local level, to propose it as such and to propose it to the competent ministry which gives consent that this is a path that could indeed, in time, get a network. The network, of course, is important for everything you said, which I said before, as a basis and later not only for applying to EU funds but also to define clearly what we have in the Sports Development Strategy, by which standards and norms we meet the needs of citizens and what it is, how many sports facilities we need and in which time we will realize it. But for that, we should have that basic input, that basic information, which is what we currently have at national level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54600	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54601	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, President of the Council, colleagues and colleagues. With the aim of sustainable development of the sport system in the Republic of Croatia, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports should be developed a strategy for sports development and the National Sport Programme. In order for them to be developed, they are needed as a basis for strategic studies, i.e. project studies related to the financing of sports with sport infrastructure, with regard to the organisation of sports and sports legislation, and are less important neither to studies in the health care of athletes and related to women with sport. For the production of these studies, the estimated funds of one million and 800 thousand kuna were not found in the State budget for 2012, so the National Sports Council could only express its regret that there are no financial resources and give full support to the ministry to address the accumulated problems in the field of sport as quickly as possible. The National Sports Council, although composed of prominent former athletes, has no great authority but only gives opinions and suggestions on the draft laws relating to sport. Thus, in 2012 the Resort Ministry disobeyed the opinion of the National Council on the criteria for selecting candidates for enrolment in the high school in 2012 and 2013 in the school year where the achievement of the results can result in the categorization of athletes from 1st to 6th category. It is unlikely that children aged 14 and 15 can get that status and category for which it is necessary to perform at the Olympic Games or World Cup. Although the National Council delivered its opinion on the problem in 2011, and this also repeated in 2012 the resolution ministry did not accept their opinion for a year. The Ministry of Science, Education and Sports also did not accept the published studies and publication of the study "The Fundamental Principles and Guidelines for the Development of Sports in the Republic of Croatia" by this National Council, which this Assembly was also familiar with in the 2011 report. When amending the Sport Act, too, because there has been a disagreement between the two sports institutions on the definition of whether the National Council is the most professional and advisory body or how the Ministry proposes that the Council is no longer a professional but merely an advisory body. All of this raises the question of the purpose of the existence and role of the National Council when the ministry does not respect the Council's opinion in any law or amendment. I guess that's why they took their expertise away from them, and they left them with the counseling. According to the composition of the National Council, the expertise of quality individuals in various sports they have engaged in and achieved excellent results that are not recognised by the amendments to the Sport Act. I'm not sure anyone from the ministry would better lead a water polo team than Ratko Rudic. This report shows the support of members of the National Council for the award of state recognition for a special contribution to the reputation of the Republic of Croatia, which in the 45th year of life is granted to all but the conquerors in non-Olympic sports. Support is given to the ministry's proposal that only medals won at the Olympic Games are a great honour for the country, and those in neo-Olympic sports are not worth mentioning. I am surprised that the National Council did not protect its fellow athletes who won gold medals and world champion titles in neo-Olympic sports such as Nikola Dragaš, Biserka Perman, Željke Orehovec and others who invested in them many sweats, skills and love. Maybe because there are no members from such sports in the National Council. The ministry's explanation is that these are awards for world-wide achievements in the most competitive disciplines and that there are no elements of discrimination there because they say they are sports that are not engaged in the whole world and that these medals do not deserve an assessment of sports excellence. And we, like bowling and crinkling, also have high-quality sports and a lot of world successes. Given Croatia's recent entry into the EU, it is good that the National Council reminded the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports of the strategic positioning of sports in the National Strategy 2014-2020, which would provide for measures and ensure the possibility of using EU funds to build sports facilities and reconstruct sport infrastructure. The Council once again called on the resolution ministry to provide the necessary funding for the development of a national sport programme. Although we talked about sports infrastructure in 2011 and in 2012 the problem did not start from a dead end. We don't know anything today about the number of sports facilities and their ownership structure. In this year, I expect the National Council, Ministry and the Croatian Olympic Committee to agree on who will send a letter to local units because they are mainly the owners of sports facilities and who will make the registration of sports facilities. It seems that in the Republic of Croatia the biggest problem is to make a list of state assets and sports facilities, which is what companies call inventory. Obliged to all businesses or how we see not for the state. In addition, there is no training programme for professional staff in Croatia, and without profession, there is no future for Croatian sport in particular in working with young people. Since the National Council is at least doing a lot of work according to this report, it is proposing and giving its opinions all in accordance with its powers under the Law on Sports, the HSU Club will support this report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54602	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Ante Kulušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54603	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam President of the National Council, colleagues and colleagues. I express my first regret that the 2012 National Sports Council report comes in line for the debate at the end of 2013 and so we turn out to be at least ridiculous discussing the facts that have changed in the meantime. In his report, the Council said, among other things, that while respecting the great successes of Croatian athletes in international competitions and the great role of sports in Croatian society, it considers it necessary to draw up lenses, precise, complete indicators of the current state of Croatian sport. The Council in the report points to the need to develop a national strategy for sport and a national programme for development of sports in the Republic of Croatia, which would strategically position sport, which is also the basis for the use of EU funds. Despite promises from the resolution ministry, the national strategy has not yet been completed, although we remind it from the resolution ministry whether it will be completed by this year. According to the report, the Council pointed out the need to develop a series of project studies that would allow for a clearer definition of the current situation in the sport system in all its segments, and would be a valuable basis for the development of key strategic objectives and eight-year national sport programme to identify the objectives and tasks of the development of sport, the activities necessary for the implementation of these objectives, and the development vehicle and the control measures for their implementation. Three analytical and project studies have been developed on the basis of the National Sports Council's proposal and guidelines for the development of sports in Croatia, the Coaches and professional jobs in Croatian sport in 2011, as well as the financing of sports in the Republic of Croatia with a comparative display of sports financing in the European Union in 2012. This latter we have already received along with other materials in addition to this Report and already the very view of the conclusions, studies show how much positive shifts in terms of regulating the system of financing sport and its control can be made immediately and clearly shows where Croatia is in relation to some other Member States of the European Union in terms of structure, sources of revenues in the field of sport and where we have the most room for positive shifts. Studies also clearly point out the problem of lack of reliable and comparable statistics that would allow a reliable analysis of the situation and a quality comparison with other countries. It is precisely one of the measures to be implemented by the European Commission in close cooperation with Member States that develops a European statistical method to measure the economic impact of sports in the Member States of the European Union. We therefore hope that the results of the study will be used in the best possible way and in as soon as possible with the aim of regulating the system of financing sports as well as quality reporting and control at national level and its comparability with other European Union countries. The Council also pointed out the need to provide funds for the creation of a necessary analytical study of the state of sport infrastructure. In order to know how many facilities we have, how many open, how many closed, what their condition, equipment, usability, cost-effectiveness or management methods are, and to do so in the first half of this year, whether there may be a shift, we may get a response from the President of the Council. In the Council, they believe that these shifts and the legislator would serve on the one hand as the basis for the development of a national sport development programme and, on the other hand, a particularly valuable basis for establishing priorities in the construction of sport infrastructure, primarily for proposals to be applied to European Union funds as we have already talked about, for example, as our neighbours in Slovenia have done. I remind you that the small shift is done by studying the fundamental principles and guidelines for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia, which gave a presentation of the state of Croatian sport, which revealed many weaknesses in the system but also a clear picture of how we lack explicit and complete data that would allow a clear analysis of the situation in sport across all segments. It is therefore also important to support financially the proposals of the National Council, although it is in an advisory role. The law on sport defines parts of sovereign sport, sport system, persons in the system of sport, sports activities, so let us not confuse what it does or what the Sport Act is talking about and we need to distinguish what the National Sports Council is dealing with, that is, the tasks of the National Sports Council in relation to other institutions that have to act in all observed irregularities which would, be financial ones most often mentioned or some other nature. The tasks of the National Sports Council are clearly prescribed by the Law on Sports, and the amendments and additions to the same mid-2012 have been highlighted by the Council as the highest professional body of Croatian sport. Therefore, as shown in the material, the Council gave its opinion and proposals on priority projects, elaborates, studies to be developed, proposed and encouraged the adoption of measures to improve sports, set out guidelines for the making of rules on the categorisation of athletes, give opinions on training programmes for professional work in sport, give an opinion on draft rules relating to sport in whole or in part, propose measures, encourage the creation of conditions that would enable top athletes to monitor sports and academic careers. In view of the legal commitment of the National Sports Council, our opinion has begun to fulfil the obligations and tasks and has made a strong step in considering and planning the long-term development of sports in the Republic of Croatia. We also believe in the Croatian Democratic Community Club that if the Council is mostly represented by representatives of the most relevant alliance organisations, institutions in sport at national level and top athletes, sports workers should be more strongly involved at those lower and lowest levels where sport is often put on the sidelines of budgetary entities for financial reasons and thus reduces that precious base from which top athletes should be created. Today when our financial opportunities, of course, are compared to that of the '90s, are much greater. Sports should be given an opportunity to maintain their status as Croatia's best promoter in the world. I also feel that it is necessary to finally decide what sports are of national importance, so according to the results, traditions, the world's reputation. But I also think of the key problem of categorizing athletes, a system of funding which is mainly based on improvisations without clear criteria, of finding individuals and private relationships which needs to be changed as soon as possible and especially when we talk about national selections. He has problems, but I believe that the National Sports Council, within its legal obligations and on the basis of current proposals and activities, can contribute to their resolution. And equally, we as advocates can, by our understanding of issues, suggestions and actions, improve that. So, not only talk about financial problems that most often sting clubs but talk about all those aspects of sport that are important to its funding. The great importance and impact of sports activities on everyday life makes sport unequivocal to social but economic phenomena, which, apart from having physical activity, favours health and maintains values such as team spirit, solidarity, tolerance and thus strengthens social cohesion and human capital. The sport, of course, is based on the principle of volunteering and must be available to all regardless of age, race, sex, faith, nationality. Furthermore, the European Commission states that sport is a dynamic and fast-growing sector with underrated macroeconomic impacts and can serve as a tool for local and regional development, urban regeneration and rural development. In view of all of the above, we support the National Council's insistence on fully defining future development of sports at national level, recognising its importance not only for sports but also for the country's social and economic development. In this respect, the HDZ Club will accept the National Sports Council Report, expecting further moves and efforts to introduce order in financial, educational, material and humane terms in the field of sport, in line with legal opportunities, proposing measures to improve sport. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54604	Thank you. We also have a replica of Kresimir Bubal's colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54605	My colleague, you are asking for a measure of economic impact on sport and you expect the European Commission to ask us to do so. Looking at Slavonia and Baranja, the economy has no impact on sport at all because the economy will no longer fund and this is evident in units of local administration sport and are not in units of local and regional administration sport is not on the margin. This is evident through the budgets because most of the sports clubs budgets are being financed in 100% of the amount through local administration units and through local budgets. So how does it measure the impact of this very economy that is no longer in Croatia? And the other thing is, how much sport is funded, how much money is in sport, and what infrastructure do we have in sports, and what is a strategy of sport? Had there never been a strategy, public private partnerships would have occurred in large sports halls in the territory of the Republic of Croatia when we talk about handball, and Sanader's model is famous. The only payable hall in the Republic of Croatia is the one that was designed in time, which is the sports hall in the city of Osijek. Therefore, this impact and measureability of the economy on sport is impossible to calculate at this time because it is almost missing in Slavonia and Baranja. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54606	Replication response, Ante Kulusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54607	Well, colleague Bubalo, we all know what sport means for the state of Croatia and who is the best promoter and we can't say that sports is not important for local environments and for the city of Osijek. We all know when the Croatian team played in Osijek against Wales what it meant for the promotion of the city of Osijek, the Football Club Osijek and the whole of Slavonia. Normally, cities and municipalities finance sport as much as they can, but I was just saying that there should be a strategy to finance sports, sports facilities, that in the best possible way the Ministry must be to suggest to cities and municipalities how the best possible means can be drawn from the European Union because if these funds do not get out of the Republic of Croatia, some other member of the European Union will draw them out because according to our people, says the money always has, it just needs a significant take. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54608	On behalf of SDP representative Mario Habek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54609	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, President of the National Sports Council, colleagues and colleagues. Today, the position of sports in Croatia is in an extremely difficult situation where there are a whole series of problems that are necessary to address such as non-transparentity and uncontrolled financing of the position of athletes, conditions of sports infrastructure and equipment, as well as working conditions in which athletes carry out daily obligations. Speaking of collective sports, we can unfortunately... how in Croatia only function in a way of representation, while individual successes as a result of investment in sport are becoming increasingly rare. Croatian sport has been negligible for years. While problems are mostly neglected and covered up while it is obvious that the interest in implementing the Law on Sports was almost nonexistent. There was no will to solve the problem in order to improve the position of athletes themselves, to monitor and control funding in sport. All of this led to an increase in corruption space and the creation of a bad picture of Croatian sport in the public where only negative points are stressed, and apparently it was appropriate for some parties. But I believe that by establishing a sports inspection that already controls and controls exactly sports associations and institutions, these problems will slowly disappear. When we talk about the work of the National Sports Council as the largest expert body, I expected in this report not only to locate and highlight specific problems in sport but also proposals to address these same problems, as well as legislative initiatives and measures that would solve many problems and solve them. The work so far and the work of members of the National Sports Council has exclusively been reduced to the proposal of project studies and the accumulation of expenditure in the state budget. If I'm not mistaken, about 14 such project studies have been proposed so far. It is significant that so far 3 project studies have been made, and none of the members of the National Sports Council have had a significant grudge, i.e. they are not significant, they are not discussing the proposed content and model of the proposed study. Studies cost, while competitions for their production are conducted by the ministry, which points to whether the National Council is necessary as such at all since the job can also be done by the competent ministry. The National Sports Council shall have the possibility to set up a working body to discuss a matter or to monitor an area whose work may also be attended by persons who are not members of the National Sports Council. Such working bodies are most often slow and subject to calls for conflict of interest. For example, there are already because there is already an existing working body where members of the same body and members of the National Sports Council are members. Namely, all members are employees of the Faculty of Kinesiology in Zagreb, and therefore quite subjective in giving an opinion on the proposed training programmes. I believe that this working body should not have been established since there are two members within the National Sports Council who can give a professional, concrete opinion on the same problem. I agree that fees are paid to professional people who do their job, but I think that the council should give a lot more, that it should be more concrete because this is how it almost works out, so there's no point in being. I also believe that the council should work more actively to address the problem in sport, which means offering both appropriate solutions and being a major Suport to the Ministry of Education, Science and Sports. Most European Union countries do not have a National Sports Council, and in countries in which there is a government or ministry whose part is sport and is only in Croatia if I am not mistaken by a parliamentary body. That and all the problems we talked about last year, we highlighted the same problems as now and we see that things are slowly moving or changing, and we appeal once again that this Council must start to work better, faster and better to justify its existence. Because of all the top athletes and all the top results that athletes achieve on us, it is to provide them with the best conditions of work, which is also one of the main objectives and purpose of the existence of the National Sports Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54610	Thank you. Clear Mesic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54611	Dear counterpart Habek, I agree with the good part of what you said. At one point, however, you said you thought the National Council should have done more. Well, it may be, but you know, we should get the Assembly MPs out of here, too. Last year, when 6 people from the National Council, when their mandate was expired, were waiting for the appointment by the Parliament for 7 months to name the replacements from ourselves any opposition, any position, we are equally responsible. In such a way that I think it would be much more logical if we had chosen these people before and thus given better support to the National Council for Labour. That's one thing. And second, of course, is support from the ministry. So in this regard, I think that the ministry and according to these programming documents proposed could provide additional funding either in the ministry's budget, either in the National Council budget so that these programming documents could be prepared and that the National Council could work better. But when the National Council has to wait six months to appoint people to them by the Parliament, then I think we're really carrying part of the responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54612	The answer to the line by Mario Habek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54613	This is the 2012 report we're talking about. So it's not about these seven months now. But all right, I agree with the review. Maybe she's justified, and I believe there was a reason why she might have waited seven months. But if it was waiting and if it was, here's the deal, if maybe there was a seven-month wait, I guess there was a good reason. But if there is no reason then the criticism on your part is accepted. But here I was talking about that, this is not about 7 months whether the Council received 7 months of new members or not, but about this Council, so we have already discussed 3 reports of this Council, and all three reports of this Council have repeated the same story that the Council is working slowly, not proposing concrete proposals, or concrete solutions to resolve these proposals. That's what we're talking about, so we're not talking here right now about whether 6 or 7 new members will be elected 7 months sooner or later. But in any case, I accept criticism.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54614	On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, a colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54615	Thank you, Vice President. President-in-Office of the National Sports Council, colleagues and fellow MPs. We at the HDSSB club believe that the National Sports Council needs the Republic of Croatia because it has professional people from the field of sport. Because if there are various agencies in the Republic of Croatia for which even individuals do not know what they are for or who they are for, then why shouldn't there be a National Sports Council that can offer suggestions, suggestions and the Ministry of Education and Sports, as well as Croatian athletes. However, this debate shows that the National Sports Council does not have enough funding for its work. What's the National Council? This is the most professional and advisory body concerned with the development and quality of sports in the Republic of Croatia, which clearly does not have the support of the Ministry of Education and Sports, since the National Council adopted a 2012 Finance Plan of 2 million 195 thousand 118 kuna, of which the money amounting to millions and 800 thousand kuna was intended for project studies. However, at its meeting on 24 February 2012, the Croatian Parliament adopted the State Budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and projections for 2013 and 2014, which shows that in the division 080 of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports the activities of 768041 The National Sports Council was not planned to make project studies, or only the funding for fees for work in the National Sports Council was planned. The National Sports Council adopted an amendment to the 2012 Financial Plan. The National Sports Council also proposed to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to develop priority project studies, and also proposed how it is necessary to develop the remaining project studies as planned. Priority project studies, project sport funding study in the Republic of Croatia, project study related to the structure of sports and sports legislation, project study related to sports infrastructure. The National Sports Council has given an opinion on the decision on the elements and criteria for selecting candidates for enrolment in the school year 2012/2013. That decision states that candidates who have achieved the status of a categorised athlete from the first to sixth categories will be added points and that the top athletes of the first or second categories belong to three points, the top athlete of the third category and the top athlete of the fourth category belong to two points, and the gifted athlete of the fifth or sixth category belongs to one point. The National Sports Council delivered an opinion to the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports, which points out that children aged 14 years are unable to get a first or second category when they are enrolled in high school. In order to win the first or second category, it is necessary to perform at the Olympic Games or World Senior Championships, which is not possible at their age. Also, getting third and fourth categories is extremely difficult at the age of 14 years. The National Sports Council has concluded that club competitions in the organisation of national sports alliances with competitions of school sports companies in terms of additional points need to be leveled, with the aim of encouraging the development of school sports. The National Council also developed a study, basic principles and guidelines for the development of sports in the Republic of Croatia, and the National Council asked the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports to print and publish. That ministry informed the National Sports Council that there is no need to print and publish a study, which only shows the ministry how much it cares about the direction of sport development in the Republic of Croatia. Also on the proposal of the National Sports Council, the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports developed a project study of sports financing in the Republic of Croatia with a comparative display of EU funding for the implementation of a public tender by the National Sports Council in last year's report. The funding of sports is of great national importance since it conditiones quality, massality, attractiveness and diversity of the programme, availability of sports infrastructure, education of professional staff and, of course, affects the results of athletes as the best Croatian ambassadors. But how does the state, or ministry finance mass amateur sport? Not at all. In the Republic of Croatia there are 2766 football clubs registered as associations. The Amateur Sports Ministry is funding several hundred thousand kunas in the state budget. So we're talking about the development of amateur and mass sports and we see practically that the ministry, or the state, is not funding sports. Sports are being financed by units of local and regional self-government, but we are aware of the difficult situations that have hit many small towns and municipalities that practically do not have the means to finance amateur sports. This is the basic problem where surely the state needs to be included as much as possible in order to raise this sport to some enviable branches because we already mentioned in today's debate that Croatian sport is the ambassador of the Republic of Croatia in the world. I sincerely hope that in the future the ministry will have more ear for the proposals of the National Sports Council and also finance the creation of roof documents as well as strategies for the development of Croatian sport both professional and amateur and mass. On behalf of this, the HDSSB will support the National Sports Council Report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54616	Thank you. Now we'll move on to the replicas. Gordana Sobol, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54617	So a colleague of the Czech Replica related to this part where you talked about the problem of funding and lack of financial resources for the work of the National Sports Council and the inability to produce studies. The money, therefore, is not in the position of the National Council of Sports but as a special position in the positions of the National Council. This is, therefore, because of the lack of financial resources, neither can several of such expert studies be made every year. However, what I would like to add about the problem in my opinion of the National Sports Council is that obviously now, after many years of work of the National Council, the problem is that too much has been given to the advisory and too little to the expert body. So, I think we all expect that the National Sports Council in that section to be stronger to say, that in the professional section, it is able to be able to be in the final line if a study is done by the Institute of Public Finance so that the National Sports Council can give its own expert opinion of what the Institute of Public Finance has found and, as such, it actually goes with additional recommendations to those who should take care of it. Therefore, there is a shortage in that section and then, of course, questions about possible justification and whether or not the National Council has fulfilled its purpose.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54618	Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54619	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Sobol's key word for my presentation and discussion is a strategy. Strategy for the development of Croatian sport, Strategy for the Development of Croatian Agriculture. We have also been talking about sports for two years as a very important branch of the Croatian ambassador in the world, we are talking about Croatian agriculture as a strategic branch of the Republic of Croatia, but what we lack in this whole story is a strategy. Who's going to finance, who's going to finance the strategy? I suppose the government, or the ministry. So what is missing in Croatia, above all, are strategies.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54620	Ana Comparić Devcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54621	Thank you, Vice President. I really didn't mean to, but at some point in your debate, you mentioned football clubs and how you would like the ministry to actually finance amateur sports. I really don't know where we'd come from if the ministry would call public needs for sport for all local self-government units and for all sports and all sports clubs we have in the Republic of Croatia. I think the ministry should give the actual framework, that the HoO must fulfill its function, that national alliances must fulfill their function, and units of local self-government should absolutely encourage and finance amateur sport and the development of sport among young people. I know there are problems if football is put in there, especially if the third and fourth leagues are funded so that our football players who play third, fourth and fifth leagues get three, four thousand kunas. Of course, local self-government units don't have money, but it would be better to use that money to develop sports among young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54622	Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54623	Thank you, Vice President. My colleagues, in part, agree with your replica, but you must be aware that we who come from a smaller environment feel very strongly about the financial lack of sport. We feel very strongly how powerless the small units of local self-government are to finance sports. It can be, it's visiblely practical when parents themselves drive children to a handball game 100, 150 km away without anyone financing their fuel, not talking about pastries, not talking about some sports equipment for handball players and handballs. Yes, I agree with you to fund local self-government units, but local self-government units don't have the money to do that. Can this government, the ministry, jump in with co-financing, with any help? Because if we talk about the development of amateur sports in the Republic of Croatia and that the ministry is doing its best to contribute to the development of this sport in the Republic of Croatia and is practically doing nothing because it does not finance it. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54624	Please. On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54625	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, the Honorable President of the National Council, ladies and gentlemen. Very briefly, this presentation on behalf of the HNS club is perhaps more like a commentary of everything that is said, what is written in this report and with some freedom of several recommendations and suggestions for improving the work not only of this council but of the general state of sports in the Republic of Croatia. For starters, the HNS club will support this report, but what has been said so far requires that some things be said. In this report the presentation and the powers and responsibilities of the Croatian Olympic Committee and the Ministry have been written in some ways, it is clear how and how the role and the power and position of the National Sports Council should be defined and it is well noted that what is necessary to regulate the situation in Croatian sport is the creation of a national sport programme. Now, it is stated in the further part of the text that certain project studies need to be developed, so they are classified into priority and remaining project studies, and now a very logical question is being raised. If in this same report we have the definition that the National Sports Council is the most professional and advisory body in the field of sport why this council does not make all the necessary bases and draft national sport programme and places it to the ministry as already semi-completed or completed material on the obvious and possible corrections because it is quite clear that many more professions sleep in the National Sports Council, which includes top athletes, sports workers, while, unlike that, we often have classical bureaucracy, politics, and perhaps at least a few officials of people who truly lived in sport, know sports and who should actually deal with it. What is the situation in sports today, as organized in that part perhaps a couple of experiences from the position of the former head of one of the main people of Sibenik, a city that, unlike other environments that have much greater difficulties of financial character, is very much for sport, are tens of millions of kunas and 11.5% of the total budget of the city of Sibenik is allocated for sport. But did that solve the problems? No, for a very simple reason because there are no real and high-quality criteria and for planning the construction of sports facilities and for the financing of sports companies. Politics has a key word let's not be ashamed and tell the truth so then we have two clubs, we have a left tennis club and a right tennis club, so we have a left basketball club, a right basketball club and a local tycoon basketball club. So then we have a handball club on the left, handball club on the right, we have a bottomless pit called the political football club HNK Sibenik, which has one 60, 70 million kuna, ask the dear God. No revision can establish that anymore. People enter the audit as if they had entered the 5th level of mine in the South African Republic and never went out. It's the right condition. Now, as far as funding is concerned, I think we should share two things, and in the end it's a matter of differentiation of Croatian sport between professional competition sport, top and bottom of that sport that should be a fundamental task and the interest of society, which is that sport that belongs to young people and that raises young people who, for example, were raised in the same sports hall in time by Mrs. President of the National Council and myself. Women were training on one side of the hall, and we were men on the other. And here's God's thanks we turned out to be good-looking. The question of building sports facilities, I will find it interesting that in my closing statement, I will be given the comment of Madam President of the National Sports Council on the fact that we have beaten billions of kunas into the halls which so I would dare say perhaps one or two have experienced that fate to fill my theatre at the sports competition until the end, at least once or three times since they were built. The rest only comes when someone else comes or looks like it, then there's a chance they'll sell all the cards. I've been calling them Podekin's villages for miles, someone smarter would probably call the pits without a bottom dish except that what's been invested in them has never been paid off except that there weren't enough resources to end it all, so some of them are still in semi-complete condition, they are today a huge burden to budget local self-government units and, of course, a burden that doesn't allow us, according to some criteria and common sense, to channel funds into sport. An example of the Split Arena and a powerful miracle with the debts of this grand sports building made in the context of politics, bread and games, a little bread and a little more games. What this national council could certainly do is give the highest quality of the proposal and criteria for the development of a network of sports facilities in the Republic of Croatia, public exits, educate local leaders, mayors, mayors all those who start investments and give them guidance on what to do. Because when I came as mayor in my office I was welcomed by an idea project of a grand sports hall that should be built in Sibenik cca 200 million kuna, meaning a one-year budget of a large city of 50,000 inhabitants who are undermining all needs should be beaten into a hall that has 4 thousand seats, and the average attendance of team sports matches and beware that Sibenik are talented athletes and are all in the first league and about 400 to 500 viewers. Now, as my little bit of modesty always first begins to count on pedestrian mathematics, I am very soon as the mayor for sport realizes that it's a waste of money and my mayor immediately in the first days of his term came and said, Doctor, although the doctor of sports medicine, Doctor, we'll forget this, we don't have the money for this. If we're going to build, then we'll do this, and Sibenik has so many sports companies dealing with the work of young people and so much lack of sports facilities that we've had a situation that training for children organized 10 hours in the evening. Contrary to all pedagogical standards and all postulates of common sense. If there's anyone in this country, so if it's going to be in the next report recorded that this was made by the National Council, I'm going to be very pleased. Who will tell the Croatian public stop throwing money away, stop building monuments, start doing things that are a product of common sense and good judgment, ultimately responsibility to the citizens we represent and who pay us. It's about sports facilities. In addition to these suggestions, the well-intentioned, indeed without any delay, that this Council, in accordance with its real potential and capacity of expertise and knowledge, takes the lead in proposing basic guidelines for sport policy for the end, will be very pleased, I repeat, if, in the next period for which we will read this Report again, we will be able to come to an agreement with it that this Sports Council will be announced when we have the opportunity, honor and pleasure to look at the TV screens of the escapades, acrobatics and without the appropriate non-sports behaviour of certain quasi authorities in Croatian sport. It is amazing that for years we have witnessed incidents in Croatian sport, that some journalists write about it, that some journalists comment on it and that we have not yet had the opportunity to convince ourselves that the sports world in the Republic of Croatia, sports authorities, current top athletes, former top athletes have not found it appropriate to react publicly, go out and say enough. Sports is among other things a basis for raising people. If we testify, tolerate and remain silent about the inappropriate behaviour of certain people who play a significant role in Croatian sport, if we turn our head from it, then we are also responsible for such phenomena in Croatian society. Since I personally have no intention of keeping my mouth shut on this subject tonight, I have taken the right to comment, to call on not only a ministry that is struggling with this, but also other institutions that are relevant to discuss it. I hope that they will take that part of their responsibility, that they will cover it much better in the next period so we may have the opportunity to read in the report and such notes next year when we discuss it at this time. With good wishes and success at work and with the desire to take these suggestions about direct engagement, the concrete engagement of the National Sports Council takes into account well-meaning success in your work. We will support in Croatia to the People's Party your Report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54626	Thank you. Ana Comparić Devcic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54627	Thank you, Vice President. Well, my colleague Baranovic, in his debate that we can absolutely all support here, you've touched a lot of topics. But you mentioned a very interesting one, and that's the arena. I've often thought about whether actually in this country of 4.5 million people, it took three grand buildings that are staring at the blank today that the units of local self-government have brought to the brink of collapse, their budgets to minuses? Could we perhaps, perhaps, have built small school halls where our children would be engaged in sports, where we would do what is actually the future, and that is that these young people have available sports facilities in units that they talked about before where they live? And now we have beautiful arenas that actually fail in which no one plays, no one trains and nothing happens. You mentioned something else that happened to me, and here I was encouraged to replicate it to you, and it's a professional amateur sport, and what we need, and how we finance it on units of local and regional self-government. And I claim that until the sports alliances do so, until the public needs absolutely determine the profession and people who deal with it will be left and right and middle and those in the hole and those outside the hole. And I've often wondered if we ever had a National Council or the Croatian Olympic Committee thinking about whether we needed both school sports and club sports. Is it really, the direction should go in one whether it's a school sport, whether it's a club sport. Since at the end of the day the stories always play the same kids and actually we spend double money and at the end of the weekend you actually overload our little kids who actually only go to primary school. And I think the National Sports Council should also give answers to these questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54628	The answer to the replica Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54629	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Comparić, you have actually reminded me of a good combination that may best give an argument for what is said. As the deputy mayor of Sibenik and with good support and cooperation with another colleague who was then a secretary of state, I led a project of building a primary school on Meteorism with a three-part sports hall. For illustration, a three-part sports hall means three cross-sectional playgrounds separated by membranes. So a three-part sports hall with telescopic stands for 500 viewers, with a traffic light, with curtains that separate for training, three playgrounds. So huge capacity and very operational, very practical with a set of sports equipment. Only for illustration: 50 leather basketballs and 50 footballs, 50 volleyballs, 50 handballs, there's nothing left, except the hall doesn't sing. 20 million kuna total cost, 20 million kuna. How many such three-part sports halls in Croatia were we able to make to younger generations, only for the price of the Split Arena, Zadar Vishnik or some other halls that are staring at empty and real losses today, and at the same time today, in a large part of the local self-government units, the youngest generations leave at 9 o'clock in the evening for training because we do not have enough halls for real and real sport, but that is why we have halls that remain as monuments, not those who built them but the monument of our responsibility to human stupidity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54630	Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54631	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Baranovic, I am not thrilled with your debate, especially with this question whether we need something or not because we are known as a people who always regret everything they have done. We're wondering today if we need highways, whether we need all the drain systems, none of them cheaper than 100 million kunas, if it's not billions. If we need water lines, if we need all these, if we need a stadium in Zagreb new, what do we need a stadium. And state the example of the Split Hall. Let's ask Split where he is in team sports, let's say handball, basketball, etc. who would fill those halls. Maybe there's a problem, maybe the problem is that you can't find a way to finance these sports so that they can attract some to fill those halls. Let's say that the Split basketball club plays the Champions League if that hall was full. She'd probably be full. But then you say it's a failure, and in Varazdin it's not a failure, and there's another option in power, there's no failure. Or say we have the most expensive pools in the world in Rijeka, but that doesn't mean we don't have a good water polo club, that we don't have a swimming school that thousands of people go by, etc. And we keep asking if it's worth it or if it's not worth it. I mean, what's that for? These halls have served some top-of-the-line performances, and I think they have, and we all loved it at one point and part of those shows, but until everything's done, it's okay, when we make it immediately regrettable that we haven't made a hundred more small ones. Well, they do, and there are little ones I think there are almost every municipality and city. Sometimes it costs 20, some 17, we built a pool closed in Korčula for 40 million kuna. And there's someone training, swimming, etc. And we could have made 10 for the one that cost me don't know in the river how much it cost, nobody knows anymore. We could have made 50 of them, but that's not the question. If we want top-notch sports, we have to have top-notch infrastructure. If it's going to be worth it, it's on whoever entered the public private partnership. And if the state's gonna wear a piece there, it's gotta wear one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54632	Replication response, Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54633	Madam Vice President. Well, maybe I could agree with you fellow Boric if you went into the shoe store and bought shoes no. 52, but I doubt you need that number. You're probably buying shoes by measure, and you're very likely to be wearing a suit. Therefore, putting it in this context and absolutely not the subject of whether the hall is made in Varazdin, Osijek, Zagreb or Split, it is a principle and it is a matter of mathematics, and mathematics is an exact science Enter the books of sports halls, combine the number of cards sold or even the number of visits recorded. Cards can be... an opportunity. With the capacity of the hall, you look at it and you put it in context of 365 calendar days and then you realize the truth, that we did something that we didn't necessarily need in a situation where even outside of the context of sport we have a whole series of priorities, from health care, from social policy, from education and everything else. We were in charge of doing it. These are not real funds, these are the World Bank's funds, the European Bank's interest payments. It's interest on our stupidity, colleague Boric, and I'm sure when you go buy the following shoes that you'll buy exactly by the number that suits you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54634	National Council President Danira Bilic's closing statement. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54635	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs. First of all, let me thank you for more than constructive suggestions, quality discussions, your critical views because you have also raised some questions that are extremely important for further development of sports, but I will try to really refer to those most important things or most of the things that I have recorded here, which you have noticed. But the first thing that comes into my eyes, which is that it is not by chance that all of you who have discussed the importance of having a long-term strategic document to develop sport, because it is also all these problems that are individual instructions that result from the lack of such a single document that would then regulate all segments of sport, which would set some clear goals where we want to be in 8, 10 or 12 years and the ways in which we will achieve it and the ways in which we will coordinate it. For example, there was a lot of mention here of sports infrastructure and, rightly, therefore, the need and lack of a network of sports facilities. It is said that someone said that they would like the National Council to be the one to propose how to get to a network of sports facilities as soon as possible. I remind you that this is what the National Council has already done in the documents, but not only do you see that the National Council has proposed this but rather what we think is necessary, therefore, to get to that network through the right path, which is through the units of local and regional self-government that are primarily not only owners of existing objects but also to control and bring in those urban plans that will book spaces for these sports facilities and that will self-evaluate what their needs are. Indeed, there is one great flaw, so that through that network we have, what we want, and how much we miss it. There's been a lot of criticism here that the National Council only proposes studies, studies. So on the one hand, I understand this fear why we're going to spend money on studies, on analysis, etc. However, in order to make quality decisions where we want to position sport, how we want to get out of the sport, how we want to create the best possible conditions, we need to know what the basis is, which are the basis for us to make certain decisions, how we set the goals and ways of achieving them. For example, we need to know in this case how many sports facilities we have, for which we aim at existing standards and norms, how much they satisfy the needs of citizens in accordance with some number of citizens in a particular local self-government unit, one in a region or at a national level and how much we miss them. We may find that some sports facilities already have enough, and some of us are missing in some larger, more significant number. This will thus affect one of the main elements in this area in the development of the National Programme and the way in which they are resolved. Furthermore, here it is said why the National Council does not draft and propose a national programme. It is simply because the National Council is able and willing to function solely in accordance with its legal tasks. Therefore, the National Council, as already stated here, is the most professional and advisory body. Someone said it wasn't professional, but it's wrong. Therefore, the National Council is the most professional and advisory body and simply a professional qualification in order to perform an advisory function. That's what the law says. However, the National Council has no authority to develop a national sport programme, but the law says it is within the ministry's jurisdiction. However, the National Council has indeed come from its draft to this day, and you are witnesses to this very much encourages, and indeed in the first plan, we are constantly stressing the importance of making analytical project studies, because they should be the right basis for making this National Programme, which I can see that we all agree on and that you are aware of in the Croatian Assembly which is ultimately the most important body because you will ultimately make those decisions and adopt a national programme to really achieve such a document in a quality way. If we want to develop an area of sport as thoughtfully and in the long term, then we can do so as other areas also develop through the development of some long-term strategies. And we mustn't run away from it because there are a number of bad examples in practice. You mentioned the arenas if they were functional, if they weren't, etc. Well, that's one of the answers that we would get, for example, through a national programme, so we want a number of large and expensive sports facilities that will have a specific function and that we want or that we want a larger number of smaller and cheaper ones. But you have to know what we want them to do, what needs they need to meet. Unfortunately, we have a bad one, I mean a practice that is so far in place, which is that we have sports facilities especially larger than sports facilities that only build for some big sports competitions and then in that grip of time you don't have enough, so there's no room to think about what's going to happen later in that sports facility, and then sometimes their financial sustainability becomes questionable. It is also another indicator of how necessary it is really to move sports away from improvisation and ad hoc decisions, and to move on, so to move into one thoughtful, long-term reflection of its future development. And let's face it, in 2006, the Sports Act was passed. He envisioned the development of the National Programme as an eight-year programme for sport development. It's been seven years since 2013. We don't have that document. And that is why I, in my opening debate, called for the joint co-operation of all competent institutions in how from a state policy that regulates the field of sport and other ministries, because it is simply interlinked. Also all sports organisations of the academic community, because it is unquestionable that this cooperation is necessary in order to really have one quality thinking development, development in all its segments. Furthermore, here is just a brief reference to the part where the ministry does not listen to advice, i.e. it does not accept the National Sports Council's advice. I don't think that's true and that it was evident from my debate at the beginning because the competent ministry in one part accepted, even in most parts accepted the proposals of the National Council, and in one part it was not what I warned you of. I may have given an accent on what wasn't trying to appeal to you MPs right now that you're also taking care of it. But most of our advice was accepted by the ministry, for example, for the most important acts of law relating to the field of sport, both the Law on Sports and the Law on Sports Inspection, most of our remarks and the proposal the ministry accepted. It also accepted the publication of the study, the basic principles and guidelines for the development of sport. It is true how you saw in the report that our proposal was not accepted that it should be printed and made available and shared to all interested entities in the field of sport. But we got an explanation that for financial reasons the study will only be published on the Ministry's website, so that's how you can find it there. So here I think, not all of it, but one part of your remarks, so I tried to cover it. And it is simply another final comment, which is that if you really all MPs in the Croatian Parliament think that the National Council should do something that comes out of the framework of the law of the prescribed tasks, then you really always have it, you know the right and the possibility to influence it when you amend and supplement the Sport Act in that part of Article 3 that defines our tasks. Someone said other countries do not have, most EU countries do not have the National Council. On the contrary, though. Most countries have a National Council. It's not called the same everywhere, but everywhere it's a professional and advisory body like with similar or the same tasks as the National Sports Council, but maybe something a little different is called somewhere. So in that part here I think we are now an EU member, we will not function and we cannot function as an isolated island. In this case I say again and again, making this strategy is extremely important, among other things someone mentioned the problem of the location of financial resources. So, at national level, depending on individual regions. Well, it is also one topic that will be very much, i.e. it should and must be treated in such a programme in the long term in order to create conditions for public needs programmes in all parts of the region, regardless of their development, to be quite uniform, especially in terms of children and young people, and to create conditions of stronger and more intensive financing for top sports, but from a market base and from another potential source of income in which we have very high potential in Croatia, which are households. Here he is, distinguished MPs and MPs, I hope I've included most of your remarks. Once again, I thank you for all your suggestions and suggestions, which I will certainly pass on to other colleagues of the National Sports Council. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54636	Thank you very much. And we still have two replicas, Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54637	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I didn't report for the hearing today, I spoke about your report last year, part of the remarks I made in my debate last year stayed until today. However, I have to react to two things to avoid any misunderstanding. You said now in your final statement that if we, as advocates, think what the National Council should do to initiate some changes or proposals to amend and extend your powers, and today there are several times mentioned these studies, and you know that I and our committees have always discussed these studies. No one has said that we do not need professional studies that we do not need them and that they are not the basis and basis for the creation of the National Strategy that is certainly needed to solve all these problems. But I think that we are on track, and my colleague Baranovic talked about it if I understood it correctly, I think that the current legislative regulation that prescribes your work does not prevent you as a professional advisory body to do some sort of study yourself, that is, for the last time on the board, the more you, with this legislation, have the ability to involve additional members or to make professional bodies within the National Sports Council, which could then help you make these studies, or you yourself, within your work to make studies and legislators offer certain finished solutions. And I don't think your existing legal regulations limit that and that's not the problem with you doing that. And here's just some of the intensities of the two of us who discussed it because we talked informally about it that way. Because if you're counseling someone to make a study, I think the Ministry knows. Then the question is again, are you needed? I think you are needed and you can contribute much more to the development of sports in Croatia if you would like to get involved in this way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54638	Replication response, Danira Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54639	Thank you very much. So, as such, the subject we repeat on the board, but in any case, then the members of the National Sports Council were already involved in making basic principles and guidelines for the development of sport and as authors, and we also established two working bodies that were also working on certain documents. However, there are studies simply by the National Sports Council due to the way the legal frameworks are established in which it works, but also because of the extensiveness and narrow specificity of certain areas, i.e. the segments of sport and the need for some kind of research, i.e. the analytical approach of certain areas simply does not have the conditions to work. These are some serious studies that, for example, if you look at a sports funding study in the Republic of Croatia made by the Institute of Public Finance, you will see that they took some 6 months where one team worked continuously in full time to collect all that data and for those data that they could not get to were done by certain questionnaires, or one survey. Therefore, the National Council may even be predominant in this case, in relation to the financial conditions, because we are also aware of the economic crisis but with our proposals and suggestions. However, I also hold that already these three studies we have made are many, one major step towards all past years from independence of the Republic of Croatia to today. So the big one step is done, but what we warn against is not to stop because it's simply the only quality basis that we can bring quality goals but even more important quality measures to achieve these goals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54640	And Gordana Sobol, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54641	Thank you. Well, Mrs. Bilic, I'd just like to underline something that you said in your closing statement, and it's about the problem of sports facilities. The lack of a huge number of sports facilities throughout Croatia and the problem so that we in Croatia decide on the construction of megalomanic objects in fact for certain international competitions, and that I would actually say this, there is one sentence in this study on the financing of sports that says that it is actually a matter of sport financing two-way and that there are no studies that will talk about it and that will show how much benefit we have as a society, that is, from certain international competitions. But then I would continue there and how many debts and unused halls remain after such international competitions that I would dare say in Croatia for at least the last few years, both politically motivated and well-involved. On the other hand, we ignore or try in the same way to look at those buildings that were built not because some international competitions were supposed to be held but were built with the funds of local, exclusively local units and which today are crowded, but also because of this complex of swimming pools in Rijeka, which is full, what is said from morning to late evening hours and where both swimmers and watermen and syncriping and jumping into the water find their place and even I would say that the terms are too small. So in that part maybe we should stress that part a little bit more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54642	And the answer to the replica of Danir Bilic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54643	... There is no need to, as you said, be a priority negative towards large buildings built to, for example, hold some big sports competition because we still need to see what advantages we have with these sports facilities because they are the assumption of winning some big sports competitions. [[Speech is not enabled.]] All major sports competitions, if they are of course well organised, are also a significant economic benefit for the country or region in which they are held. I absolutely agree that the motive for the construction of sports facilities regardless of whether it is large or small sports facilities must be founded or clearly know why they are being built and for which purpose and purpose they will be used and how they will be financially maintained. However, now in the current state until it is regulated with some kind of documents I think it would be extremely important for existing objects to be put into a maximum function for which they can be, and also there is no need to ignore the fact that, thanks to them, we still have the assumption that we are applying for some big sporting event. And I also didn't want to stress what I wanted and not only about sports facilities, but also generally for the functioning of sports and for its economic and social activity, I think it is important to know that in the EU sport and all, therefore, industry which is, that is, the industry's sport-related activities, therefore, record a strong and significant growth, represent an increasing and larger share of EU GDP and create an increasing number of new jobs. And that is why this area is being monitored in the EU with increased interest and concentration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54644	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the report later. And tomorrow, at 9.30, we will begin the debate on the report on the operation of the Croatian Defence Fund from the Homeland War and members of their families. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-28-0.u54645	Report on the work of the National Sports Council for 2012. The debate on the report is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the work of the National Sports Council for 2012. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 116 votes in favour.
