ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56330	Good afternoon, distinguished colleagues and respected colleagues of the Croatian Parliament. I am opening the 10th session of the Croatian Parliament. I warmly welcome you, especially I welcome the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Zoran Milanovic, Deputy Prime Minister and Deputy Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia and members of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Your colleagues and colleagues received the minutes of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament at the session. Any of the MPs have any objections to the record? There is. Dear Representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56331	Thank you, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. We Labourists already have several remarks about names and last names. First of all, our colleague Nancy Tyreli was Nancy, so Vukusic and Vuksic Branko, my name in half of the record is Tušek and Tušak, so I would like to ask that professional services take care of it because my last name is Tušak, and that part of my last name is kept correctly in the records.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56332	Thank you very much. We can realize that, of course, it's being adopted. We will correct the record and the correct name and last name of the respected colleague Tušak. Are there other objections to the minutes of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament? If not, can we conclude that we have established the minutes of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament? There are no other objections. I understand that we have verified the minutes of the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament. We're moving on to the agenda. With the invitation to the session, you received a draft agenda. At the session, you are given the final draft agenda. I put 17 new points in the final draft agenda. That's one. Report on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the support operation of ISAF in Afghanistan of 1. TRADE 2012 Until 31. March 2013 YEAR: 2. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the support operation of ISAF in Afghanistan; 3. Report on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation of support for KFOR at Kosovo of 1. January 2012 Until 23. March 2013 YEAR; 4. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation of support for KFOR in Kosovo; 5. Report on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA" since July 2009. By September 2013 A.D.: 6. Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the Operation of Support for Peace "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA"; 7.a) Proposal for a Decision on the resolution of the President and the part of the members of the Board for the Protection of the Market Competition; b) Proposal for a Decision on the appointment of the President and the share of the Council members to protect the market competition; 8. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW CONCERNING THE CONTRIBUTIONS BETWEEN THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA AND GRUSION ON THE avoidance OF DOUBLE DETECTION AND THE PROGRAMME OF THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE INVESTIGATION AND OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION AND OF THE IMPLEMENT OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION AND OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION OF THE INVESTIGATION No. 503; 9. Final proposal of the Law on Breeding, second reading, P.Z. No. 370; 10. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE Establishment OF THE INSTITUTIONAL FRAMEWORK FOR USE OF THE STRUCTURE INSTRUMENTS OF THE EUROPEAN UNION IN THE REPUBLIC OF CROATIA, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, THE EMERGENCY, THE FIRST AND OTHER READING, P.Z. No. 504; 11. PROGRAMME OF THE LAWS OF AMENDMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTS OF THE LAWS ON ACCOUNT WITH UNLEGAL BUILDING BUDGETS, WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAWS, an emergency procedure, first and second readings, P.Z. No. 506; 12. Final proposal for a law on free legal aid, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 441; 13. Proposal for an amending and supplementing law on court fees, first reading, p.z. No. 507; 14. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS AND APPLICATION OF AZIL LAW WITH THE FINAL PROPOSAL OF THE LAW, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 505; 15. PROPOSAL OF THE SOCIAL CARE LAW, FIRST READING, P.Z.E. No. 510; 16. PROPOSAL OF THE PEACE SURVEILLANCE LAW, FIRST READING, P.Z.E. No. 509; 17. PROPOSAL OF THE CENTRAL REGISTRAL, FIRST READING, P.Z. No. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt individual laws by an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, these are the laws under points 22, 23, and the 24th final draft agenda. I note that we decided on an emergency procedure for the adoption of the laws under agendas 8, 11 and 13 at the previous meeting of the Croatian Parliament. For the adoption of an emergency procedure, the laws under the agendas of 15, 17, 18 and 21 are also proposed: Proposal for a law on the confirmation of contracts between the Republic of Georgia on the avoidance of double taxation and the prevention of income tax avoidance and on property with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 503, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing an institutional framework for the use of EU structural instruments in the Republic of Croatia with the Final Proposal for Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 504, 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the treatment of illegally built buildings with the Final Proposal for Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 506, 4. Proposal for a Law on the Confirmation of the European Convention on Foreign Law Notifications with the Final Proposal for a Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 500. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? There isn't. Thank you very much. So, thank you very much, we have enough representatives. Therefore, there were no written objections to the draft agenda for the session, and that agenda was in accordance with Article 225(3). The Rules of Procedure are considered adopted. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament can now be submitted to those points which did not contain the draft agenda with a call for a session. Does any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to the Operation Support for Peace of ISAF Afghanistan from 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013. 2. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Support Operation in Afghanistan. 3. A report on the participation of members of the RS Armed Forces in the KFOR Peace Support Operation in Kosovo from 1 January 2012 to 23 March 2013. 4. A proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the RS Armed Forces in the KFOR Peace Support Operation in Kosovo. 5. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the EU Peace Support Operation NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta from July 2009 to September 2013 and the sixth Proposal for a Decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the EU Peace Support Operation NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta. Seven. A Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of the President and of the members of the Competition Protection Council, B Proposal for a Decision appointing the President or President of a part of the Competition Protection Council. 8. Final proposal of the Law on crafts, second reading, P.Z. No. 370. Final proposal of the Law on free legal aid, second reading, P.Z. No. 441. Ten. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, first reading, P.Z. No. 507 and 11. Proposal for a social care law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 510. 12. Proposal for a pension insurance law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 509 and 13. Proposal for a law on the central insurance register, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 508. Objection, objections? No, thank you. My colleagues and colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been determined. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following The Rules of Procedure should now publish the established agenda. Please and I suggest you agree not to read it entirely but to allow me to announce that the established agenda is as I suggested in the final draft agenda. Can we agree? Thank you very much. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12 A.M.]] Let us first determine the presence of representatives and representatives in the Hall of the Croatian Parliament so that we can decide on the agenda and the points done. 93 MPs are in the hall. We can do the agenda. Dear fellow Members of Parliament and fellow Members of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Proposal for amending and supplementing the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013 - Proposal for amending and supplementing decisions on granting consent to the financial plans for 2013: (a) Croatian Waters, (a) Croatian Roads, (a) The Centre for Restructuring and Sales, (a) the Fund for Environmental Protection and Energy Efficiency, (a) the State Agency for the Insurance of Deposits and Rehabilitation of Banks, (a) the proposal for amending and supplementing the State Budget and financial plans of extra- budget users for 2013 (consolidated), 2. Final draft law amending the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2013, second reading, P.Z. No. 511, 3. Proposal for a State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014 with a proposal for a projection for 2015 and 2016 - Proposal for a decision on granting consent to the financial plans for 2014 with a proposal for a projection for 2015 and 2016: (a) CROATIAN VODE, (a) CROATIAN CEST, (a) CENTR FOR RESTRUCTURING AND SALE, (a) THE FUND FOR THE PROTECTION OF THE ENERGETAL INDICATION AND ENERGETAL AGENCY, (a) THE STATE AGENCY FOR AGENCY FOR CONSOLIDATION AND SANITION OF THE BASAK, (consolidised), 4. Final proposal of the Law on the implementation of the State budget of the Republic of Croatia for 2014, second reading, P.Z. No. 523, 5. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Value Added Tax Act, with P.Z. No. 514, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on profit tax, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 520, 7. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 513, 8. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Contributions, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 521, 9. Proposal for a Tax Administration Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 519, 10. Proposal for a law amending the Law on areas of special state care, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 517, 11. Proposal for a law amending the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 518, 12. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 522, 13. Proposal for a Law on Mandatory Pension Funds, first reading, P.Z. No. 526, 14. Proposal for a Law on Voluntary Pension Funds, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 527, 15. Proposal for a Pension Insurance Society Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 524, 16. Proposal for a law amending the Law on the Agricultural Advisory Service, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 515, 17. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 512, 18. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 488, 19. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the Court Register, second reading, P.Z. No. 439, 20. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law establishing and deliriousness of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration, with a final draft of the law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 516, 21. Proposal for a Law confirming the Protocol on matters of importance for the Irish people as regards the Lisbon Treaty, with a final proposal for a law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 525 Dear colleagues and colleagues shall be represented in accordance with Article 205. The Rules of Procedure, which determines firstly to decide on a proposal to adopt certain laws by emergency procedure, ask if any of the MPs have any objections to the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the proposed laws? Yeah. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56334	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. First, let me ask Mr. President, I can do all the laws all of a sudden, or... that every law, but before that, would make one principled remark. [[You can do anything.]] In view of the fact that these laws are related to each other and that the change of these tax laws is very much related to the amendment of the Law on the field of special state care and to the Vukovar Act, I believe that these two laws must be in the order of order of the agenda before these laws. The second thing, given that all of these, 2,3,4,6,8 laws have a significant impact on the 2014 budget, I believe that the Croatian Parliament should discuss all these laws after the debate on budget rebalancing, before the debate on the state budget, because look, one of these laws may not be adopted and its automatic fiscal impact on the budget falls into the water. It is therefore a principled remark on the order of the day-to-day work. And now with regard to the inclusion of the point by emergency procedure, I will go as I should, and this is the proposal for a law amending the Law on Areas of Special State Care with the Final Bill of Law. So colleagues and colleagues to the status of units of local and regional self-government located in the area of special care have about 325 units of local self-government. And that we could not discuss this law in two readings, looking at all the arguments for and against, respecting Croatia's entry into the EU, that certain support will no longer be given in the way it will be given but that, in accordance with the use of EU funds, the law must be changed, is no reason that this law, which is extremely important for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia living in the area of special state care, is probably brought through their knees in some afternoon debate, and therefore we oppose the debate of the law under emergency procedure. Also the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas as well. There was no reason for this law to be discussed at the moment when the government adopted its fiscal projections not to refer to the Croatian Parliament in regular procedure and to adopt a budget to discuss itself in two readings, so that both colleagues and colleagues acting as executive authorities in regional and regional and local self-government units can confirm that in many units of local self-government, the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas was an initial capsule to begin certain economic activities there and that certain economic operators there began to work. Also with all the bad and good sides of the law in the previous period, it was possible to analyse everything that could be proposed by a law that would make tomorrow a better solution. Also the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar with the Final Proposal for the Law. In two, three days, it's the Day of Remembrance of the Tragedies that took place in the city of a hero, and we also think he deserved to be discussed in two readings. Tax laws, amendment laws and additions to the Value Added Tax Act, with a final proposal for a law. We discussed this law 3.5 months ago, convincing that removing the rate of hospitality from 25% to 10% is something that is revolutionary for Croatian tourism. And after three months, the revolution goes away and now suddenly to save the state budget is no longer important for Croatian tourism, and that rate rises from 10% to 13%, I think it was at least appropriate to discuss it and discuss it with tourism workers. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax on Profits Act with the Final Proposal of the Law. The Law on Areas of Special State Care, the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas and the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar and there is another provision in which there is something defined by international accounting standards, and also in the Accounting Act, it is clear that those loans which are not chargeable which cannot be paid enter into the operating costs of commercial banks and thus, on a smaller basis, for the collection of income tax. This law now emphasises the fact that quasi would show a great deal of concern for those poor citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have lost their jobs and who cannot repay loans. Law amending and supplementing the Income Act. The majority of the amendments to that law relate, in addition to the harmonisation of the laws and directives of the EU, to amendments to the Income Tax Act relating to PPDS and mountainous areas, and I therefore consider that it is very important for residents living in that area to be discussed in two readings. I have already said a proposal for a tax code on added value, and also a proposal for a tax administration law. Watch the establishment of five regional offices that may not be a problem for the city of Zagreb, perhaps not a problem for Split, perhaps not a problem for Rijeka. Why? Because a large part of the people who work in the Tax Administration are concentrated at a relatively small distance from where they should work but it will be an extremely big problem for example where this regional office in northern Croatia and Slavonia will be because there are not so many human capacities and potentials that a regional office can be built so that it does not require certain costs for these more whichever law interrupts the abolition of certain exposures. So colleagues and colleagues of the laws that will greatly affect the lives of our fellow citizens who have suffered the most in the Homeland War, we will bring them over our knees, we will not give them a chance to make a statement at all, we will not give the community of cities and the county community a chance to make their remarks about it. We'll bring it here as the party has agreed and we don't care what happens to these people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56335	Thank you very much. We've written seven remarks about urgency. Dear Representative Damir Cain, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56336	Dear President, it is clear to me where the state is today and who has brought the state into this situation, but I also appear the visas of these laws under point 10, 11, 12, Proposal for a Law amending the law on areas of special state care, the Law amending the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, the City of Vukovar. All three laws are approximately heavy somewhere around 600 million kuna, and I personally think it would be least controversial if at least these three laws went to another reading. Why? The hill-mounted area, or this other law on areas of special state care, if without it, Istria remains de facto without 30 million kuna at the annual level. I know, and I'm worried about the same insolence where individuals put up 37% of their salaries more than the legislator at the time of Jadranka Kosor prescribed, but if we adopt these conditions, the city of Buzet remains, for example. Without 11 to 13 million kuna, citizens in the city of Buzet also remain without 11 to 13 million kuna and the economy remains without 11 to 13 million kuna. Istra has an annual return or stays, no one affects about 30 million kuna a year, and in the period from 2003 to today we have withdrawn about 600 million kuna. I know how much I fought back in '93. for that status of the city of Buzet, and it's nothing compared to then Mayor Pin... Ornelli Rumen or Darka Kranjčić. Equally around this tax administration and about these five, let's call them regional centers. It is not that it associates me with the possible significant loss of regional status of Istria because what is built into our hearts cannot be taken from us, and I am sure that in that self-rule between Istria and political Zagreb, it will not be a hindrance to express the boards, but I am still afraid of the visual loss of some small existing standard, especially when we talk about this state administration. When it comes to self-government, nothing changes, everything remains the same, however, but when it comes to the state administration, certain changes are observed here, so it might be good to have this legal one, not that it would be good, but should go to the very least into the second reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56337	Thank you very much. We've got a hand worse. Dear Giovanni Sponza.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56338	So here I would like to refer to the predecessors, and especially what is now said for the emergency procedure point 10 and point 11, especially point 11, because it is precisely known that eight units of local self-government in the Istrian County will lose a lot of it. Since we are always saying that the state budget is in a difficult situation, it should be borne in mind that local self-government units are also in a very difficult situation. We need a process of decentralisation, and if we do not take a comprehensive look at this Law on Territorial Reconstruction, it seems to me that we will surely pass laws that will reflect with great damage and consequences on the units of local self-government. We believe the proposal in two readings would absolutely be necessary at this point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56339	Thank you very much. We will now decide to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and democratic standards by voting. Let's get this straight. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act, PZ No. 514? Please state by raising your hand. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 81 votes for and 31 votes against, in the agenda of the emergency procedure, the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the VAT Act, PZ No. 514. Secondly, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes for and 32 votes against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Profit Tax, PZ No. 520. Third, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements of the Income Tax Act, PZ No. 513. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes for and 32 votes against, on the agenda of the emergency procedure, are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, PZ No. 513. Fourth, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Tax Administration Act. Please state who's in charge of an emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of the vote is 79 votes in favour, 33 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure included the Final Proposal for a Tax Administration Act. Fifth. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act amending the Law on areas of special state care. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes by 77 votes in favour and 35 votes against on the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the areas of special state care, P.Z. No. 517. Sixth. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, P.Z. No. 518. Please state who's in charge of the emergency procedure? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I note that the majority of votes by 77 votes in favour and 35 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for a Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, P.Z. No. 518. Seven. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, P.Z. No. 522. Please raise your hand so we can plead urgency. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, 33 votes against the agenda under the urgent procedure, are included the Final Proposal for a Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar, P.Z. No. 522. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, do any of the representatives and MPs have other points on the agenda? The Honorable Vice President of the House Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56340	Dear Mr. President, I would be very interested in the order in which the points of our Rules of Procedure are included or are to be classified under the urgent procedure of the draft law amending and supplementing the Veterinary Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56341	We didn't get any objections to that urgency. What? No, no. We're done with the agenda and determining our objections. Don't! Dear colleagues and respected colleagues in the Croatian Assembly the agenda is complemented. As far as itineraires are concerned, we will take care of the proposal of the respected representative Ivan Shuker. Dear Members of the Parliament, honourable fellow MPs, usually at 12 o’clock to approach first on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament completes the agenda. I suggest we complete the agenda with the following points. 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Bar, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 532, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Corruption and Organised Crime, with Final Proposal of Laws, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 533, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, with a final proposal for legislation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 531, 1. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the laws on the rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, with a final proposal for legislation, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. No. 537, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of War and Civilian Invalids of War, with Final Proposal for Laws, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 530, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Reception of Stock Companies, with Final Proposal for Laws, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z. No. 529, 1. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, p.z. BR 528, 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON IMPLEMENTATION OF REGULATION (EC) No 850/2004 on existing organising resources, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 536, 1. PROGRAMME OF THE LAW ON AMENDMENTS OF THE LAW ON THE IMPLEMENTATION OF REGULATION (EU) No. 211/2011 OF THE EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT AND THE COUNCIL OF 16. In accordance with Article 21(3) of Years of citizens' initiative, with a final bill proposal, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.E. No. 535, 1. PROPOSAL OF THE LAW on the confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the conditions of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Union’s 2013 programmes Year, with final proposal for legislation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 534, 1. The proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in operations supporting the peace of the united nations is all proposals. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following A Rules of Procedure which determines that we first decide on a proposal to pass certain laws by emergency procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. marking. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. These are the laws in today's proposal under points 8 and 9 of the agenda. Does any of the MPs have any objection to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Yeah. Dear Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56343	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. I think it's really high time the government stopped campaigning. We constantly violate Article 204. The rules of procedure we adopted. And I'm going to quote him now, "The reasons for the emergency procedure. Exceptional legislation may be adopted by an emergency procedure where it requires, in particular, justified reasons for which the proposal must be particularly reasoned. In addition to the proposal to pass the law by an urgent procedure, a final bill containing everything and a bill is submitted except for the text of the final draft law instead of the text of the law. The proposal to adopt the law by an emergency procedure shall be submitted by a representative. Then he must have the written support of 15 MPs." And not to quote further. None of these laws have any reason to believe why it is brought by an emergency procedure or for the adoption of these laws by an emergency procedure has one valid reason. This was best shown by yesterday's and today's debate on laws relating to the area of special state care, to the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas and to the Law on the city of Vukovar, what we last warned about. By passing the law like this, a reverse application can only lead us to adopt the wrong laws and we simply don't see any reason why these laws are being proposed today. and that you delivered to us on the benches are bringing in an emergency procedure because we think that they were by the government could suggest in time, that they could argue. I don't think it's good about laws that cause a lot and legal change to decide on neck to nose...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56344	So you're asking for a vote on all the proposed laws?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56345	Well, I can do it individually, I don't think there's any need. So all these laws are in breach of Article 204. The Rules of Procedure, and that's why I'm asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56346	Thank you very much. We'll join the vote on the urgency of the procedure. Let's go one. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, P.Z. No. 532. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 82 votes in favour and 30 votes against the urgent procedure on the agenda included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State's Attorney's Office, P.Z. No. 532. 2. Who is for the implementation of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, P.Z. No. 533. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in charge of an emergency procedure. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes on the agenda are included in the Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Office for the Control of Corruption and Organized Crime, P.Z. No. 533. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law on Juvenile Courts, P.Z. No. 531. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Juvenile Courts, P.Z. No. 531. 4. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, reading, P.Z. No. 537. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 82 votes in favour and 29 votes against on the agenda according to the urgent procedure included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Rights of Croatian defenders from the Homeland War and members of their families, reading, P.Z. No. 537. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, P.Z. No. 530. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes are 82 votes in favour and 29 votes against on the agenda under the urgent procedure included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Protection of Military and Civil Disabilities of War, P.Z. No. 530. Six. Who is for the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the takeover of shareholders, P.Z. No. 529. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Download of Shareholders, P.Z. No. 529. Seven. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act, P.Z. No. 528. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes on the agenda under the emergency procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Free Zones Act, P.Z. No. 528. 8. Who is in favour of the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Law confirming the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the conditions of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Union’s 2013 programmes, P.Z. No. 534. Please raise your hand and let us know who's in. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I would like to point out that most of the votes on the agenda under the urgent procedure are included the Final Proposal for the Law on the Confirmation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the European Union and the Republic of Croatia on the conditions of participation of the Republic of Croatia in the Union’s 2013 programmes, P.Z. No. 534. Do any of the representatives object to the inclusion in the agenda of the motion for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operations of the United Nations? There isn't. I find there are no objections. Dear colleagues and respected colleagues the agenda is complemented.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56347	CONTINUATION AFTER 12.00 HOURS... 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose the addition of the agenda to the following points. 1. Proposal for Family Law, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 544; 2. Final proposal of the Law on Spatial Planning, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 466; 3. Final proposal of the Construction Act, second reading, P.Z. No. 467; 4. Final proposal of the Construction Inspection Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 468; 5. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on financial operations and pre-profit settlement, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 542; Comrades and colleagues, I would ask you to calm down and let those who are interested in the agenda hear. Six. Pre-reading Law amending and supplementing the Law on Roads, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 539, 7. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. Number 538; 8. Proposal for a Law amending the Law on postal services, with the Final Proposal of the Law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 540; 9. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prison Penalty Act, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 541; 10. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Noise Protection, with the Final Proposal of the Law, an emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 543; 11. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment and Rights Intervention Act during unemployment, second reading, P.Z. No. 487; 12. Proposal for a Decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national (MULTINACIONAL) commands in operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I note that the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. mark is not decided in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. These are the laws under points 8 and 10 of the proposal to supplement the agenda. Any of the representatives have any objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws? Davorin Mlakar, here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56348	Congratulations, Mr. Vice President, this was similar to what you call your doctor or pharmacist at the rate you read the supplements of the agenda. On behalf of the HDZ Club, we oppose all points of the agenda that are once again proposed to discuss by emergency procedure. I will probably repeat the 20th time that the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in Article 162 says that only an emergency law can be passed when the interests of the defence and other particularly justified state reasons require it. That is, when necessary in order to prevent or eliminate major disturbances in the economy. If none of these conditions are met, the Assembly has no right to consider these points in an emergency procedure. And especially when it comes to amendments to or additions to the Law on Roads, the Law on Railways, we do not see whether we have a war situation or other defence interests to the point of cooking that these regulations should also be carried out by an urgent procedure. In addition, we have entered the European Union, we are a member of the European Union and the laws that now comply with European Union legislation deserve, have time, opportunities and the right to be considered in two readings. Several times from your place, I do not say that you have said that you have also told us how the chairman, we have been told that the chair is against the practice that laws in the Croatian Parliament are being passed by emergency procedure. I will remind everyone that more than 80% of the laws were adopted in the Croatian Parliament's report in the emergency procedure. By doing so, you are destroying some of the fundamental principles of democracy and parliamentary democracy, which is assumed to have enough time for parliament to discuss proposals that are most often referred to in the parliamentary procedure of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, we oppose the urgency of law-making. We appeal to you that by your majority you will likely again vote on an emergency procedure you are violating some fundamental principles and you are also violating the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which has a rank of law because I have read to you in which case the laws can be passed by emergency procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56349	I thank my colleague, Mlakar. Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56350	Your Honor, Vice President. Well, here's to the trail and colleagues of the Mlakars, I'm the only one who'll say it a little differently, we're shocked by this first point of the Family Law proposal why she goes by the regular procedure. We've been taught especially when we see some P.Z.E. that this is an emergency procedure regardless of the law that has 555 articles, I think at this time since this meeting, which we've learned for two years by emergency procedure to pass extremely important laws, so I would suggest that we put this one in the emergency procedure, and then we'll be at peace so that we know that we have everything in an emergency procedure that we don't have a very long time from the first reading to the second reading, so let's forget it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56351	My colleagues, Nancy Tyrelli, forgive my colleagues, Nancy Tyrelli, you may object to the urgency of the procedure with the proposed, but you cannot suggest that something go into emergency procedures that go into regular procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56352	Well, that's, well, we're shocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56353	Well, I understand that you're shocked, but you can't suggest by the Rules of Procedure. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56354	And now I'm on my way to an emergency procedure, and now I'm on my way to an emergency procedure. How much and what we do shows us point 5. Where, by emergency procedure, we again bring amendments and additions to the Financial Business Act and pre-fashion settlement. When we warn that it is not good for the urgent procedure to pass important laws, then our warnings are not respected, we pass laws as we pass them, after 2 or 3 months we change them again, which in the long run brings extremely great consequences both to the economy and to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56355	Thank you. So we have objections to the urgency of the procedure. We have to vote them. So we're going to vote on the urgency of the procedure. Quarum, please. We have 99 representatives present, so we can make legitimate decisions. I ask who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Business Act and pre-demand settlement, PZ No. 542. Who's in? Against? I'm asking for a result. The law was incorporated into an emergency procedure with 78 votes for and 21 against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Roads Act, CZ No. 539. Who's in? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. And this law with 78 votes for and 21 against being included in the emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Railways, PZ No. 538. Who's in? Against? Score. And we've classified this law as an emergency procedure with 78 votes for and 20 against. Finally, who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the execution of a prison sentence, PZ No. 541. Who's in? Against? Score. With 78 votes for and 21 against and this law has been put into emergency procedures. Any of the MPs object to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points? There isn't. Ladies and gentlemen, the agenda has been completed. We're going to vote. Final draft law amending and supplementing the VAT Act... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And we're going to go to the polls on the debated points. First, on the basis of Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament shall propose the addition of the agenda to the following points: 1. Final proposal of the Pension Insurance Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 509, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the reduction of pensions, which are achieved according to specific rules in pension insurance with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 554, 3. Final proposal of the Law on the collection, processing, connection, use and exchange of data on receipts and public provision by insurance companies, second reading, P.Z. No. 454, 4. Final proposal of the Law on Professional Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities, Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 440, 5. Final proposal of the Social Care Act, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 510, 6. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Criminal Code, with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 555, 7. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on Court Taxes, second reading, P.Z. No. 507 8. Proposal for a law on the market in oil and petroleum products with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 560; 9. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 556: 10. Proposal for a law on the validation of a financing agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on a national programme for Croatia under the IPA transition assistance programme and strengthening institutions for 2013 with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 559: 11. Final draft law amending the law on the restoration of the endangered monumental unit of Dubrovnik, second reading, P.Z. No. 393. This Regulation shall enter The Rules of Procedure determines firstly that the proposal to adopt a specific law is to be adopted by an urgent procedure. I note that in the urgency of the procedure for the adoption of laws bearing the P.Z.E. mark. we shall not decide in accordance with Article 206. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. It is the law under point eight of the proposals to supplement the agenda. Any of the representatives have objections to the application of an emergency procedure in the adoption of other proposed laws. There is. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56357	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. What would you say... I will again point out to you the fact that inclusion by emergency procedure of some points in the agenda is contrary to Article 162. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. If it could be considered that the draft Law amending and supplementing the pension reduction law could still contain business reasons that would justify an emergency procedure, I find it difficult to believe that the amendment and supplementation of the law on the protection and preservation of cultural goods must be brought in an emergency procedure and that we do not have time to discuss this law in two readings. Since you once again suggest that a certain number of laws be passed by emergency procedure even though you were talking about P.Z.E. laws that are not discussed. I am here presenting the position of the HDZ Club against the urgency of the procedure and we are asking for a vote on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56358	Thank you. We have to go to a vote on the urgency of the procedure and we need to determine the quorum. 92 MPs are in the council room, so we can make a right decision. I ask who is responsible for the application of the emergency procedure for the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the reduction of pensions laid down or, in accordance with specific rules on pension insurance, P.Z. No. 554. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? There are no abstentions. So I ask the result. I find that with 76 votes in favour and 18 against this law we have put into emergency procedure. Who is to apply the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Act, P.Z. No. 555. Who's in? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. And we put this law into emergency procedure with 76 votes for and 20 against. Who is to apply the emergency procedure for the adoption of the law amending and supplementing the Act on the Protection and Conservation of Cultural Goods, P.Z. No. 556. Who's in? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. And we put this law into emergency procedure with 76 votes for and 20 against. And finally, who is the application of the emergency procedure in the adoption of the Law on Confirmation of the Finance Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the European Commission on the national programme for Croatia under the IPA component of transition assistance and strengthening institutions for 2013 with a final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 559 Who's in? Who's against it? I'm asking for a result. We've put this law into emergency procedure with 77 votes for and 20 against. I ask if any of the MPs have objected to the inclusion in the agenda of the other proposed points. If not, the agenda is completed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56359	Good morning, esteemed colleagues and respected colleagues. Let us first determine the number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Can we get a number of states? Thank you very much. We have the necessary majority to decide. First of all, respected colleagues and respected colleagues, I propose that we supplement the agenda of this plenary session, the 10th plenary session of the Croatian Parliament on the basis of Article 226 of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose a single-point agenda. It is: Proposal for a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The proposer is the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. I ask if any of the MPs have objected to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed item? Thank you very much. There are no objections to the proposal to supplement the agenda. This complements the agenda. Dear colleagues and respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament. We continue with the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament, the tenth session. First, on the basis of Article 226. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament, I propose supplementing the agenda - REPORT OF THE MANDAT-IMUNITY CREDIT - REFERRED TO INSTRUMENT OF THE MEETING OF THE MEMBER STATES OF THE CROATIAN RadioLEVISION Is there any of the representatives objecting to the inclusion in the agenda of the proposed agenda points? There isn't. Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs, the agenda is complemented by this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56463	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, ministers, Deputy Prime Minister, the Honorable Prime Minister. My question will be addressed to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. How does Croatia intend to solve problems of transferable savings of the Ljubljanska Banka? Mr. President, since you have successfully ignored the request of the President of the Croatian Party to the rights of Dr. Ante Starcevic and representatives of the EU Parliament, Ruza Tomasic, to read about the declaration of the exclusive economic belt of the Republic of Croatia in the Adriatic Sea, I planned to refer the issue to you. However, as my proposal for a decision has already been made on the agenda, I am aware that you cannot state the government's position on the matter without prior consultation within the ruling coalition, which in this case will be particularly interesting. I have another question for you. We in Croatia are familiar with the different interpretations of memos on the resolution of the problem of the transfer of savings of the Ljubljanska banka, signed in Otočac between the Croatian and Slovenian parties. We know that the bank for international alignment in Basel washed its hands from this dispute and made it clear that it was able to offer itself exclusively as a mediator rather than an arbitration role. With disputes in front of the courts frozen in front of the Croatian courts as the bank for international settlements settles the dispute, and the bank has no intention of doing so, the question is as long as the freezing of disputes before our courts lasts. According to everything, he can do it for the next hundred years. Is therefore considering a government binding on arbitration in one of the prominent European trade courts to launch a dispute in order to finally resolve this...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56464	Finish the Honorable Representative Thank you, too. [[Intruder: Thank you.]] The response of the respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56465	Your Honor, I personally participated in the final agreements on the issue of the Ljubljanska banka and the halting of the procedure, not freezing, you said it wrongly, so the halting of the process is not freezing and as far as the Croatian side is concerned, it has done everything she has said it will do. The Croatian side was there, so our side faced with a silent obstruction of fellow Slovenian friends who in the end seemed to have successfully solved us because it stood as an obstacle to the ratification of the Croatian accession treaty in the Slovenian Parliament and I must admit that I no longer see what is controversial. So in Slovenia, we are now hearing some complaints in the public, but the Croatian side did everything that was to be done, even our Law on a litigation procedure was changed before we entered the European Union to open up the space of the institute of impasses, and this was a much bigger problem for Slovenia than for Croatia because the case before the Croatian court was conducted whose outcome was of the primary interest of Slovenia and there was a fear that the Croatian court would not judge in a way that was harmful to Slovenia and the Ljubljana Bank, so also for the Slovenian government. Since this did not happen in 20 years in the Croatian state before the Croatian court who did not rule in favour of the Croatian state and its savings I see it as a paradoxical example of the independence of the judiciary in Croatia. But let's focus on what's important. The real legal battle, which you should know, has been in fact before the European Court of Human Rights and the rulings on this issue for a long time now, is, in my opinion, the greatest danger for those who consider themselves not to be in debt. We have always felt that these debts will eventually be charged, but this will not be resolved in front of the Croatian court, but in Strasbourg on the basis of violations of human rights and the Convention on Human Rights of the Council of Europe. If I were, and I wasn't the Slovenian side, I'd look there, not in front of Croatian courts. So I have to admit that I don't see any anxiety, so justice will surely be respected sooner or later, or achieved, the only question is whether 20 and more years are too long to wait. But that was an obstacle to us getting into the European Union, don't forget that. And speaking of which, you were against joining the European Union and your party president, who is now in the European Parliament, obviously does not see any problem, neither do I. I don't see why in the European Parliament we can't work and sit and represent him those who are against the European Union. That is why the European Union is different from the national states because someone in the Croatian Parliament who stands against the Croatian state here would have nothing to look for, but in Europe it is different. So it doesn't really need to be mocked, it's often planted that way. But you asked me, you mentioned a protected ecological fishing belt. So you know that by joining the European Union, we have entered into another, more complex legal regime and that it is in fact one European sea, and especially when it comes to fishing rights. That's what interests us most. Of course, we're also interested in ecology. When it comes to fishing rights, everyone needs to know clearly, at this point the declaration of any special belt under Croatian jurisdiction is legally unfounded because we do not have the right to do so. So it wouldn't mean that in our waters that are no longer our own but European, only our fishermen can hunt. You owe that information to everyone you think you represent, who may not know it. So it's all about environmental protection, so we can talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56466	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Appreciation of the respected representative Ivan Simunovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56467	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear President of the Croatian Government, let me ask you a shorter question now, why you did not raise your hand for a protected ecological fishing belt. But obviously that this and many other issues concerning Croatian citizens, this government cannot, does not know or will not solve, it is reserved for another government. I therefore propose that this government resign and that in the 5th month we have together the euro elections and elections for the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much. I'm looking for a written answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56468	Thank you very much. Second question and respected representative Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56469	Mr. President-in-Office of the Parliament, Mr. President-in-Office of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer the question to Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic. Mr. Minister, we have witnessed the recent months and the year of an irregular relationship between citizens and banks when it comes to consumer and housing loans. In the last year, the government has been trying to bring a stable order into this, bring a steady balance to the consumer credit law, and last week we had a debate here in Parliament. But in the final phase of the debate, the Banks Association came up with a proposal that in some ways brings citizens into a more favourable position than they were. Of course, they do not do so because they have a strong sense of justice or because they are socially sensitive rather than because they are brought to the corner by this bill. Part of the public is under the influence of the Franak Association and part of the public interpreted it as if there was a government that would make a deal with the banks, that citizens would not get what they expected, the minority that they would be issued again. My question is, Mr. Linic, simple. Will this new law, these new amendments and additions to the Law of Citizens as some claim to be issued, whether the Government will reach a deal with banks at the expense of citizens and ultimately whether citizens will go better or worse simply by getting these new laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56470	Thank you very much. Answering the question, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56471	Thank you, Mr. President. I thank you for asking, Mr. Representative. The Law on Consumer Credits of the second amendment adopted by the Government in its term of office because we had the first one at the end of 2012 shows that the intense government is dealing with the problem of relations between citizens and the banking sector, that the government has a huge problem with a large number of blocked accounts, especially 270 to 290 000 citizens who have been blocked all year round because of their relations with the banking sector. In this new reading citizens get far more protection than we've ever had before. With these laws, we deal with what has always been a problem in Croatia, which is the highest rate of consumer loans related to apartments, the highest rate of consumer credit for other needs. We are solving the fullest possible fee, the total cost of the credit, and we are also solving the relationship between banks and citizens, so that the citizen has to be informed about everything and what is also very important is the eternal problem of overcoming current accounts, the way of payment and the possibility of citizens to settle their debts legally in a year. Therefore, this law solves many things and puts citizens in a slightly easier position towards their obligations in part of the banking sector relations. What we have also tried to solve is the issue of large, large exchange rates in some currencies, since our loans are also in currencies, so exchange rates fall on citizens in a way that we try to apply the interest rate in such loans to already signed contracts, and according to the new rules that are now defined in this law. So these changes define what a margin is, and what a cost of a loan is. Of course, we can apply that to new contracts. But in those loans that have a depression greater than 20%, we insist on applying it to signed contracts. The reason for this long procedure is precisely a long, long negotiation with the banking system because we wanted to have a common solution for citizens. When we saw that it wasn't going, the government decided, determined the proposal, sent it to the Parliament. The last day of the debate in the Parliament, the banking system has offered certain solutions. The agreement reached a very clear solution in the ministry. 30% discount on agreed initial amounts. The bankers agreed that the day after that would give up the deal and go to 30% of today will be worth interest rates. For the government, it is unacceptable, which means there will be no agreement with the banks because they have reached an agreement for a hundred times and will be the proposal you discussed at Friday's vote. So again, irresponsible bank behavior, playing banks for all possible deals. It's the behavior of the banking system. Why did the government agree to another amendment only to apply this law since 1.1 and to have no court proceedings. Obviously we will because the interest of the banks is something different from the interests of the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56472	Thank you very much. Appreciation of a respected representative? Thank you, there isn't. It's all right. Third parliamentary question, respected representative Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56473	Thank you, President of the Croatian Parliament, Honorable Prime Minister, Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers. I'm referring my question to Mr. Ivan Vrdoljak, and it's about the INA. Your Honor, Mr. Minister, in public, we hear different speculations about negotiations with the MOL. This way, I ask you to answer me as to what is the basis for having negotiations with MOL and what is the topic about which you disagreed and why. Because obviously, after the second meeting, the Hungarians decided to sell their stake in the INA, and what you think about the right to buy the INA shares first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56474	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56475	I would like to thank the honourable representative for the question. So, in its decision to open negotiations, the government immediately adopted a framework for the negotiation process. In this context, the first point and the key point is corporate governance. With the first point and with the negotiating framework and the way we will negotiate, we agreed with our colleagues from Hungary at the first meeting. They accepted it, that the first point in which we must agree on corporate governance. At the second meeting, we discussed it. We had different views and that was the point in fact which was the subject of the second conversation and subject obviously and the next one that would follow. This topic is crucial and crucial to us for one reason, we just want INA to be governed by the laws of the Republic of Croatia. To bring governance in line with the Commercial Society Act and everything else is possible with colleagues from Hungary. This which members of the administration in what way and how tomorrow will look like decision-making is not crucial, but it is crucial that it be by law which has not been the case so far. And on this second part of your question, so we got a statement of intent to sell we actually got from one MOL statement. We have read a statement like all citizens in Croatia, like you, which contains part of the sentence and one that says they want to meet strategic goals with us, and the other one that says they are initiating the procedure to give authority to initiate the procedure for sale. And I think it's too soon to draw any conclusions, nor should we, before the MOL officially and clearly does not declare its intention to sell and make those decisions in order to sell its part of the INA. Only when we get an official and formal MOL decision can we also make a statement and make decisions about the next steps. What I have repeated many times is an absolute consensus in the government and now I see in the energy sector that all we do is do very transparently without any information available to the general public and all in the business interest of the INA and the energy sector in Croatia. I want INA to stay and strengthen and be an even stronger emphasis on the energy regional leader. In Croatia it is undeniable, but it is not enough, we can be much better there. And I think we'll do it in the next few years. I don't think so, I'm sure of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56476	Thank you very much. Appreciation of Honorable Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56477	I thank Mr. Minister for your reply. It is also obvious in the public that in relation to the setting up of the Croatian government in relation to the negotiations with MOL on INA and the way the Croatian government negotiates and the reactions of the second partner in INA, the government has indeed shown itself to be a protector of national interests regardless of the signed contracts, and I believe that this will continue primarily in protecting our strategic industry such as INA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56478	Thank you, too. The fourth question, Honored Representatives Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56479	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I ask Mr. Miranda Mrsic, Minister of Labour and Pension System. Mr. Minister, at the beginning of the month, we witnessed the suspension of payments of about 50,000 pensions precisely because such payments went to persons who did not have an OIB. Also at the beginning, part of the media showed it as a single blow to the pensioners but very quickly it turned out that such payments went to people not only who did not have OIB but also to people who did not have JMBG, i.e. the unique home number of citizens. Therefore, I wonder at all what the identity of such persons is, or does the identity of such persons exist, whether persons exist or are Croatian pensioners being stolen in this way? That is why I ask you to clearly and unequivocally tell the Croatian public what this is about and to answer the following questions, where did the money that was intended for the pensioners, what is the amount, which was the person without the OIB, i.e. the JMBG to whom these payments went, or finally if it is found that this is how the Croatian State Budget is stolen, will whether and who will answer for it? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56480	Answer to the question, Honored Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56481	Thus, by downloading the system in early 2012 we established a discrepancy between the records of the Pension Insurance Institute and the Tax Administration. There were over 80,000 OIBs missing somewhere. The efforts of both the Ministry of Administration and the Ministry of Labour and the Croatian Institute of Pension Insurance and the Tax Administration have brought that figure down to 50,000 and of which 5 400 were Croatian citizens who did not have an OIB but did not have a valid home number of citizens while about 48,49 000 were citizens who were outside the Republic of Croatia. I note that Croatia pays more than 130 thousand pensions outside Croatia, which is about a billion and a half kuna a year and we are in the interest of knowing in any case that this user of pensions can enjoy retirement and therefore every year we require them to deliver a life certificate certified or in the offices of the state administration in those countries or from public notebooks. However, by checking what we have now done, we have determined that out of the 5 400 non-OIB citizens, 2,600 citizens have provided us with this information and we have continued to pay them their pension until we have been able to find relevant data for 2,600. After our campaign in the media 300 citizens of the Republic of Croatia have now delivered us the OIB. At this point, 2,300 citizens do not have OIB, there is no valid home number of citizens and what is significant in all that more than 1,100 of these citizens who use Croatian pension are not included in the electoral list, and it is up to us to see where these citizens are now. So, if these are citizens of foreign countries who have remained enrolled in our system and they should go with a completely different way of checking, that means we should be delivered every year with a life certificate. The OIB is not only the number of OIBs we are also used to control in the financial system but it also serves to control and change data with foreign pension institutions so that we will then and in this way allow the data to be better checked for pensioners who are paying out of Croatia. Therefore, the application for the submission of the OIB is very simple. We have sent to all citizens of foreign countries who are receiving our pension a form that was to be completed and delivered to the Tax Administration and would therefore be assigned to the OIB. I note that after this campaign of 49,000 foreign citizens who are receiving our pension over 3300 have delivered to us the OIBs, therefore we continue the campaign, and we aim to ensure that all those who have the right to retire and receive that pension, and those who are trying to hunt in murky and try to cheat into the system that is no longer possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56482	No, no, thank you very much. We're going to the 5th parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56483	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer the question to Minister of Education, Science and Sports Željko Jovanovic. For a long time in schools in the Italian language in Croatia, but I believe that this problem and this phenomenon is much wider in the part at least I am inexplicable in the practice of your ministry and the Education and Education Agency. Namely, persons who have acquired a university degree in the EU including those who have won the title according to the Bologna system when they are employed in schools, of course after nostrification, do not have the same chances as those who have acquired diplomas in Croatia. ... to underline the fact that Croatia has not been at the top of the European scale for a long time in the quality of the university. Paradox experiences its maximum when diplomas from languages that are foreign to schools in Croatian and maternal in those in mother tongue are valued, so in minority language. So if you graduate Italian for example. at the most famous Italian University in Pisa so far cannot be employed in schools in Croatia unless there are other candidates and so on. All this is because in Italy a title is obtained from Italian philology and in Croatia from Italian language and literature and all because there is an archaic rule of systematization of jobs from 1996 which does not foresee it. Probably if someone obtained a degree in English in Oxford from French in Sorbonne or German in Heidelberg is not at the same level as the one that acquired it at one of the Croatian universities. Noting that in Istria and Rijeka this phenomenon is quite common and things problems because it is a clear indication to our young people not to invest in themselves and if they invest that they do not return to Croatia, I wonder why this rule after years of promise does not finally change. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56484	Thank you very much. Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56485	I thank you for asking the question, Mr. Radin. I'm familiar with that problem. I was first introduced to him by Mrs. Tanja Vrbat on the basis of experience in Istria, as well as the principal of the Italian elementary school in Rijeka and high school in Rijeka. The problem is from the past, you mentioned the '97 rule well, and in fact there was an additional problem when they stopped nostifying foreign diplomas, and no new system was built to regulate access to the employment of regulated professions such as schools. Therefore, you said well, someone who has acquired a university qualification of Italian language in Italy with that diploma cannot be employed at the Croatian school or even at a school for Italian minorities for the simple reason that under that '97 rule he cannot access the state's professional exam and work indefinitely. At the initiative of Mrs. Vrbat, we have launched an amendment to the rules that will allow an assessment for each foreign qualification and determine whether the conditions are met or whether the person has the necessary competences for a particular becoming in school. He'll be in public debate soon, so you'll be able to make your contribution, and I believe that by the end of the year, the rule will be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56486	There's no obvious, he's satisfied with the answer. 6th parliamentary question and respected representative Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56487	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, the economic and political situation in Croatia is not good, I dare say it is bad and is getting stronger. We become a deeply divided country. Here are the Cyrillic problems in Vukovar escalating, dividing into Vukovar and not Vukovar Croatia. We're busy with a referendum, we're going to a referendum on how we would vote on marriage as if anyone had banned marriage between men and women. You, as SDP president, did not allow your colleagues to vote in favour of the Constitutional Court on what the Assembly was only entitled at that time to assess whether there was room for that definition in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So intolerance grows and hatred, very often and increasingly. During that time, somehow in silence, I feel the number of unemployed is growing. Here in a month almost 21 grand, 700 of our fellow citizens lose their jobs a day. We are close to 350,000 unemployed, if this trend continues until January we can reach 400,000 unemployed and there is no indication that something will change in that sense. 6.4% more unemployed in October than in September, 3.3% higher in October this year than in October last year. The decline in consumption, the decline in industrial production, all macroeconomic indicators are mostly bad. We have entered the shears of the excessive deficit and the IMF as well as many other institutions predict the decline of GDP this year by 0.7%. They are proposing new reforms. My question is, Mr. Prime Minister, will you call the International Monetary Fund in Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56488	Thank you very much. The response of the respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56489	Dear colleagues, it is about reforms that have not been undertaken and have not been initiated in recent years, as well as the mandates of your government, and the debts have been accumulated and are now to be paid back. Costs should be paid, interest therefore, capital, costs of rehabilitation and privatisation of shipbuilding, health care. We could've skipped that, but it would've come at some point before you knew it. In this regard, I find the issue incorrect, it is not right to ask but you have the right to do so because you have missed an opportunity for reforms at the head of the government. The IMF is not an option at this time, the excessive deficit is an necessity, and here we will see what else we can do in the discussions with the European Commission, and to maintain the social social fabric of our country, not to endanger it because you yourself have been talking about the situation being unbearable and difficult. And since you have already mentioned the referendum, I have not instructed anyone, I can tell my position, so on what is the Assembly, and what is the Constitutional Court but on this will ultimately make this Parliament, both you and each individual and as a member of your party's club and as a person responsible to voters who have a mandate. So Parliament's body is the most in this country, except of course the political people, Parliament is passing laws, Parliament is adopting a constitution, Parliament is discussing the Constitution, Parliament must understand the Constitution. The Assembly in exceptional situations asks someone else what it says in that Constitution because I will remind you, the Parliament brings the Constitution. The Constitutional Court, which is a rule, protects citizens' rights from misreading the Constitution by state bodies, courts and parliaments. Every Friday's parliament ever votes, votes implicitly when it votes on the laws, implicitly says those laws are in accordance with the Constitution. I see the Constitutional Court not as the Office for the Legislatives of this House but as a body that, when it is competent, says what it has, and then it must be respected. So that's what it seems like to me when I change my mind about calling a referendum. It, as I have seen, was voted on by more or less everyone, introduced those amendments which he suggested in his warning Constitutional Court. To impose an obligation on the Parliament to ask anyone but yourself and Croatian citizens what the Constitution says is wrong for me, but you can decide otherwise. I hope that the amendments to the Constitution that we are working on and that we are talking about will guide citizens when they are collecting signatures for the referendum, but in the early phase of the initiative directly to the Constitutional Court, not to bring into line the Parliament and the Constitutional Court to ask the Constitutional Court if something is in line with the Constitution. This is wrong for me, but it found its place in the constitutional law many years ago and serves as a framework for political agreement for those who want it. I realized that you, like the majority in this House, do not want to, that you will take responsibility on your own. The signatures have been collected, the Constitution is unfortunately as it is and, again, I am expressing my opinion, does not know any prohibitions on referendum issues for amending the Constitution. Unfortunately. In 2010, you and I personally discussed it, knowingly or unconsciously, we removed all the barriers, in the absence of any barrier, the rule is that there are no rules. That's not a good rule. And when you look formally logically, every question at a referendum aimed at amending the Constitution is at that point perhaps not constitutional but not constitutional because it aims at amending the constitution. If we put into the Constitution provisions that some questions concerning the fundamental culture of society, if you will and the heart culture are not allowed then it is unconstitutional but you know it yourself, you don't need an interpreter for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56490	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56491	I'm sorry, Mr. Prime Minister, that you rated my question incorrect. So if you understand you correctly, I didn't accuse you of anything, I was merely stating facts that are not good, and so I think the question is more than correct and the question is, of course, absolutely in accordance with the laws and the Constitution. I'm also sorry that you're interpreting in one way, in my opinion, the wrong way, the role of the Parliament in this referendum atmosphere. Namely, the Parliament would not impose anything on the Constitutional Court, the Assembly had the possibility and obligation under constitutional law on the Constitutional Court in Article 95 to send the issue to the Constitutional Court in this case for an assessment of the constitutionality. And I think that all institutions in Croatia must use their opportunities, especially when it comes to such a sensitive issue and the fact that we will come to a referendum as things are now standing and that the Government must ultimately provide budgetary resources, and as far as we know in the budget for this year, these funds of 47 or 50 million kuna are not provided. And as for the reforms you mentioned, the reforms that the IMF mentions, of course, I think otherwise the role of the IMF has changed and that the IMF should not be viewed with contempt, though. However, I remind you, when we talk about reforms and it's good to remind not of their indignation but of the fact that we need to agree on a way to work and a certain kind of consent. The labour law, we haven't changed it, you signed, you signed your referendum on the Labour Act. When we changed the Pension Insurance Act, you personally said as the head of the SDP then where we were moving time to retire and tighten the conditions, you said when we came to power we'd get it all back. You can see that it's not easy or easy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56492	Thank you very much. Next question and respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56493	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. I will ask my question to Croatian Prime Minister Mr Milanovic. Dear President Mr Milanovic, we welcome every beginning of the Croatian Parliament's current clock at a worse economic moment than the previous current clock. All economic indices are down, citizens have lived harder in the past two years and have less than they had. The past two years of your authority and the Kukuriku coalition have strongly marked several moves that have a direct negative impact on the citizens' pocket. Salaries were cut, VAT was raised from 23% to 25%. All excise duties have been raised, prices of all energy, electricity, gas, gasoline have been raised, and heating prices have been raised. The average family with 2 salaries of 4000 kuna net living in an apartment or in a house of 70, 80m2 that travels over 15 thousand miles per year with these measures was taken out of the pocket of about 9000 kuna per year. My question is: Can you tell me how much you plan to take Kuna with a bill like this and such moves for Croatian citizens in a term of four years?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56494	The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56495	Dear colleague, I still don't think it's right for you to talk about taking it out of your pocket while we're at it. Let's get out of demagogy like that. It's a difficult situation. Some numbers are worse, some are better. Economic growth has been forecast for next year. I'd say five years, five years too late. This is a difficult and long-term crisis that has exhausted all of Europe, it has exhausted Croatia. We've had a good tourist season, but I've said it in opposition, I'm talking today. That's not enough for Croatia. It's maintaining the status quo. We need years of growth, every percentage point of growth in the Croatian economy because three and a half to four billion kunas, one and a half growth is easy to calculate. It immediately has a completely different impact on the Croatian budget deficit and on our obligations and status towards the European Commission, on the excessive deficit procedure that I repeat not once again as an excuse, but as a fact all EU members have been subjected. We can really get out of this procedure in two years, maybe three years. That's real. These three years don't have to be years of horror and hard denial, but they have to be a continuation of the policy of facing facts. Debts have to come back. The interest on loans that someone raised in years when there were no reforms must be paid. Shipbuilding must be rehabilitated and has to be privatised. Health debt, master's hospital plan. These are all things waiting for us that won't be cute. We will go after that citizens when it comes to public services and public services have the same or even possible with the same money and higher quality of service. Is that what we're gonna do? It depends to a lesser extent on you and whether you will support such a policy or act in a way that I would not advise you. Will you be more active in the Assembly of Initiatives or will you be as active as you have been in these past two years. Why am I telling you this? Because in the four years of my term in opposition as president of the SDP, I was constantly in doubt whether I was active enough and whether we were active enough, whether we were working enough as parliamentary representatives and as a club and if we could actually change anything. Is our word worth it? So then I looked at the statistics and I saw when I was talking about work, that in the three years of the SDP's mandate, I unfortunately didn't include the HNS that I know have initiatives, so in the three years of the SDP's mandate, so until February 2011, the SDP club had 36 legal proposals, many of which were really serious legal proposals plus other acts that weren't listed here plus an interpretation of government work that were nice to some antipathic. So that was the result of the SDP's work in two-thirds of the mandate. I'm sorry in three quarters of my term, so in three years, in three years plus the HNS that's here, I didn't statisticalally state but I remember some of their initiatives. However, two, not three years of the HDZ mandate had three legislative proposals. One of them pulled right away. Of these two left, one is contained in one single sentence that one Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on judicial cooperation should be put out of effect because the content of the law ceases to apply. And the bill to amend the laws on the obligations and rights of officials, government officials. That's all in two years. Here's your result of your work in the Parliament in two years. Is that legitimate? It is. Is there anything that can change with the Parliament's initiatives? Perhaps you can draw the attention of the public of your voters as you like to tell our electoral body. We're looking at it like this. We, HNS and our coalition partners because you work in the way you choose and citizens will evaluate who's right. That's what I was gonna say. Look at those statistics. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56496	Thank you very much. The answer, in fact, is an indication of the representative of the respected representative Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56497	Thank you very much, esteemed Croatian Prime Minister. I asked you a purely economic question, and you, in your own style, went straight to the ideology and to God's inactivity of the opposition. Let the President of the Parliament give you information on who is active, who works because the fact is that all around 70% of the debate in the Croatian Parliament is a debate of Croatian opposition. As far as this is concerned, I didn't make it up, I'll prove it to you. The average family with two salaries of 4000 kuna is at your annual level with 5% lower salary minus 5000 kuna. On electricity consumption of 6000 kilowatt hours with 20% higher cost of an additional cost of 1050 kuna. If you spend 100 kunas per day buying goods, services, it is 36500 kuna a year. At the annual level 2% of VAT more means and 730 kuna more in the state budget or so less purchased goods. If you drive 15000 km per year and spend about 1,500 litres of gasoline on average 10 litres per 100 km at a price of 10.30 kuna per litre of eurosuper, it is 80 liters per litre more than 2011 prices. Your extra cost is 1200 kunas a year. At a warm-up 30% higher price, an apartment of 70 squares is between 70 and 120 kuna more per month. We've been heating up for six months 420 kunas. On gas 22% higher price, consumption of 40 m cubic gas per month is 40, 100 kuna and more. When you add it up, it's at least $9,000. And I took an average wage of less than four thousand kunas. When we multiply it by a million families, and we have a million and 200 thousand in Croatia, it's between 9 and 10 billion a year. On nine thousand kunas you took 1,300 litres of milk for Croatian families... [[The speaker's off the mic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56498	Thank you very much. Let's go, thank you very much. Eighth parliamentary issue and respected representative Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56499	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I would like to refer the question to Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic. The Honorable President on November 5th of this year in the central HTV daily, you stated in one Polish tone, objecting to the leader that it is not true that this government has additionally burdened the Croatian economy and citizens and that the only tax burden is the increase in VAT rates from 23% to 25%. Are you still thinking the same thing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56500	The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56501	Well, dear colleague, it's not a matter of opinion, it's a matter of fact. My opinion may or may not be appreciated, facts as well. Unfortunately, life is like that, you can or don't have to respect them, you can close your eyes in front of them. In addition to increasing VAT and excise duties resulting from EU entry, therefore the default size, which is secondly increased, you will tell me. So, the dividend tax by the model they have everyone else on, practically all other states, but it's not a citizen tax. At the same time, this same economy is a series of other tax reliefs, reduction of contributions, parafiscal burdens, reduction of contributions to health care that now haunts us in health financing, this is a fact released. Those are facts, so that's not my opinion, and you say the opposite. And then we can talk about whether it was a good policy. Was it a good policy to cut VAT in tourism? Some think it is, some think it isn't. We stand by that though. Whether it was a good policy to disbursement or to be free from taxation of profits held in a corporation, i.e. in the legal person on which the state remains, I don't know what word to use without being grammatical by the state, but it will deprive us of a few billion kunas. That would have been in the state budget if we'd gone taxing it. No, it was left in corporations. Whether it has contributed to investments or corporations, i.e. companies under the influence of the crisis in a certain kind of convulsion, fear, and so we have a situation where some earn good or more, let's say that banks continue to earn but do not go into entrepreneurship out of fear. These are all questions to which there are no definitive unambiguous answers. Were the banks in that story correct? This is no longer an answer to your question but my comment. The banks are the ones who always have to make money, and I know it's antipathical for everyone, so I do when I'm taking out a loan, but when banks get into losses, when they get into that rolling system, it's falling apart. The only question is how much they can make. Because when banks complain, they say they've had the slightest gain of boredom. The economy with any profits and Croatia with any growth would be satisfied. All of these are eternal topics on which there are no definitive answers but this is our choice, so reducing certain contributions, discharging the tax on this profit that remains in the corporation as an incentive for further investment. These are examples. Give me an example. What we did was we increased VAT and we directly burdened the Croatian citizens, we did it on the first day. That was two years ago. Everything else was a discharge. How many parafiscal burdens have been abolished, reduced, various monumental rents etc.? All that stuff can't get results overnight. This isn't a marathon we're doing, but this is one midway race. They can be the most difficult and exhausting because people don't know how to deploy power. And we just need a little time here, but what we're doing is believing it. What's the score? We believe next year positive, it will be better but we will be difficult and it must be clear to all to compensate for years of decline and stagnation. This is the worst crisis Europe has had since World War II, with us having had another war and aggression. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56502	Thank you, too. The answer, i.e. the testimony of the representative Goran Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56503	Mr. Prime Minister, I am partly pleased with your response because you yourself have denied what you said in the Dnevnik when you attacked the leader that it is not true that the VAT rate alone is an additional burden, you have now said that the dividend tax is also an additional burden on the economy because you later remembered that you have increased excise duties on oil and cigarettes and that is an additional burden. You have also increased the compensation for green energy sources, you have abolished increased personal deductions in areas of special state care and mountain-mounted areas. You have made an annual application to another income, making many pay a higher tax at that higher rate than 40%, you have also introduced a tax on the pension of returnees, which has made it impossible for many to return to Croatia to enjoy their last days of life. By administrative means, you have increased energy prices, and thus increased tax burden. With your policy, you have caused inflation tax and the tax rate has been increased in just a year by 48%. Seven billion kuna was directly translated into new taxes in just a year. These are also facts, and this confirms the total tax information, on the total GDP, which was 2011. 14.2%, and 2012. 15.1%. These are facts, measurable and easily verifiable. And the facts are not discussed with anyone or with journalists, and in particular they are not argued with, and such tax policies of tax oppression and the construction of feudal architecture will not build a welfare state, but will make this country the only permanent place of the accident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56504	Thank you, too. The next ninth parliamentary issue is respected representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56505	Thank you, Mr. President. Croatian Prime Minister Mr Milanovic, you have been announcing economic growth for two years, and you are experiencing an economic downturn. Unemployment is recordable, a thousand people a day if we count working days in the last 30 days ended up on the stock market. Of these thousands of people on the day of all thirds comes from the tourist sector. In all of this, we all forget that unofficial data says that over a thousand young people leave the Republic of Croatia monthly. Guidelines, your economic and fiscal policy guidelines have caused shock and infidelity not only in the domestic but also in the international professional public. Very often both you and the ministers speak and are calling for order to be introduced, and you are planning to abolish the Fiscal Responsibility Act. I repeat, you plan to abolish or at least amend the Fiscal Responsibility Act and, in fact, openly on several occasions, you have said that you are aware that serious reforms are needed, but that you are not ready for them. Now my question is what you honestly expect will happen in our country in the next 12 months and why, if you might predict an economic miracle or plan to sit and wait quietly for bankruptcy. So in short, do you have any new plans, all open and honest here?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56506	Answer to the question, Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56507	So I'm going to repeat once again that the total tax burden on the economy is less than it was and that's a fact, and you're interpreting it as you want. What are we planning next year? We expect growth, it is expected by international analysts, probably by you too, and the National Bank. We'll see. So this crisis is marked by years of realistic and unrealistic expectations, but next year we expect some economic growth. How much will it be by 1%, you will easily calculate how many billions are in the Croatian economy and in the Croatian budget, consequently, related to it. In the following year, we certainly won't take your advice from a few days ago to buy 49% of INA shares because I haven't heard anything more irresponsible and unserious lately, and competition has been fierce. So the question comes from an advocate who would be in charge of how much, one 3 billion euros, how much the stock exchange capitalisation of 49% of INA shares is and would buy it and what, then, would be owed another few billion to keep the company liquid and that it could be invested in what has not been invested enough so far. It's your economic policy, after everything that's happened with the particular INA in the last 10 years and all the mistakes and wrong assessments and what's been going on. You see, in such an atmosphere, serious dialogue is difficult to conduct. It's not easy for us, we're not complaining. I repeat again, obligations and debts must return, this country is more regulated today than two years ago, higher tax revenues are not the result of higher tax burden than greater discipline, greater order, and the pressure of the state where the pressure must be and will be, but after all or in the middle of all of this you suggest that the state be in charge. How is it that pension funds give the last lip and invest all their money in one company? How'd you figure that out? I have to get to it because it's the most serious thing I've heard in the last few days. Are you really behind this? I know I can't ask you questions here, but I have to rhetorically do it. Are there other people in this House who believe that I, as Prime Minister and my colleagues from all over the government, have the right to this kind of economic gambling, to be in charge of buying shares of a company that needs fresh capital to be at zero and to what, resell, who, to whom, to you, with a loss? Where did I get the right to do that? Gentlemen, if you'd like to have a serious discussion, take it seriously.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56508	Appreciation of the respected representative Ivan Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56509	Thank you. In fact, it's kind of perverse to hear these explanations from you, these answers. So you who have decided as the owner of HEP, the owner's representative, are buying electricity from exports rather than buying from your own company, so what kind of message is that to Croatian citizens? Do not use the Croatian product, in this case electricity which in this year a propos has enough. You're not well, as usual you were very superficial, so you didn't hear what I said about INA at all. So Hungarian MOL does not have a majority stake, at least not officially in INA, the Croatian state, yes, is responsible for what will happen to INA. There are different ways to secure majority ownership in a company without borrowing 3 billion euros as a state. But read some of the advisors I hope you have, let them tell you that majority ownership can be obtained in some company, in this case the strategic energy potential of this country. And as for economic growth, so you're still officially, officially this government plans economic growth in 2013, you planned growth 1.8% in 2012, you achieved a -2% drop. I stress, so you're still officially planning growth this year, the forecasts of the same sources are -1, -0.7%. So let's really be serious. Unfortunately, as usual, you haven't said anything at all to my particular question, about reforming anything. Do you think maybe structural reform in healthcare is outsourcing cleaners and cooks? If this is structural reform in the health system, which is actually the most expensive system in the Republic of Croatia, then you are very wrong. And there's one more sentence I have to tell you, which is the moment yesterday that I saw on TV that you're ignoring official statistics, even EUROSTAT, to say that statisticians lie, invent, so that's really the highlight of absurdity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56510	Thank you very much. The next 10th parliamentary issue this morning has a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56511	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Government, dear colleagues and colleagues. I ask this question for the third time in the Croatian Parliament. I'm sorry to remind him of these times when we remember the terrible victims of the War in '91. But the nature of things and the nature of this question tells me to ask. Namely, it's about the next one. The 12th on the 13th of May, '41. Men from 16 to 60 years of Serbian nationality in Glina were taken and killed by Ustasha in the village of Prekopa. If I tell you that there were men of Serbian nationality between 450 and 5 hundred at that time, then the character of that crime is clear to you from a total of about 2,000 and 8 hundred inhabitants. A few months later in the 20th and 9th to the 30th and then on the fourth and fifth, up to 900 men were killed, some under duress, and some under fraud to come to change their religion. They were killed in the church of the birth of the God-father after which the church was destroyed in '65. It was erected in memory of these victims. '95. The government then decided to rename the memorial to a Croatian home, and the features that stood on that memorial to remove it. My question is: As long as it's an honorable Croatian name, I repeat it because I've put it that way before. How long will the honorable Croatian name and the honorable Croatian people serve as the cover of a terrible, beastly crime of the Ustasha regime?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56512	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56513	My dear colleague, I can't tell you how you formulated him to answer this question. I can comment on what the government can do. So it's very well known what my opinion and opinion are I think all of us in the government about these things. No matter how much we try to deal with the specific problems of a small man, and in some part of it, a small man is so many of us past persecutions, and it is all a question of the culture of a society, of a relationship to a past that was not so far away and that burdens many Croatian families and landscapes today, of course, with everything. We know what happened in Clay, when it happened, at the very beginning of World War II. These are two consecutive serious crimes, hence the mass execution of all men in the space of just over a month at the very beginning of World War II. Why was that done? I can find some excuse for that in '95. years, I say, in some kind of forensic amount. But today I honestly think whoever owns this property would, because I think another way to get someone gone. Whoever owns it, whoever manages this property should sit down and think about it and make a relatively quick decision to simply return and change things the way they used to be. But it's one of the most serious crimes in World War II. It's also difficult by what happened at the very beginning of that war. So for him, if even for one crime it's hard to find an excuse and you don't need to ask for an excuse for that is particularly difficult. There were killed, liquidated unarmed people, pretty naive people at that point. Well, good. I don't know if I should go any further. It's all clear to you. So I appeal if it means anything to the local authorities in Clay to think about it and talk to each other and see if it's good for them. I think so. But there's some things we can't do and we won't impose. We can talk about it, but I can't come in there and do something that's not in my jurisdiction, and I can put it out there. That's what I'm doing, so if it'll help anyone, then good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56514	It's an indication of a respected representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56515	Thank you, Mr. President. The crime in Glina is the largest and most terrible crime committed during World War II outside the concentration camp system. We're not asking for that place to be declared a special pitetite, nor are we asking for the state's peak to come there and lay the crowns. But we ask Mr. Prime Minister to respect the Croatian Penal Code that prevents punishment for all those who deny the crime of genocide, and this was a genocide action that defiles the memory of the crime of genocide and that prevents the memory policy of that kind of crime. And here, in our opinion, it's more than clear that it's about breaking the law and that it's about denying this crime and that it's about making it impossible in different ways to normally commuting and in normal circumstances to come to these terrible victims. And we expect the competent judicial institutions to do so when the city authorities do not do so, when other authorities do not do so to take action under the law by the competent judicial institutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56516	Thank you very much. The 11th parliamentary issue and the esteemed representative Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56517	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the government, colleagues and colleagues. I'm going to ask the prime minister, Prime Minister one question at a time, I won't go that far in the past. So we are witnessing these days a very important topic that we read on portals that upset Croats outside the Republic of Croatia because of the fact that at the end of next month, so after a year of the adoption of the House Act, many will lose their identity cards and thus become strangers in their own country. Namely, Croatian citizens in the diaspora and Bosnia and Herzegovina who do not live permanently in the Republic of Croatia hold the threatening many provisions of the Law on residence due to police inspection and surveillance of citizens of the Republic of Croatia in a way that enables Croats to come outside the Republic of Croatia to their apartments and houses, when and how long they stay in the Republic of Croatia, and if they go to the Republic of Croatia where they go, where they go and for what reasons, for how long, have they reported neatly to the competent police station towards their residence, etc. In the light of the clear provision of paragraph 2, I shall not quote other provisions of the same article, Article 32. The Constitution, I'll quote that item 2. "Every citizen of the Republic of Croatia has the right to leave the territory of the state at any time, to settle permanently or temporarily abroad and at any time return to their homeland." It is a clear constitutional norm of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That's the end of the quote. This kind of police control almost didn't even have us in a country that fell apart for a variety of reasons, and we know which one. I'm as personal as I am I would just ask a question, so I would ask Mr. Prime Minister why the Croatian diaspora is denied. [[Leko: Thank you very much. Say it, finish it.]] Why are we threatening them by taking away their IDs, when they will stop questioning defence rights and defenders outside the Republic of Croatia, and why do we not allow the rich and vital diaspora to enter their capital for investment and return the pensioners without the threat of taxing their bloodyly acquired pensions?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56518	Thank you very much, Your Honor. We all have experience working in the Croatian Parliament and we know how long the question lasts. The answer to the parliamentary question is respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56519	It is not simple, it may not even be an instruction to choose between it and to commit as Prime Minister and as a politician and minister between the Croatian state, the state of the Croatian people, which is also the state of all its citizens. So, these hunches you've made don't stand, it's all incorrect completely incorrect. I will not tell you here what I feel and what kind of sentiment I come across from the other side when I go to BiH, it is not the Croatian diaspora that are Croats in BiH, in the diaspora I was something in America, in Chile, it is a real diaspora. They unfortunately don't speak Croatian anymore, but they are Croats, too, but let me give you the following example. First of all, I.D. won't be taken from anyone. What will be written on them and how the institution of residence is regulated and what conditions are needed to obtain and retain that status is a second question and it is not directed against anyone personally or against any other group or third group. But to go back to what was before. You're talking about checks, what can I say to people in Vukovar who are asking the police to check the status of local citizens of Serbian nationality? To go from house to house and check out who lives where. Should I say yes or no? How do we set ourselves up according to law enforcement in that case? We're talking about two identical things here, so the law needs to be implemented here and there, the residence is the residence, the population list is a census, and I'm not taking anybody's particular side, that's where the law is being implemented. If someone cheats in law enforcement, if someone gives false information the consequences of it will eventually be borne by either the Croat, the Serb or anything else. And that's the only attitude I can take on that. I don't care if someone registered at an address in Split or Chicago when we talk about the diaspora and where he's been living for decades and where he should have his residence, I guess, which would be on his ID card, the Croatian ID card, which is unquestionable. They'll still have it. It's just a matter of residence. It doesn't mean anything to us politically anymore if there were any illusions of that kind. You know very well that when I go to BiH and I don't go to BiH for votes because in BiH that's not a diaspora, it's the world for me when it comes to Croatia, I don't go to the vote, but we go to see everyone who goes there how we can help people without being mentors and tutors but we still have a special relationship and we all know it. Not to throw them out of their apartments in Split, Imotski or Sinj if they have them at all, so they don't vote for a party. It's not there. But do you realize that we have to take the same attitude toward everyone? When defenders from Vukovar and people who are traumatized, whose introduction of bilingual inscriptions to some rightly, can understand that certain measures are falling hard and some still have other motives not at all warm and unhuman, when they seek the application of the law there, then let us know that this is true for all in all parts of Croatia. And there's simply no room for manipulation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56520	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Ilija Filipovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56521	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So, I'm caught up in the way that you've elaborated the answer to my question, even though I'm below, the time has already expired, has clearly asked certain questions. Already on the ground are visible results of what I was talking about, which is that Croats outside the Republic of Croatia remain without ID cards, check out some of that data in the DKPs, this is particularly important for certain consulates in Germany, Switzerland and not to mention the names of these people, I have them because I got it on my email. What I would expect of you to do anything to ensure that the Law on residence and a set of other laws relating to this topic and relating to Croats outside Croatia comply with this Law on Republic of Croatia's relations with Croats outside the Republic of Croatia and to remove these harmful norms that really bother these issues that I have spoken. There is doubt that the aim was to clean up the voters' register so that the next EU elections would be parliament or the upcoming presidential parliamentary elections, local elections, etc. held without the votes of those who do not live in the Republic of Croatia. It's a big difference having an I.D. and not having a I.D. And I also mentioned the defence population, I have 17 seconds, so I will say for a long time a negative perception is being created towards the defence defender's population of the Croatian Defence Council in Croatia which is extremely harmful, which is unwarranted, which is unsustainable and I ask you to stop such speculation about the role of the Croatian Defence Council in the defence of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56522	Thank you very much. The 12th parliamentary issue today and the respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56523	Your Honor, Mr. President. I refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. It has been four and a half months since Croatia became a full member of the EU, and the status of a full member of the Republic of Croatia is indeed very much expected, especially in light of the particularly difficult economic situation in which our country and all its citizens are present. These high expectations primarily relate to the possible use of EU funds. But it is clear to everyone that these funds will not come in themselves because the rules for obtaining these funds are actually very simple, membership is fixed and in order to get the funds that the EU gives need to have a project. These projects apply to competitions, tenders come out of operational programmes and strategies we do not unfortunately have today, and in 2014 we are still at the threshold of neither strategic documents nor operational programmes, and therefore it is no wonder that we do not have a tender to report projects for the use of EU funds. Since the withdrawal of these resources requires the existence of these documents, and given the recent statement by Mr Linic's Finance Minister that there is a legitimate concern that membership will be greater than the funds that we will withdraw, the EU funds my question to you who are still uniting all the resolutions not only the individual ministry reads, why is it late with the adoption of strategic documents that will depend on the withdrawal of funds from EU funds because this can put our national interests at risk?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56524	Thank you. Answering the parliamentary question, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56525	Your Honor... he's not late for anything this year, he's not late for anything. In this year it is possible that it is the first 6 months to reach a certain imbalance between membership fees and realized funds in the following year I do not believe. And I ask that none of us use it, and that is true for you if you agree with me as an excuse for your own failure. I think it is time for us to start in Croatia as individuals, but also as local officials, that state officials take on more responsibility instead of looking for excuses and justification for others. So the state doesn't stand in anybody's way, but it helps, I think we're well organized. As far as the local level is concerned, it will depend very much on you, as far as what the state is doing directly and contracts as railways we will see, the results will be or won't be, I say there will be. The Peleski Bridge, we'll see in a few days, at the end of this month we're definitely getting a study, see if it's going to be funded the way we want it, but that's what the state can do. In other things, the state has partnered and measured our success in 2014, 2015 and 2016 as part of a multi-annual financial framework that is favourable to Croatia will depend on the government but also very much on the mayors and people who run their environments. We're not gonna be mentors here again, we're gonna help you as much as we can, maybe a little more than that, there are limits as much as we can and I wish us all the best. We will have to stick together but we will have to fight everyone for ourselves but not in a way that takes anyone away because I will repeat again, the division of Croatia into two NUC regions takes nothing from anyone. There's been a lot of misinformation in this House. At the end of the day, there will be neither Varazdin nor you will take anything from Varazdin or Koprivnica or Čakovec or Bjelovar very much depends on you. You can always call and criticize the government, that's why we're here at the end and for that, but you'll never be able to get rid of your responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56526	Appreciation of Honorable Representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56527	Your Honor, Mr. President. I really don't know what to say after this. You reminded me of that statement by Mesa Selimovic that I will never be able to know enough people, I will meet them all the time but I will always remain surprised by the inexplicability of their actions. I wasn't talking about 2013, I asked a question about objective danger for 2014. I know what's going on in 2013 and that we're using the IPA programme, that they've extended it to us. So I'm talking about 2014. We don't have strategic documents and it can't be transferred to the local level. There is no new regional development strategy, and there is no reason why there are no operational programmes at the county level according to the new NUC 2 division. Therefore, the blame lies at the state level. It can be fixed. We point to possible problems so that we don't really all suffer together then finally because of it. This is not criticism for criticism but criticism because none of us have the right to allow a membership fee that will be a year and more than 4 billion kunas to be greater than what we will withdraw. So it's going to be another huge problem for a tight budget like this, it's going to be a waste of taking down small parafiscal duties if we're going to pay more in Brussels than we're going to get out of. But you know, in the Republic of Croatia, citizens are already feeling like those who walk barefoot because of the results of the economic policy of the current government. If the membership fee is even bigger because of our failures because we didn't bring strategic documents, and it's announced that we'll bring them only in the last quarter of 2014, I'm talking about it, then it's our fault. And you know what that Arabic proverb says, four things can't come back: a spoken word, an arrow thrown out, a past life and a missed opportunity. We can't miss the chance we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56528	Thank you very much. Honorable representative Ante Babic and the 13th parliamentary issue. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56529	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to Minister Željko Jovanovic. On the occasion of President Ivo Josipovic's visit to Serbia, Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic publicly told him that in Croatian textbooks of Serbian history, it was written about occupiers and Chetniks. President Josipovic, of course, defended himself by saying that he does not know what is written in the history books, apologizing if he accidentally writes something that is not at the will of Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic, who is a pro-cetical duke who has not given up the title so far. Afterwards, you reacted without delay and prepared all the textbooks for the primary and secondary school of history and directed them to Serbian President Tomislav Nikolic so that he could see that this was not the case and that it was not written in the textbooks of the history of Serbs as Chetniks and occupiers, but you also asked him for his apology. Since the Croatian public is not familiar with the full content of your letter, please answer the following question. Did you, in addition to the apology you requested from President Nikolic, ask history textbooks for primary and secondary education from which Serbian children learn, if you received an apology from the Serbian president and if you know how to teach children in primary and secondary schools in Serbia about the Homeland War and the Greater Serbian aggression on the Republic of Croatia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56530	Answering the parliamentary question, respected Minister Zeljko Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56531	Dear Representative Babic, thank you for this question because it gives me the opportunity to say that in life a man fights untruth best if he shows by argument that he will kill every lie. Two examples. The president of your party said this summer that when the 23rd anniversary of HDZ was marked, he called this Croatian power to the non-national government and I quote, he told us that they were hammering us with ideological weapons, introducing civic education to schools to exude religious science, and in Dubrovnik he continued the other day, Croatia no longer attacks with weapons, but is a divergent in all ways of health education, definition of marriage and lex Perkovic. That's all lies. They are denied by a simple fact, the party he heads is on the defendant's bench because it has diluted Croatia. Here, that's how you deny the truth. Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia said that in Croatian textbooks Serbs are treated and called only as Chetniks and occupiers. Since the President of the Republic has not responded to this untruth, I, as Minister of Science, Education and Sports, who I am well aware of with our textbooks, have prepared 17 textbooks from the history of elementary and secondary school and have sent them all to the President of the Republic of Serbia for arguments, to show the truth that he is telling the truth and that when reading what our textbooks say is a story. I also sent textbooks to my colleague, Minister of Education of the Republic of Serbia, who has just said in Zagreb that nothing is disputed in Croatian textbooks. In a letter I sent to Mr. President of the Republic of Serbia, I pointed out among other things, so I am convinced that you, too, will influence objectively in the textbooks used in schools in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. I hope that education and science need and can be a bridge of cooperation between the two countries and all other countries in the region. Therefore, Mr Babić, all that was needed to prove that Croatian textbooks were textbooks based on facts, I did on the truth and I think it was a great move. Just as I have proved that your party has split Croatia today because it robbed Croatia and the president of your party who was head of the secret service has seen nothing, heard nothing and knew nothing. It's a mantra in HGK, in HDZ. So Croatia was robbed on behalf of the HDZ family, on behalf of the Sanader family, on behalf of the Vidosevic family and other families. ... /The noise in the hall./... Thank you for your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56532	An observation of the respected representative Ante Babic's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56533	I expected the President of the Parliament to react but he didn't, but it's nice that you follow what our president says and you can learn from it very, very much. Sending history textbooks to review the Serbian president, the Chetnik Duke is inadmissible and is actually a subjugation policy and an attempt to justify it. There's no doubt about that. However, it is completely inexplicable and difficult to accept that you and many in the current current state leadership, especially after the acquittal of Generals Gotovina and Markac, are ready to reconcile with Serbia without establishing the truth about not so long ago. Of course, it is true that Croatia was exposed to large-scale Serbian aggression and that no civil war was being waged in Croatia, nor was the neighbour's national conflict as Tomislav Nikolic interpreted it, but rather it was an aggressive and conquerive war of large-serb Chetnic politics. A third of Croatian territory was occupied during the Homeland War and this must be found in all history textbooks and all Croatian politicians are obliged to speak the truth without hesitation. The historical truth is that the Serbs and Chetniks were occupiers, which does not mean that all Serbs were occupiers and Chetniks. It is also historical truth, that Croatia defended a number of Serbs and that they were the defenders of Vukovar. It should also be said that the Chetniks in Serbia have been rehabilitated and have become anti-fascists. Many statements by Serbian leaders insult Croatian politics and Croatian people and in the National Assembly where President Josipovic spoke, where they characterise Croatia's first president Franjo Tudjman as a Nazi and as a fascist, speaking of the same policy as fascist and Nazi politics. Serbian politicians still talk about it even though they know that after a powerful verdict and acquittal of the Hague court falsely claim that the release action "Storm" was criminal and that it was the greatest ethnic cleansing since World War II. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] Will you ask such politicians for a statement and an apology? [[The Intruder President: Thank you, well-respected Representative Babic.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56534	Finish it. And once again, I ask you to stick to the standards of Croatians when you do not enter your speech into other people's standards. Please, nice! Please allow me to finish without you. Please! It's not a word, it's a word that you're messing with and qualified to be in another country, and I'm asking you to hold on. Okay. Thank you very much. I don't think it was appropriate. Thank you. Let's go to the next question fourteenth, Honored Representative Valter Boljunčić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56535	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected members of the government. I'd like to ask you a question for Mr. Minister Hajdash Doncic. My question will still be brief and precise. We are interested in when to start working on the eastern leg of the highway in Istria – so from Pazin to Matulja. This part of the road, especially to Učka, is very busy, and since it does not have a significant impact on the safety and flow of the vehicle. As far as I know they are fully resolved and property-legal relations, the project is finished and the building in these difficult times is just waiting to start working. I think it would, therefore, make the previous beginning of work a significant contribution not only to the economy but also to the arrival of foreign guests and also to the integration of Istria. Here you go, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56536	Thank you very much. The Honorable Minister of Siništa Hajdash Doncic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56537	As far as this hard part is concerned, that's what you're right about, so building permits are out and 75% of the land is actually bought. So it's a stock so-called. Two B's. But all I have to say is that I'm going to say one addition to the soap part, which is that the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, so through the AZTN 30.9., I'm going to advance the concession contract. So, I don't mean the '95 concession contract. but to all its changes and additions because there is something called state-owned or state-owned contribution that actually varies from year to year. And I'll say it's between 20 and 25 million euros, so it depends on traffic, and it also depends on the very financial model of the concession contract. In the process of DG competition, I am now speaking in principle, so the benefits of notification lasts on average for up to 60 days. After that, there is also a process of notification that also takes 60 days and we believe, so that this process will end I will say positively that a concessionary on the Istrian Ipsilon who has pre-negotiations and with institutional I will say institutionally that I will be correct, and also with commercial banks could end i.e. start or finish the complete Istrian ispsion to the Učka tunnel and somewhere in the spring of next year. So it is not possible before, because this would be a rude violation I will say regulations, norms, standards, which are also valid for the Republic of Croatia and I am talking about actually legal subsidies or legal contributions that the state gives to the concessionaire, which is a direct concession throughout the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56538	Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Walter Boluncic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56539	Thank you. Well, I'm happy with that. So, about 4, 5 months will take that process. If it's given to the ninth, it means somewhere in February. So in the spring we could start building, and here we can't wait and because I say the building that's going to be involved, but also because that stock is extremely important, and by its one simple road, it even poses a danger to traffic. Let's hope this second part of the Učka tunnel to this Matulji knot will follow, which is also needed to connect to the Rijeka bypass. Thank you, and let's hope this spring starts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56540	Thank you very much. Respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric and the 15th parliamentary issue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56541	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Mr. Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to Mr. Deputy Prime Minister Mr. Greek and it is about the draft law on regional development that is in the public debate procedure. In fact, since we also know that a public story has already been launched about the removal of areas of special state concern and mountainous areas by the proposal of this law. I am interested in the specific consideration that you are reading about areas that are mountainous and mountainous areas, that is, mountainous areas with us. I'd rather call them that. Because there is a very big concern in the units of local self-government specifically in the area of Gorski kotar and some parts of the Like and the Dalmatian burning that will happen at the time when they come out of this in a kind of privileged position, that is to say, when support by the basis of existing laws cease to exist. I would point out that, of course, we agree that it was necessary and that the time had come to revise these laws and to unite through one of these laws. However, I also believe that the specificities of the Gorski Kotar should be respected, and also some areas due to geographical and climatic conditions in which people live in these units of local self-government, and I would like to know whether the Ministry of Regional Development will, for example, model some other European countries, e.g. Italy or Austria, in particular, treat certain geographical areas such as these. Mountain Kotar area?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56542	Thank you very much. Answer to the parliamentary question and Deputy Prime Minister, respected Branko Grcic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56543	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Madam MPs that, in the proposal, in the new proposal of the Law on Regional Development after three and a few years from the adoption of this law, it is actually going towards the application of that key part of it that has been delayed here for three years, which is the application of the new categorization of Croatian units of local self-government according to the achieved degree of development which then draws on the application of new instruments, or I will say new old ones. Because in principle, we are not changing those key measures of tax incentives, which was just a moment ago spoken entirely wrongly of by counterpart Goran Maric. So, he was saying that we should put aside some kind of support in those areas. No, we want to correct them, but we don't stop them. And I want to make that very clear. So, the categorization changes, all areas of special state care and mountain-mounted areas are categorized according to the development index, i.e. the composite index with 5 sub-indicators. The story was also already made by the government, the last government adopted categorisation. We've been planning on doing this since 1.01.2015. The crisis and the time in which we live will make us go through this in a transitional period already in 2014. It is also true that there are more than a quarter of local self-government units in mountain-mounted areas whose index of development is above 100%, and the assisted areas are areas that are classified in a way that are below 75% of the Croatian average. So in large part it is developed municipalities but also one part of these municipalities remains in the new categorization as assisted areas. So we have one situation and another. What I also want to highlight, the Law on Islands and the Law on the Reconstruction and Development of the City of Vukovar remains as specific laws with specific measures that we want to support in a special way. With the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, the situation was that it did not contain any essential measures that would be different from those applied to the majority areas of special state concern. So we couldn't possibly keep those measures when they were gone. Or they were such that they didn't produce any effects there, you understand? Therefore, there was no need to maintain a particular Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. If the need arises and we have defined it in a way that if there are some units that cross 75% through the development index but in part of the fiscal capacity are below 75% of the Croatian average, we have talked to the Ministry of Finance that through the Law on the Implementation of the State Budget we form a Fund for Fiscal Balance with those units and help them in the transitional period. What does that mean? This means that we would introduce something that is also known in the EU, and it is a pheasant out phase. So, the dating phase. Therefore, for those units that are now in the system and which need to come out that the aid is not directly and immediately but that they enter into a transitional period in which they will still receive certain support in order to make that exit as smooth as possible. Here, that's a message and that's what we put into this bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56544	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative, Nada Turina-Djuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56545	I thank Mr. Deputy Prime Minister. So here I think that over the past few months, how long public debate will take, in this way, to communicate with local self-government units and regional self-government in order to make everything that is in the law quite clear how it will apply. Because there's obviously been some misunderstanding and there's some sort of rebellion against this. It is precisely because everything the Government has made in its proposal may not be sufficiently understood. So here's my appeal to communicate with the very areas to which this law will apply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56546	Thank you, too. The Honorable representative of the Sun's Head and her question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56547	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I refer my question to the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic. Mr. President, you've already heard the data I believe with concern follow when your statistics come to your desk every morning, I hope you're familiar with them, that you're aware that foreign investments have failed, but I don't know if you're familiar with all the segments that concern government, or which are in your jurisdiction. I will specifically ask you, at the State Office for State Property Management, which, by adopting a new Law on State Property Management, has taken over jurisdiction and so the items of the Agency for State Property Management have not been solved. Twenty-five thousand items waiting to be solved. The office contains received items by units of local self-government, natural and legal persons and potential investors. Mr. Prime Minister, at a time when you're trying to sell out state property, when we have a tax write-off, wouldn't the state's register be filled, when we raise taxes, and when we're on the stock market, we've got more and more unemployed why are 25 thousand cases standing unsolved? I'm asking you what you're going to do and don't you think if at least 2,000 of these items were solved, maybe that number on the stock market would be reduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56548	Thank you, too. The answer to the parliamentary question and the respected Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56549	Dear colleagues, you're a really demanding companion. Do you always come from data that no one's heard of and I have to trust? It's about the charges, the convictions, the crime, so something I have to take your word for, so I'm going to have to give you a conditional trust that no case at the agency has been solved. Here's what we'll all believe is true. It'll be settled. Here's what we're gonna do today. How can I answer such a question? So you accuse people of doing absolutely nothing and I should believe you. So we're working against ourselves, having what, enemies in that office. They're working directly against the government, so they're working on parole on the political head of all of us sitting here. Well, I wouldn't exactly say so, so I'm still gonna hold off on what you said, and look back at the fact that we're selling out state property. No, no, we're selling exactly what, exactly what exactly is known under what transparent conditions, and we still don't know who because we're acting a little different from HDZ. To those who meet these strict and demanding conditions, and if they don't, then we won't sell. You will, of course, provide us with 3 billion euros to buy your majority stake, or MOL's majority stake in INA, otherwise 49% is already a majority share under Croatian law because with this share in the structure of other shareholders in the MOL Group, the majority for the selection of all management bodies. It only prevents him from contracting the relationship of shareholders that still gives the Croatian side some rights that they would not have under the law. But let's let it go now. I don't wait for statistics every day with anxiety because I'll admit it, I don't watch every day statistics because I'm not a gambler and a bookie but I'm the Prime Minister, I have insight into statistics very often and they don't shock me and I don't welcome them with infidelity but with reasonable and sober expectations with certain optimism and faith that we do the right things. I guess the agencies are gonna start working. Where did you get such classified snowden data I don't know, but here I am glad you warned me, so we're going to do a little order and punish the irresponsible and I don't know which word to use to the civil servants who don't do anything to get at least one thing done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56550	Appreciation of the esteemed representative of Sunny Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56551	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Prime Minister, you're lost in translation every time. I'm asking you what are you actually doing? You're always wondering about some information, where do you think we found that data? So the local officials you invite to do their job and take responsibility would have taken responsibility for themselves if they had not been prevented by the state. So I'm asking you nicely to start doing your job, which you obviously don't. And it's very worrying that you're not concerned about the statistics you should be worried about. However, with a time-out of a few years, you realized that you had failed in diplomacy and wondered what it would be like in politics. Well, if you don't know, you can tell me now, Mr. Prime Minister, in politics, you have the same fate as you did in diplomacy. I'm asking you nicely to start doing your job and don't be surprised at what you're responsible for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56552	Thank you, too. Dear Representative Sasa Djujic and his question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56553	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I will split my question into two parts, which concerns youth unemployment, and I am directing it to the Minister of Labour and Pension System Mr. Miranda Mrsic. Mr Minister, information has appeared in the media that, finally on the 5th of November of this year, the funds for the implementation of active employment policy measures for 2013. In 2013, 46 000 838 persons were covered by active employment policy measures and more than 500 million kuna were provided in the budget while the incentives amounted to 250 million kuna in 2011 and increased systematically over the past two years. In view of these indicators, my question is, which means the fact that the 5th November spent all the incentives and is that correct? How satisfied are you with the effects of the incentive? Will the incentives continue next year and in what size or in order to assess the success of this project? And my second part of the issue is about the big problem of youth unemployment which is a burning problem in the EU as well as in Croatia, and therefore in the past days and the second Conference on Youth Employment in Paris was held where you were present together with Prime Minister Milanovic. The conference announced an EU Youth Guarantee programme that should encourage youth employment, so I ask you to briefly address the problems of youth unemployment. What can we expect from the EU Youth Guarantee programme, or what are you planning to do about youth unemployment in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56554	Answering the question asked, respected Minister Miranda Mrsic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56555	Dear Mr. Representative, it is true that when we took over the Ministry of Labour and Pensions and the Croatian Employment Institute in 2011 there were only 250 million available funds for these measures and to note that 2011. Fifteen thousand people from the Department of Employment sent to education with the sole goal of masking the number of unemployed. So much for statistics and how I interpret statistics. When we talk about statistical data in Croatia, EUROSTAT data are data from the Croatian Statistics Institute, the DZS which is based on EUROSTAT methodology but what is the basic question of what data we have in Croatia, what kind of researchers we have in Croatia, and this is now the task of the DZS to make certain steps in this area and that the data that we get are based on what legal knowledge we have. We have increased the funding for an active employment policy measure by over 50%, so over half a billion at this point we have at our disposal and this year there has been an unremembered interest not only because the number of unemployed is increased but because the unemployed themselves realized that through active employment measures they can find jobs. And when we talk about an increase in the number of unemployed, then I would ask to look at the statistics from where the unemployed come from at this point in time at the State Employment Service, and from this data, it is evident that we have a decline in the number of unemployed who come from an active employment relationship, but that we have an increase in the number of unemployed who come from schooling, who come from inactivity and this increase in the number of unemployed should be seen in another context, to activate the number of unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. We are a country that has a very low employment rate, so we only have 52% of the active population looking for a job and what our goal is to increase the availability of the workforce and these measures that we are now doing are going in that direction. It notes that we used funds for this year, and the reason is that when you look at statistics when we talk about self-employment growth is 224% from 1605 in 2012 to over 5000 this year. When we talk about professional training for work without a working relationship, 2012 9500, 17139 this year, an increase of 78%. This says that the funds we use and we take advantage of them in the best possible way and when compared by people who have completed professional training without establishing a working relationship over 61% of them find a job in the first year after they have completed that measure. Yes, we were at the conference and we are pleased that President Barroso praised Croatia as one of the few countries, so 10 countries from 28 countries delivered a programme of guarantees for young people and yes, Croatia is among them. This means that we will make very good use of the resources available to us. According to current projections, it is about 37m euros that will be available next year, and we are moving into that guarantee. And what we aim at is for young people to get a job within six months, to go into employment, to go to education or to start self-employment, and these are the three ways that the European Union is promoting at the moment. We are pleased to recognize us in the European Union as leaders in this area and we will continue to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56556	Thank you, too. The next question is the question of the respected representative Hrvoje Nekic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56557	Dear President-in-Office of the Parliament, the Honorable Prime Minister, honourable ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. I refer my question to Minister of Finance Mr. Slavko Linic. Dear Ministers, as Croatia is soon entering the excessive deficit procedure, please comment on the latest EUROSTAT report for Croatia and who is responsible and why we have come to such a situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56558	Answer to the parliamentary question, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56559	Thank you, Mr. Representative, for asking the question. With the entry into the European Union, the competent fiscal data reports have been transferred to statistics and for the first time, common data from the State Statistics Office and EUROSTAT were first published in October. What is important to point out for Croatia, the reports are indeed made at the State Statistics Institute, completely without any doubt accepted by EUROSTAT, which means that the data is believed to be.... The difference between ESA 95 and this is the European Union methodology in relation to a national methodology which was more or less based on the IMF methodology. What difference does it make? So in addition to the actual data we have in our business books, the area of the state budget is different. The state budget includes both Croatian and HZ-Infrastructure, which has not been covered so far, and what has been a benefit and these are DAB's assets, is being evicted from these reports for the reason that it is the money that is being paid by the commercial banks. Different treatment and individual transactions, and that is the most important. Payments by guarantees are currently recorded as payable, but three years of guarantees are consecutively meant to assume the total debts of those for which we have given guarantees, which so far has not been. Moreover, losses in companies are considered to be the same losses in the state budget for the reason that they need to be covered. Also, compensation and compensation to pensioners did not prove to be a deficit, and according to the ESA 95 methodology, these are government deficits. And of course, the same question is when the obligations were made whether by payment or payment obligation. These are all changes that have significantly changed the statistics of our deficit and the statistics of our public debt. Well, just a few details about that. EUROSTAT has published new data since 2009 and in 2009 it has shown a deficit of 17.4 billion in the state budget, 2010. 20.6 billion and the record is 2011 with 25.7 billion deficits. A total of three last years of HDZ's mandate of 63.6 billion deficits, only for the reasons that actual insurance expenditures went in, the actual expenditure on unpaid guarantees in three years, and not to say all of this. It was also announced in 2012, according to the EUROSTAT deficit of 16.3 billion. It therefore shows what government policy is: wastelessness, carelessness, non-resolvement of dubiosis, non-implementation of structural reforms. At the same time, all the savings that were spent and fell on the burden of the citizens are the result of such high statements.../The speaker is not understood. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much Minister.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56560	Thank you very much. Appreciation of the respected representative Hrvoja Nekic. Here you go. You won't. Dear Vice President of the House Tomislav Culjak and the next question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56561	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, I will refer my question to the Croatian Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. I asked you why you sell Croatian insurance at a price that is several times lower than the market price. Since I was not satisfied with your explanation today, I would like to ask you whether you are aware that the Austrian insurance house UNICA wants and buys Basler insurance Croatia and at what price it purchases it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56562	Answering the parliamentary question, Croatian Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic, respected.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56563	Thank you very much. I'm not aware of this other one because I'm not a stock analyst, and I'm very well aware of this first one. Namely, there's only one price. You know what the price is? The one someone's willing to pay. Market price, i.e. stock value, market capitalisation of INA is so much and so much. If someone wants to pay for it, that's another question. Usually never more than that, very often less than that. So there's no in this case, and I think you're completely wrong. Other prices other than those that someone is willing to pay, especially when several interested ones appear. Then there's simply no secrets. So there are interested bidders, there are rules of competition, there is a nominal stock market price and there is and that is all that matters is what the buyer is willing to pay. You can also think about your car, your home, your art, whatever you want. Until someone shows up, and they're willing to pay for it, it's worth nothing. We believe Croatia is worth it. This shows Croatia's insurance, which shows both the interest of the bidders and the serious ones. It is necessary for the company to enter the money, the equivalent, so that it can develop, so that it does not go through a decade of market share erosion. The company is still visible, strong, stable, has been operating in market competition for years. Therefore, it is not a classical state-owned company but a company, a shareholder company in majority, or almost exclusively state-owned. But the competition is here. The company cannot deal with it this way and needs a strong investor partner. And that's all. How much will they be willing to pay for it will show the market. If we don't end up satisfied with it, we can back off. But I'll say it again so people don't sell empty stories. The market price is the price someone is willing to pay whatever we think of ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56564	The obvious vice president of Dom Tomislav Culjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56565	So I asked you about the sale of Basler insurance which holds only 4% of the market share in the Republic of Croatia. The company is operating at a loss, worth 70m euros according to an insurance company in Austria's UNICA. At the same time for Croatia insurance which holds even 33% of the market share in the Republic of Croatia and which generates business profits from year to year you are ready to accept an offer of 121m euros. By the same criteria, when analysed according to the same criteria for selling the Basler price, Croatia's insurance would be not 121m euros but 566m euros. It is therefore assumed that by selling this type of product, if you insist on continuing to do damage to the state budget of around 3.4 billion kuna. You, as president of the Croatian government, are expected to prevent this sale at that price and in the way that the procedure and evaluation of this company is carried out, Croatia's insurance. Otherwise you can expect a criminal application against all those who will participate in this process of selling Croatia insurance in this way and with this assessment that is not marketable. I don't expect, of course, I don't have any illusions that you're going to hear me and you're going to listen to this. as I don't expect you to run Croatia in a different direction because you're going in the wrong direction all the time. [[The incursion president: Thank you.]] And one more thing I have to say is that what happened in Vukovar [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] for Croatian defenders who are... /The speaker is heard./... [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56566	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President Home, we will now have a recess until 12:00 sharp. We'll be back at 1200 hours, resuming the current morning. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56567	My colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Prime Minister, the ministers continue with the current morning. The right to ask a question is a colleague of the Dunja Spoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56568	Thank you, Vice President, Honorable Prime Minister and Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I'm referring the question to Mr. Predrag Matic. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary, I'm giving you a question about the problem of female rape victims. In fact, a little more than a year back began to prepare for the systematic resolution of their issue through a law that would finally, on the one hand, recognise them as victims of the Homeland War and, on the other hand, determine the ways and options of compensation. All of us together can't make up for 20 years of indemnity of state institutions on this matter, we can't make up for lost records and statements that have been multiple indignities that they've experienced. But through the law being prepared in your ministry, we can give them some satisfaction. Mr. Minister, please tell us at what stage is the preparation of this legislative proposal and how is the status of these women expected to be resolved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56569	Minister Predrag Matic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56570	Dear MPs and MPs thank you for this matter. So, the Homeland War has brought great casualties to the Republic of Croatia, many dead, wounded, exiled, large economic destruction. Many of these things have been resolved, more or less well, by our laws, however, there are two issues left that have not been resolved. It's a question of civilian victims of the Homeland War and the question of victims of sexual abuse as a war crime. That's what you asked me today. I want to tell you that, of course, because of the specificity of the problem, because of the particular sensitivity of this topic, unfortunately, no one has dealt with this issue in these 22 years, and these victims are still seeking their attention, seeking compensation, seeking compensation materially and morally. This government, this ministry has accepted one job that is to paraphrasing the late President Kennedy, we caught up with it not because it's easy but because it's hard. It's really very difficult in these conversations that we've had with the victims of sexual abuse as a war crime committed in the Homeland War, it's really hard, it's really hard, but the ones we do have no right to complain to are in the first place of those people who have been exposed to such a crime. And that's why the Defense Department will pass that law. Unfortunately, because of some problems, some of the topics that have led the ministry to withdraw over the past few months, we have been unable to fully address this difficult and big problem, but we are working on it. The law is almost complete and will come to a public debate during about a month, and then to this House for reading and passing. We will never restore this law to that suffering that people, women most often are but of course there have been men who have passed the crimes of sexual abuse primarily in Serbian concentration camps we will never be able to fully compensate for. However, Croatia is obliged and that is what we will do to make them morally confess their sacrifice and their suffering that they have suffered, which they carry within them for 20 years. Some people have already come forward, some will come forward after this law has been passed to compensate them morally but also materially for what they have experienced, that suffering I say that no one has reached in this government for 22 years. We'll do it one satisfactory way. And I can promise, unfortunately, we said the law would be passed by the end of the year, but in the first two, three months of the following year it will certainly be passed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56571	The obvious? There's no need. The next question will be asked by counterpart Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56572	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Justice Minister, Mr. Orsate Milenic, in Croatia, to work and not to get paid, also to retire, and only then to learn that the employer did not pay your contributions was something normal, in fact something abnormal became normal until as we promised to introduce it into our criminal legislation non-payment of wages as a criminal act but also further protected workers from the lack of payment of contributions by employers. Thus, it also exists a special criminal offence and infringements of the rights of insurance, as well as in the criminal act of non-payment of salaries in paragraph 6. the non-payment of contributions by employers is also covered by this criminal act of non-payment of salaries. Can you tell Mr. Minister what the effects of the application of this crime are, a new crime that has been in effect since 1.01 this year, but we also see that there is a new scandal in the HGK that the one replaced by Vidosevic Darko Petricevic did not pay his own wages. So it's a crime not only to cry out for justice and for protection but it's one piece for which we all have to be sensitized and who expects a great social conviction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56573	Justice Minister Orsat Milenic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56574	Your Honor, Madam Representative, thank you very much for asking. It is true that the crime of non-payment of wages has been imposed by another criminal law that has now entered into force. We have also added, on the basis of this Parliament's initiative, an additional provision that regulates and fails to pay the billing bill, because it was very important to link it to the Implementing Law, since it is an executive rule, and we wanted to give it an additional opportunity for workers to exercise their rights. So the situation is now next, criminally-legally arranged and paid, contributions are arranged by violations, we have a whole series of procedures to begin with. They're not finished because of their nature. I'll give you the exact figures by written means. Here you mentioned today this example in the Chamber of Commerce where it is true that the person who has been placed vd against it is being prosecuted precisely because of the lack of pay, so we can say that both are being realized and what we wanted to achieve through it. Infringements are sanctioned by non-compliance with a legally specified time limit when it must be handed over. That's where the inspections are doing their job and I'm rereading a series of procedures going on. However, what is very important, we have for the first time even though this provision was in the Labour Act that this billing list means the billing of salaries is an executive document, we have first installed it now and in the Executive Law as a basis for implementing the exercise and thus given the possibility to be very simple with that correcting which form the colleague Mrssic has prescribed it to be able to come and carry out the same day's forced payment. Of course that's all we've done with this aspect. In implementation on his part for the State's Attorney's Office, what I have to admit are missing applications. We expected, given the debate we had in the House, that there would be a lot more reports about this crime of non-payment of salaries, there are not so many. They're being processed and they're going their own way. But what's our real problem is where there's no money. And then it doesn't help you from one side to the other, nor does it help you with any criminal responsibility until the end. Penalty has one advantage there because it goes on personal, means when and when there is no money that a worker can charge can through that criminal responsibility be committed to a kind of coercion. But the overall problem will unfortunately exist in the future. So we have created a whole legislative framework but it will always exist until there is a lack of money in the system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56575	You don't want to be obvious to your colleague Antičević. The right to ask a question is being asked by a respected colleague Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56576	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Minister Maras, there have been frequent debates in the EU recently on the future of defence production and small and medium-sized enterprises dealing with defence production. I don't have to say that this is because defence budgets are shrinking everywhere, so of course it is in Croatia and it is one trend that will not be stopped so soon. As a result, the EU has decided that this should be put to an end in some way and has found one solution and is going towards a solution that I would call and not only the Europeanisation of defence production. So the goal is to save jobs, the goal is to save the special skills that workers in these companies have. The solutions are designed to establish a standardisation of defence production, certification, favouring dual-use products to apply to European funds. So for the first time, we can say that these types of production of small and medium-sized enterprises will have a greater potential for participation in European funds. I am interested in the fact that Croatia has a special ministry dealing with small and medium-sized enterprises that you are in charge of, what exactly are you and the ministry doing to prepare small and medium-sized enterprises in Croatia for the challenges that await them? What is your position that you have proposed to the government, or will they be left to themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56577	The answer to this question will be given by Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56578	Thank you very much, Mr. Bozinović. Here's just as if you asked me what I wanted, of course we're taking care of small and medium-sized companies in that segment. I'm going to list you with several medium-sized companies, Sesatan-Busch, one of the world's most famous helmet producers, is a middle company innovator, with them I'm traveling to an innovation exhibition in Brussels on Friday, so we're helping these people to position themselves. But more importantly, someone mentioned today that there would be EU funds to be used, and I think that a colleague from the HDZB has not yet opened any competitions. Here, for about 15 days, we will launch the first competition where companies worth up to 250 employees worth 30 million euros will be able to report precisely to companies from production, meaning those you speak of and from tourism. And next year in the budget we also have planned for the next year from 2014 to 2020, 100m euros will be opened for tenders. So this government is doing a lot of work to raise the competitiveness of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs and what we have strategically determined to be just production, to be exactly the tourism of that branch where we expect to make the biggest benefits. As far as another producer is concerned, the HS Produkt from Karlovac is one larger company, but it has a lot of subcontractors below it, meaning it generates a certain value for both small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. And what we are doing in general and in the future we will continue to do, increase the competitiveness of these companies and, on the other hand, try to enable them to be more competitive with the purchase of certain equipment and investment in their production. Here's so short. From next year to 2020, over 100m euros will be a programme that will be able to finance our companies and what is most important, it will be grants, 50% will be given by the entrepreneur, 50% will be given by the European Commission and the Republic of Croatia together in cooperation as we already plan. So we expect a lot of programs and expect a lot of benefits for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56579	This response is reflected by counterpart Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56580	I'm not sure we understand each other. I asked you about specific companies in a concrete context. Context is something that awaits us, in fact, the Prime Minister who, in a month's time, will be talking to the heads of state and government on the subject of small and medium-sized enterprises in defence production. I didn't understand from this answer, except that you're traveling with Mr. Bush, that your ministry is doing anything concrete so that at this stage, those companies that haven't had the opportunity to apply to European funds are organised because that's what your colleagues in Europe do. I don't ask this question for nothing because this public debate exists everywhere, more or less everywhere except in Croatia. Mr. Ministers of programmes such as... professional skills, knowledge structure, knowledge alliances are being opened, a social fund is opening up for people who will not be able to cope with this situation, European social investment funds are opening up, even Horizon 2020 is opening up in part of innovation and research because this is a specific industry that needs to be saved. You need to save those jobs because there won't be enough work for everyone. I'm sorry, but it seems to me that even though you're satisfied with my question that you're actually not in progress with what's going on, unfortunately I have to say it, because I didn't get anything from your answer to that point of view. I'm asking you to step aside, ultimately your boss is going to Brussels in a month, and he's going to have to talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56581	Thank you. We will now hear the question of colleagues of Domagoj Hajdukovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56582	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear President of the Croatian Government, ladies and gentlemen of the Ministers, colleagues and colleagues. I refer my question to the Minister of Environment and Nature, Mr. Dragonovich. Dear Minister, over the past few weeks, we have witnessed the resuscitation of an old topic in Slavonian media, which is the subject of the ZOIS, the joint waste disposal site of Eastern Slavonia, and while in the media there are speculations about who is guilty, legal interpretations of judgments, possible consequences, etc., the scale of the problem remains, and this is that Slavonia has no quality problem with proper disposal of waste. What I'm interested in is that your ministry is working on this particular problem, so also in Slavonia, to ensure a quality way of disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56583	Minister Michael Zmajlovic answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56584	Thank you very much, President. Your Honor, I thank you for asking. You yourself pointed out that the issue of waste management in Croatia is actually a really sad story in the last 10 years, we can say more than that. We have committed ourselves to meeting certain goals, and in order to meet these goals, we should have started working just about 10 years ago, and then they started these affairs that you are talking about today. Of course, it's not in the direct jurisdiction of the Ministry of Environmental and Nature Protection, but what we can do and what we do is put order into the waste management system. And I'd like to correct you, it's not a matter of waste disposal of the scale of waste management. In fact, the word waste management is that it is not garbage, but valuable raw materials that we can return to the system by an effective system as secondary raw materials and we are doing so precisely for the eastern part of Croatia, so to speak. Pannonian Croatia. For the counties that make up this Pannonian Croatia, we are doing a pre-productivity study that will be completed by the end of the year, which should ensure what should be our common goal and these counties, as well as the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to ensure an effective system that will at least cost the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because we must not forget that citizens pay the price of waste management, waste by tonnes, and we are looking for optimal distribution models, so the location of the waste treatment plant and certain technologies that will therefore meet all these goals, to use the valuable components of waste, and only then what remains, which cannot be energy or otherwise recovered to delay. So that's what it's all about, the decision by the end of the year, and then the county, and so is Osijek-Baranja County, will know exactly what direction to develop those projects that we're going to finance from the Structural Funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56585	Is there any obvious? There isn't. Then the question will now be asked by a respected colleague, Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56586	I ask my question to the Prime Minister, and the reason is to buy certain expensive cars for civil servants or other officials. I am interested in asking whether the Government will take a position on this to be not mere populism but responsible for one fact that the profession determines which categories of civil servants need expensive vehicles, and which categories they can serve as written by a journalist in Free Dalmatia, and vehicles at a price of 130 to 150 thousand kuna. So the question is whether the government is going to intervene in this problem and in what way, and my opinion is that we should consult the profession. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56587	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56588	Dear Mr. Representative, I think that the issue has actually been precisely arranged for over a number of years, for more than 15 years, except that a new institute appeared in the meantime, i.e. it ruled the market, which is the Leasing Institute. The cars used to be bought with cash practically, then the loans came, and now the cars are taken on operational lying, actually representing business costs. I don't know if I'm going to disappoint you if I tell you that I'm coming from the good faith that it's regulated, I saw it at the beginning of my term, and later I didn't do it like I wasn't even involved in the process of getting the vehicle that they're driving me into. It's not our private stuff. So, it seems to me that this whole debate in recent weeks has, in fact, had, first of all, a free promotion of several German concerts. I don't know if it's conscious or unconscious. They keep mentioning certain categories of cars. Thank God you didn't, so I invite others to refrain from that categorization because it eventually comes down to free advertising. What are we gonna ride in? I don't know what my insurance says. I don't care if it's German or French. As far as the mayor and local self-government units are concerned, I've heard a lot of well-intentioned advice over the past few weeks to regulate it by law. I don't see it as our authority. Everyone answer to their constituents, and each one of you can legitize in front of your voters in a municipality that has a car if there's money for it, in the city, in the county. The citizens will eventually decide what is appropriate, which is inappropriate. And I can only tell you that as far as I see most cars are actually if there are even cheaper cars. If 130, 140000 kunas cheapest car most of the vehicles we're going to get right now I'm thinking tomorrow at the government contingent of 500 cars for a complete system of state administration, rebuilding the leasing most of the cars are from that, even lower class. Because I looked and I saw, so it's a procedure that goes through the Public Procurement Office, the State Office, the Central Public Procurement Office, and that's it. I don't really know what more to answer. That story keeps coming back. I can only tell you that a year ago and a few days ago, one of the cars in the government's rolling stock that was owned, that is, which expired the warranty period, and the cost of repairing that car so no longer in the Leasing regime came close to this amount of 130 000 kuna. It's terribly expensive. It was a high-class car. That car should have changed a long time ago, taken it to operational leasing if it was already needed and not driven in an old car that in such a situation, which you need to represent the cost. When I went to Venice a month ago to a trilateral meeting with the Italian prime minister and a Slovenian colleague, two cars broke down and the rest of them there, old cars, 400,000-mile-a-mile-a-cars. So, during an official visit to the neighbouring country, 600 km or how many in one direction, 450 km of cars stayed there just as soon as we threw them in the lagoon. So, I want to conclude that local and regional self-government should make their own decisions and legislate themselves towards voters. Leasing is not a car purchase but is a cost that can be smaller and larger. And in the end, that's how it is. Maybe we politicians don't see it sometimes. The car represents a certain ID for politicians to the public. Here I hope that in this answer, I have above all avoided mentioning any branding and branding of cars, which I call on others, and the solution is to be reasonable and abstentioned but it is the operational cost of doing business. It's costing, and that's how it'll always be regrettable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56589	There's no obvious. Is there? There isn't. Okay. Then let's move on to the next question. Dear colleague Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56590	Thank you, Vice President. I refer my question to Minister Linic. Your Honor, three and a half months ago, I've referred you to a representative question you haven't answered me to this day, so here I am asking you to do it this way. What you have taken as Minister of Finance regarding Mrs. Vishnja Felker, head of the Tax Administration of Rijeka, who has been reluctant to allow more than 200 million kunas of tax debt to go into oblivion by guessing individuals as well as members of his family's ropes. And have you ordered any investigative actions related to the determination of the origin of Mrs. Felker and asked her to make up for any of these 200 million kunas for negligence and non-execution of labour which is a crime. The link between Electromechanika and Jadrolinija, offshore company in the Czech Republic, the application of the bankruptcy manager of Electromechanics to the State's Attorney's Office, obtaining millions of jobs in competitions for state-owned enterprises, regardless of the millions' tax debts, are just some of the things that should drive us all to responsibility, and especially you to principle, action, and responsibility. Entrepreneurs and citizens in Croatia have been rewarded for tax evasion, and tax collectors fall for these millions. Minister, I really ask you an open and honest answer when and how the Croatian budget will begin to fill and from those who are transparently criminally poor under the cover of a job in the Ministry of Finance itself and protected by tax inspectors' IDs and when for you the ministers will indeed be the same and the same for every kuna we did not, and we should have paid in the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56591	The Minister of Finance Slavko Linic answers questions, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56592	I thank you for your question, Madam Representative. For irregularities in Rijeka's position, the leadership of the outpost was still replaced during the year and all sanctions measures were taken due to irresponsible work and under-quality work. Your question concerns me as the head of the regional office. After your question, we also gave internal surveillance to see if her personal responsibility was in it. So when we're done with the find, I'll give you an answer. As Minister of Finance, I'm trying to remove all weaknesses in the work of the IRS. Tomorrow at the government, you have a brand-new proposal for the IRS. Tax administrations that will only have 5 regional offices, precisely because we very clearly separate what is the responsibility of the central office in which we will deal with the work of our tax employees through internal supervision, their quality and also state and international obligations under tax laws. The regionals will essentially oversee all taxpayers and try to set the principles of transparency, reliability and what is important in a uniform manner towards all taxpayers. Also, we will significantly reduce the number of outposts because exactly the huge number of outposts was the reason for unequal treatment I would say possible abuses and failures of individuals. Because then they were far less outposts than a major outpost can provide. Therefore, as finance minister, we try to raise both responsibility, control and supervision by reorganisations of the IRS. I believe that the proposal will be referred to the Parliament, so if necessary, we will try to give certain answers. The truth is before the Ministry of Finance's leadership is now the final assessment of the conduct of individual leaders in this year and I believe there will be further changes in that section, so we will see what will result from all actions. So, apart from our very, very responsible efforts to collect Croatia's claims for all tax revenues, we seek to raise and responsibility for the employees themselves because it is necessary to establish a correct relationship between the Tax Administration and the taxpayer. I must say that a large contribution to this work has also been made by the newly established department for large taxpayers for the reason that we are now very seriously entering the balance sheet positions and the way in which the data is presented because it is obvious that in that part there was the same huge number of unpaid tax obligations. What I want to say very clearly very often is the word "tax coercion." The government that has given three reprogrammes, the government that has started responsibly with pre-determined procedures to enable rehabilitation and in particular the financial recovery of the private sector does not have a tax audit, but taxes will be paid in time and in amounts corresponding to the balance sheet positions of each company.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56593	Is there any obvious? Yeah. Representative Nancy Tyrelli, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56594	I thank the Ministers for their response and I congratulate you on this intention to reorganize the IRS and hope it will be successful. I would ask you, however, to answer me the question that has been raised in your ministry since 1 August of this year and we will receive a concrete answer and what I am very interested in in all of this is sanctions for certain officials who still do not do their job. We come to an absurd situation that on the one hand we have entrepreneurs and crafts whose facilities are being closed, stamped for not issuing an account of 10 kuna or less, and on the other hand we have a situation where this same budget that failed to charge or charged 10 kuna we choke or charge with 200 million kuna that was not charged by one employee in the Tax Administration. And I think that these are the situations that we need to put an end to and those sanctions and those responsibilities of individuals because the Tax Administration is made by people and every man must be responsible for what he does in the Tax Administration, in your ministry or in any other ministry in the same way and under the same conditions as any citizen of the Republic of Croatia, especially when it comes to the state budget. As long as we don't establish a balance of responsibility, I'll call it that, so we all fit the same rules, it won't be good because we'll always catch those 10 kunas and, parallel to that 10 kuna, lose millions and millions of other kunas that were here but we haven't been able to keep them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56595	Thank you. I now call on my colleague Gordan Jandrokovic to ask a question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56596	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm referring the question to the Prime Minister. Mr. Prime Minister, the European Commission has announced new autumn forecasts for GDP growth, public debt deficits for EU member states for 2013, 2014 and 2015. And Croatia as a new member is covered by this forecast and estimates for 2013, so GDP decline 0.7%, 5.4% deficit, public debt 59.6%; for 2014. 0.5% GDP growth, 6.5% deficit, 64.7% public debt; for 2015. 1.2% GDP growth, 6.2% deficit and 69% public debt. Therefore, the European Commission forecasts a decline in 2013 and a weak low GDP growth for 2014 and 2015, regardless of the favourable forecasts in our neighbourhood in the environment. You are well aware and aware that such growth will not ensure an increase in the number of employees, nor the growth of living standards, and unfortunately what you have tried to say in some of your answers is a significant increase in revenue in our budget. So you will end your GDP mandate in 2004, at the same time as the European Commission forecasts a further increase in the public debt deficit, which suggests that the European Commission believes that your government does not have reform potential, reform character and that it will not be more serious to address the most important problems of Croatian society, and this is an important emphasis unlike counterpart Linic, I believe that it was based on the work of your government in the first two years and not on what was before. I add the World Bank's assessment of the fall in business opportunities for Croatia to 89th in Kosovo. So, I'm interested in your comment on the European Commission's prognosis, did you expect it, did you consider it realistic? Please, one more sentence. Or, as in the case of a EUROSTAT forecast in the number of young people who are unemployed, do you think that assessment is incorrect? What is your assessment if you consider it and what are the measures you will take? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56597	Thank you. Stick to the agreed time. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56598	So mostly the data is known, we know what the situation is, we know what the forecasts of growth are. The truth God in the environment doesn't know what you think and you mean by the environment, but in our immediate environment, the forecast is similar. Slovenia, Hungary, Italy, this forecast is as thin as you would say. But growth is still some kind of growth. As far as public debt is concerned, the public debt is 64% and even if we cut the deficit of the state budget to 3%, which is impossible at this point and everyone knows it, it's completely so it's not any brainer, it's clear it would still be a deficit that some source has to finance. Of course under the conditions of growth from 1% to 2% and deficits of 3% that hole is these scissors are much less. I will now not say your deficits but the deficits of 2009, 2010, 2011 and economic downturn that is unsustainable. And that's why public debt has grown to still undramatic 64%, which is somehow considered a risk threshold, but that's a lot for every country that doesn't have economic growth. And economic growth, whatever the good news was. It's healthy to be thin, it's important that it's not too skinny, so any economic growth in this situation we'll consider good news and a shift. As you can see in this forecast of the European Commission, there is a trend in social product growth. We must not make peace because it is not a good reconciliation but it is necessary to face the fact that years of enormous growth have passed. This growth in Croatia had its structural problems, it was not based on sound foundations, it was a growth in foreign borrowing and consumption but not natural consumption based on some economic growth and on its own production and exports, but simply on relatively cheap acquisition of other people's money, other people's accumulations. As the first year went by when the crisis came and when the economic downturn was dramatic, you know in 2009, that drop was 6% began to accumulate major deficits. And that's all wisdom. And those debts should be paid back. Therefore, we can now be politically outsmart here and move the ball, read EUROSTAT data, realistically evaluate them or iron them, you can choose what you want, which is your way, but I tell you the debts should be paid back, the system should be reformed. And that this government has reform potential. What you said about the Commission saying is that the Commission is not saying it anywhere and no one has said that the government has no reform potential, the only question is what is the objective. If the goal is to have a 5% growth rate and a zero deficit, I have to tell you it's not a real goal. If the goal is to have a deficit of up to 3% and some growth rates, that's progress and that's our goal right now. We won't promise fairy tales, that's where you and I are different. So it's a burden and a price we're willing to pay and that's how we deal with politics. The fiscal rule at this point is not real, it's too high an Olympic norm, someone mentioned today that is not feasible. Unfortunately, this government, or the previous government, introduced this very demanding rule when global economies began to go down. There's no one who'd be able to keep himself in those frames, realistically, gone. This year's deficit will be high, I will not now quote here how much the European Commission's deficit was real at the time you were in power, it was big, it was too big but it didn't go into reform. What we're doing may not be enough but it's a lot more than the last one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56599	Explanation of the answer of colleague Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56600	Thank you very much. Well, I find it very interesting the way you talk about the economy at all. There have been a lot of questions today about the economic situation in Croatia, about your plans, about getting out of the crisis. You have no interest in solving these problems at all. You define the situation, it is difficult, it will be difficult, you also sent this answer to Croatian citizens by 2015. What the European Commission says is true. We will not reduce the deficit or the standard of living will be better, the public debt will grow, so the public debt was not that at the time of HDZ rule was significantly lower, so it grows with your economic fiscal policy. That's true, and they're exact figures. But you know what I'd like? I would like that passion you show for ideological issues, that rigidity, that exclusion that you show in imposing your worldview, that force you're defending Perkovic or the Cyrillic in Vukovar that you're fighting against the referendum on behalf of the family, that I would like that energy, that power, that passion and that desire to show in solving economic issues. Show that you know how to do something in the economy and not keep repeating and opening ideological battles. It is clear that you need to cover your incompetence and ignorance, but Croatian people cannot live out of it. You are ideologically exclusive and completely uninterested and unable to resolve the life issues of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56601	The next question will be asked by counterpart Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56602	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question to my colleague, or to the Minister of the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning, and I am glad to be part of a coalition that tells the truth and only the truth. The most important liquids of modern i.e. The Western democracies, Madam Minister, are the safety of individual freedom. In order for a man to feel safe and free, he also needs a roof over his head, an apartment in the city, or a house in the country. Simply to feel free and surely everyone needs a safe home. Due to decades of accumulated public debt and economic devastation, we have today as an unpleasant consequence of increasingly poor citizens and citizens. Economic opportunities, or troubles, are currently most affected by young and newly founded families. As individuals today, young families can, in the simplest, cheapest, safest way to get to the roof over their heads, whether they are renting, buying real estate, and what the Ministry of Construction and Spatial Planning is doing on this plan, for example. with the POS program.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56603	Minister Anka Dark-Taritash answers the question. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56604	Thank you very much. Thank you very much for this question to the esteemed representative Blažekovic for the simple reason that I have the opportunity to answer what this government does for one of the most important issues in our citizens' lives, and that is the problem of housing. So this government has done a lot, it does a lot, and it will continue. In addition to the POS programme that we all know we are developing the POS+ programme and the PON programme. POS+ is one program that has been since summer this year, and the PON program is the rental program of apartments. For the POS programme you've all heard, from 2001 to 2011, a little less than 6,000 apartments were built. At this time, we are building some 600 apartments from the POS programme, of which 330 in Zagreb, and we have issued permits to build the following buildings in Zagreb, Split for the simple reason that there is a great interest, the interest of young families to resolve their housing issue. Faced with the fact that in one hour there are many unbuilt apartments in the market, although the number of these unbuilt apartments, which our public is mentioned is much larger than real, we launched the POS+ programme in May this year. From August to this day, 153 apartments have been sold. So it's expected at the annual level of POS+ 400 apartments. Up to 400 apartments, young families will be able to resolve their housing issues under more favourable conditions. And that most important program I would say at this point because it turns out that young people are not creditworthy, but we absolutely need to give the opportunity to solve their living issue, it's a program that we call PON. What does this program mean? We were in the summer with 78 apartments that we had built, which stood empty for us, with which it, failed to sell, launched a program of renting apartments. We rented those 80 apartments within a week, there were 700 demands. So it turns out that Croatia needs to develop another programme that we have completely forgotten, which is the rental program of apartments. Very seriously, very structuredly we set out in the design of a program that would allow this large amount of apartments that are built, which are located on the market, not to find their buyer, to allow them to go into the program, we call it working PON, so the rental program that we will present by the end of the year, and next year we will start that programme. So in conclusion, this government very sensitively knows that one of the important life issues is the problem of housing and solves through three programs that all three are functioning and all three are current: POS, POS+ and PON. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56605	The next question is asked by a colleague named Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56606	Thank you very much, Vice President. I refer the question to Minister Vrdoljak, Resolute Minister and Chief Negotiator, and the normal question concerns INA, although the INA issue has already been the issue today. My question is what we can realistically expect this government to do about INA. Which we can realistically expect. You entered into negotiations with MOL with the aim of amending the contract on management rights. Apparently, we have the possibility of a first buy, whether it's true or not, I don't think it's too safe. But I'm asking if we know, if we find any means to buy, what we're going to do with that INA, which is our strategy around that INA. Do you have a strategy that if we become majority owners and buy INA, what was given in some way to read from your performance? Have you contacted foreign investors, have you contacted domestic investors, funds, which is realistically possible in this regard? We sold the INA in time for 500, or 505 million dollars, now reportedly the value of MOL's shares is about 20 billion kuna, and the oil fields in Syria are speculative about $20 billion, and hopefully one day these oil fields will be available. Last year, INA won $1.9 billion in profits. Now I'm asking you, are we by any chance a state that will be completely energy-dependent on imports or are we going to return INA to our property? I stress the question because we are getting contradictory views from this same government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56607	Minister of Economy Ivan Vrdoljak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56608	Thank you very much, Vice President. So let's do three questions. It is realistic to meet, which is realistic to meet strategic, national, energy goals. It can be fulfilled in many ways, of course. But we will not step down from that, otherwise they will have to do business and have to do business under the laws of the Republic of Croatia and in the interest of the national energy strategy. We in this region with those other projects that we're going to be exploiting and research are going to be the least dependent country on imports of energy regardless of who owned the INA was that state, it was some other partner with the state or an existing partner with the state. We provide our sources for both our consumption and our regional consumption from sources that are our wealth independent of INA ownership. And the INA strategy must be based on that it is necessary to maintain industrial production in its refineries, that it is necessary to be an energy leader as it has always been in... So in the sales network not in Croatia, in Croatia it's certainly what we've always had. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In Croatia, the dominant INA has always been and always will be. But we must concentrate on our influence in the region, in Slovenia, in Bosnia, in Kosovo, in Serbia, in Hungary. And it is proof that INA today has the capacity to invest through oil processing through future sources of gas and oil energy that will be in Croatia, which will be invested not in a way that has not been invested in the last 15 years but much different. So we're going to get to these new sources and INA is going to run regional policy. I just want to send one message. There is no energy national policy that thinks it will end energy policy in a way that will close within its country will not succeed. Energy policy is at least a regional but well-involved and global issue. This means INA must concentrate on the regional market, INA must find strategically large, global partners that will allow INA to be a national pride, to be a vertically integrated Croatian company with its brand, to secure industrial production, protect its employees and ensure the realisation of national energy targets, which is as low as possible dependence on imports, as cheap as possible energy and secure supply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56609	An obvious colleague of Mladen Novak's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56610	Thank you very much. I must admit that you're contradictory again with these attitudes we've just heard. I was making some notes. INA has the capacity, INA should be a national pride, but you haven't answered what our strategy is we'll buy it, we won't buy it, what if we buy it will be or won't be. This is all you've come up with, this is all such a list of good wishes, the good wishes that I believe here, I don't believe, I'm sure we all want here. But the fact is that the prime minister said it was a business adventure, just thinking about it. Today, even the term that it is gambling was used. Now I ask you whether you're a gambler or a business adventurer or you hinted at that possibility in your actions or you are, or you're going to bow to this attitude. We get two different positions from the same government. That's what I'm talking about. By the way, it is my personal opinion that the biggest business adventure is the sale of what was mentioned earlier by Croatia's insurance and Croatian postal bank and the monetization of highways. It's my business adventure, and otherwise business or political adventure was the support of this government seems to me the greatest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56611	The right to ask a representative's question now gets a colleague, Tanya Wrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56612	Thank you very much. I will ask Mr. Tihomir Jakovina, Minister of Agriculture. Mr. Jakovina, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is making great efforts to develop, hire and attract investments in the Republic of Croatia. However, as a representative, I come in contact with many citizens, potential investors who would like to encourage a production or other type of investment but still face a number of difficulties. One example is often cited as difficulties stemming from the Law on Forests, i.e. the problem of re-use of forest land for production and other investment activities. So I'm asking if you're planning on proposing changing the forest law or something else on this matter to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56613	Let's hear the response of the Minister of Agriculture, Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56614	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear fellow Vrbat, I cannot fully agree with you that the main obstacle and the problem of investment is actually detachment of forests and forest land. And I will be very responsible to say, in fact, that the much greater problem is the ineffectiveness and slowness of the system, i.e. state bureaucracy, further incoordination between ministry resolutions and state administration bodies, but also the slowness and unhappiness of local and regional self-government. When we talk about the ineffectiveness and slowness of state bureaucracy, then I'll say a few figures. Only 2011. The Directorate for Forestry, Hunting and Wood Industry, whose narrow portfolio had almost 9,000 items, whether administrative or non-administrative items. In 2013, it was about 6900. I'm talking about the total number of cases that I'm not saying that in 2011 we found 12 boxes of items in the handover that weren't even arranged at all, requests of different or similar parts of which were precisely due to a statement of interest in the investments that were standing in the basement in cardboard boxes. But it's much more important than that case resolution information. In 2011, the solution was 54.1% while in 2013 we raised it to 75.8%. So, with different work, mode and mode, you can also lift the speed of solving objects. If we're going to talk specifically, three large objects and we're talking about Biograd, three large investments by Biograd at sea, Solta and Losinj, which have been standing in drawers for years and we're talking about dozens and hundreds of millions of kuna investments that were to be made have been resolved in just a few months. We're not happy with that either. When we talk about the very existing Forest Act, he has certain shortcomings. Back a few months we worked in a very respectable commission where everyone was involved... from science, profession to users themselves and employees of my ministry and institutions. We made a great bill of law, we harmonised it, which is very important with the Law on Spatial Planning, Construction and other things, and it is addressed to the Government's procedure. By the end of the year, you will have a new law in this House, and this law has led to further improvements in the promotion of the investment climate, especially in this part of the acceleration of the percentage of detachment because we have some steps that have slowed down, and that is, above all, that the resolution ministry gives an opinion on spatial-planning documentation which is usually positive in the second, third step when it is necessary to issue a negative opinion and gives certain fences and creates problems we said the moment when the resolution ministry through its expert bodies is positive that, by adopting the spatial-planning documentation itself or the lower lines of the plans of the space arrangement, it is possible for the construction itself. Also, some of the news in the new law is the definition of forests with special purpose, i.e. the possibility of building especially for this part of forest land that does not make the forest in nature. All in all, the new law will be much better, much more efficient, and by the end of the year it will hopefully be adopted in this House of Commons. And we still have to work together on what's more important, which is the efficiency of the entire system. So far, if I can grade with a good grade, I'm sure by the end of our term and according to the data that we're going to present on the solution of the subject that it's going to be 4+. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56615	Do you want to be obvious? No, I don't. Then the 30th parliamentary question today is asked by counterpart Melita Mulic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56616	I would like to thank the Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My question is for the Minister of Science, Education and Sports, which refers to the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee in the context of the financing of Sports Television. I am interested in whether the financing of sports television was transparent in accordance with the law and regulations, which showed the findings of the Sport Inspectorate and why the Government of the Republic of Croatia gave a negative opinion on the work of the Croatian Olympic Committee for 2012?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56617	Let's listen to Minister Željko Jovanovic's reply.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56618	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I will try to briefly sum up the answer to this question of yours, soon the Parliament will have a quality opportunity and with a long time to discuss all segments of the programme-financial report of the HOO, which is known to have given a negative opinion on the proposal of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports. We often hear a mantra that a particular head of the ministry or a certain company did not know, did not see, did not hear, and therefore is not responsible for everything that has happened in his jurisdiction. I don't agree to that answer, so I hear, I see, and if I don't understand something, I'm looking for answers. And there is the whole point of the negative opinion that the ministry and the Croatian government gave on the PDO programme-financial report. So, based on everything we've seen in HoO's work in his report, we can conclude that it wasn't done according to the principles of sound financial management, which is economic, efficiency and efficiency. And that's all. So we've been negatively obvious and given a kind of reminder to the HoO that the funds allocated from the state budget must be used economically, efficiently and efficiently. After the Croatian government gave a negative opinion, there was a case that I would best describe with the example of a small child in a primary school who received a negative grade and came home to both mom and dad and started crying that his teacher did not love him and gave him a unit. These were precisely the reactions that came from the HoO's leadership without giving any too much explanation for the comments that came from the Sport Inspectorate. Therefore, responsible here in front of all of you, in front of the Croatian public, I argue that the negative report by the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and the Croatian Government is not a personal attack on the heads of the HoO, it is not a political attack on the HoO, but it is only a job that I, as Minister, must do according to fiscal responsibility, to monitor whether the funds from the state budget are being spent in accordance with the rules of responsibility, efficiency and purpose. When it comes to sports television, it's a project that was launched by the HOO. It should be said that Croatia is the only country in the world in which such television exists, which is already based on one questionnaire on whether such sports television can survive? So sports television is needed, of course. Why wouldn't it be necessary, why couldn't I and let us watch a lot of different sports programs on our television but certainly not by betting horses, racing horses most often visible on that television. Therefore, sports television has been established and has done business the following over the past three years. So, in 2010 she was doing short work income was 33 kuna, 2011 million and 292 thousand kuna, then 2012. 4 million 949 thousand kuna and in the first quarter of this year 958 thousand kuna, while at the same time spending are dear gentlemen 2010. 70,000 kuna, 2011. 16 million kuna, 2012. 28 million kuna. Therefore, by the end of the year it will likely also amount to that amount. What does that mean? This means that sports television ended in 2011 with 15 million kuna losses, 2012 total loss is 38 million kuna and 2013 will end with 59 million kuna. So, HOO with its own income can actually do what it wants and we don't interfere, but with the revenues coming from the state budget, which is 115 million kuna in this year we want clear answers as to how these money is spent. Intruder: Minister's time is up. Here I am ending... [[Intruding Stazic: Thank you Minister. If their own revenues are sports television...]] 15 million kuna, meaning from the Croatian Olympic Committee's own income, cannot cover this loss, which is estimated by this trend reach 111 million kuna [[Intruder: Ministers.]] and thus eat the entire budget for Croatian athletes. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56619	Would you like to comment on that? No, I don't. We move on to the next issue of counterpart Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56620	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My question to the respected Mr. Hajdash Doncic concerns the practical application of the existing Law on Maritime Good and Seaports, or practices in the business of state port administrations. By virtue of the Law on maritime goods and seaports, all shipowners who are on board or unloading cargo or passengers are bound to pay a fee for the use of a long meter of coast, the same fee is calculated on the basis of the amount of cargo which is loading or landing and in the practice so far very strange, the state port administrations have unequaled levels of these charges. What does that mean exactly? This means that state port administrations as state institutions that are under the auspices of the single ministry are based on the decisions of their administrative councils, and are in fact tampering with the competition in the Republic of Croatia. The regulation of the different amount and the fees of certain ports shall be more or less competitive. I will give a concrete example, for example by a ton of scattered cargo, the Port Authority in Luci Sibenik prescribed a 0.6-euro fee per tonne while Luka Rijeka prescribed a ton of 0.3 euros at the same time. This, in particular, means that for the transport of a ship that has 30 thousand tonnes of load capacity, a difference is created in the start of 10 thousand euros to the ship's higher cost and that is the handicap generated by state institutions. I consider this a illogical situation and ask Mr. Minister whether, through the adoption of a new law on maritime good and seaports and sublegislative acts, it will bring this situation into order and create assumptions that state port administrations are charging an equal fee to foreign shipmen and thus do not interfere with the competition between Croatian ports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56621	Minister Sinisha Hajdash Doncic answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56622	I appreciate the question. So there are three charges that state port administrations charge but my answer must be very complex. Why? As the State port policy itself or those basic fees paid depends partly on competitive advantages, in part on comparative advantages, which means that according to the existing law, the administrative council, although there is the same algorithm, can make specific decisions on the level of the fee. However, as in any other form or mode of transport, we can therefore compare either with air or with rail permanent users can also receive discount directors. In particular, the comparison between Luke Rijeka and Luke Sibenik cannot be the same because I am also saying because of the links to the rear and because of the traffic connection, they cannot be specialized in the same load. And generally it depends on what's called... /The speaker speaks English.//...or I'll tell the logistics of the generally delivered chain. But next week, however, I believe the new Law on Maritime Good and Seaports is also going into public debate, and therefore all interested stakeholders will be able to participate in quality participation and help all together to achieve a perhaps better solution than they are now. But it's generally about economics where, in principle, a lot depends on trends, for example, on cycles. And also look at the business world and business decisions is more than administrative, everything is prone to change and change. However, since the postulates that competition and even between national ports in certain cases must exist. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56623	Would you like to comment? Yeah. A colleague of Baranovic's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56624	Well, Mr. Secretary, it's exactly what you said. There must be a fair competition and in this way leading this policy of the state institution directly disrupting the competition, and I will try to explain to you why it is so. When we moved to the market economy of Luka Rijeka, there were about a few million tonnes of cargo in the face of the odds against other Croatian ports. A relatively similar skeleton of the port administration relatively similar to the costs of the port administration and it is clear that it could give dumped altitudes to charges compared to other ports. And in this way directly leads to the disabled position of all other ports in the Adriatic coast because the concrete difference in the cargo of a 30 thousand-ton ship is, I stress 10 thousand euros. In the current recession times, freight shortages are looking at every thousand euros, and this is not correct towards other ports. Very similar to the state of government and other charges, both for the berth of fishing vessels in the county port administrations and for the berth of other tourism-oriented ships. State institutions must have a very realistic legal framework, uniform criteria and not interfere with the competition. This is what is expected to be fully justified by our businessmen to resolve the rule of law. The fact is that you inherited such a mess, but it is also a fact that businessmen of people who live off the load and transport of cargo and passengers expect uniform criteria and a fair match in which they will be positioned better or worse at the price and quality of the service. But if the handicap creates them in the beginning an unsolved situation in the state institutions, then it's not a fair match. I expect and speak on their behalf that you as Minister with your team and through the adoption of a new law on maritime goods and seaports, but also through the adoption of sublegal acts, will solve these anomalies that have existed for years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56625	Thank you. Before moving on to the next question one notice. The chairman of the Justice Committee, respected colleague Josip Kregar, convenes a session of his committee immediately after this current morning in Hall 133, which is the hall of Stjepan Radic. And now I'm giving my word to the Vice President of the House, the esteemed Zeljko Reiner, and I urge him to ask his representative question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56626	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer the question to the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Milanovic. Although all of you tended to keep the media quiet by keeping strictly supervised and complete censorships or at least autocensorships so that, of course, no letter was published, the ruling coalition at last week's session here and the vote in the House on Laws experienced a final debacle. Of course, the public hasn't heard anything about this ruse. Namely, when it was voted on the re-amendment of the Law on Scientific Activity and Higher Education, which the Parliament wanted to withdraw the power to propose candidates for the National Council of Science and the Committee on Ethics in Science and then give it to the Government, not only the opposition representatives had rebelled but also the representatives of the ruling and your parties voted mostly against Minister Jovanovic's proposal. As a result of the persistent and blind insistence on this poor government proposal of this law, in spite of the fact that the academic community has declared against it because some other articles harshly violate the Constitution-guaranteed university autonomy, in the follow-up vote, the vote still by the ruling majority, a law that is contradictory in some articles and is completely inconclusive and thus all of this leads to absurdity. I have no doubt that you will soon send it back to the Assembly for repair, probably again by emergency procedure. I ask if you will continue, I am sorry that Minister Jovanovic went away, will you continue to support him unreservedly to bring such a self-inflicted position and representatives of your coalition, that things in science, education, sports are solved by breaking over their knees, and those who think otherwise are silenced, inspections are sent on the basis of actual or imaginary, but in any case anonymous reports, etc. I am particularly interested in whether the Government will continue to send to the Parliament without regard to the comments from the public debate under the urgent procedure of dozens of failed laws that you must then change for a short time by creating a complete legal uncertainty in the country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56627	Thanks, buddy. Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers your question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56628	Dear fellow, here I am expressing a protest because the biased and unobstructed media have not published what I said here will not, so they will not, that in two years you only had two legal proposals in front of the HDZ Club. Why don't they publish it? Probably because they're corrupt or maybe because they don't care. Maybe I got it wrong that it was important. So you would also interpret the lack of interest of the media over which you are gathering so desperately, that they have not published something that is important to you and perhaps important to your circle of people, and perhaps it is not as important to the public as it is that I have been able to monitor you about the technique. So the main dispute is whether it proposes something to the government or parliament. You, as an experienced politician, minister, academic, will recently again and head of services and departments at the hospital, know very well that this is less important politically. As far as I'm concerned, since you mentioned that subject, I don't see any difference. The Parliament, the government, anyway. Let the Parliament or the Government propose, I see nothing of importance. Since you haven't said anything about anything else specifically, you've kept it at the general points and insinuations that it's not democratic, that it violates the autonomy of the university, that people are being sent inspections. The inspections are doing their job. I've personally had a proper relationship with Mr. Matesh for years. When you insinuate in such a way as to send someone sports inspections, that's what you said. To whom they are sent, the Russian Olympic Federation. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56629	Please don't throw it away. So let the prime minister answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56630	Therefore, when you have concrete objections other than general political disqualifications, we can talk again, and as far as the only topic that you have specifically talked about, which is the ingenuity of appointing, or ingenuity to propose the composition of the National Council, Government, Parliament, so explain to me at all why some officials are proposed by the Government and some Parliament. It's not crucial, so it's not crucial for the quality of the source. This must eventually pass the filter of the Croatian Parliament, right. Therefore, if the government proposes bad, corrupt political friends, you are here to warn the Croatian public and the media of their unambiguous reporting and of the government's poor proposal. It can't go past the public while you're here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56631	The answer is commented by Vice President Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56632	Thank you very much. Of course, I didn't get an answer to the main thing I asked, but I didn't expect it because in the end we didn't get an answer on much more important issues in the economy. By the way, I didn't even say a word about sports in the first place. My part of the question was focused on the urgency of the procedure. Namely, according to my data since you came to power 40 times you've sent the laws over the last two years multiple times to repair because every time you suggested something that was wrong, then voted your majority in the Parliament, then you realized that you had made a mistake and had to change it again, 40 times. And so it will happen this time, for the third time in a few months, the law will be sent for the necessary repair. For the last time, he was changing among other things because he claimed that if he did not change, I quote, the pay rectors would have to fall heavily. In order to reduce their salaries by 25 per cent to 30 per cent after the rectors did not support the amendments to the law, the government's decision to retaliate. But it's not the only law that you've changed like that, so here's a fresh example, let's say the Mandatory Health Insurance Act. You've sent it five times recently since you came to power to repair again by emergency procedure because you must correct the incompetence and sloppyness of the previous version that left more than 8,000 regular students without health insurance. What I asked, however, was whether you would support Minister Jovanovic, the minister, who, for example, quoted again, spoke of the plots of black Mark, black mantium and black what that black Marko should also have a certain amount of gray matter to understand. Do you support that? Do you support the view that the Constitutional Court is acting as spokeswoman for smaller stakeholders, whether you support the fact that, as it was said this year, Cardinal Bozanic may be of your government declared a Grinch who stole Christmas, etc. ...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56633	I thank my colleagues, Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56634	Or teachers and scientists in schools will be declared quitters when you've already declared doctors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56635	Comrade Reiner, as Vice President of the Parliament, you should appreciate that we must stick to the Rules of Procedure. ... The next question will be asked by a respected colleague, Kresimir Bubalo. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56636	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I refer my question to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, Mr Milanovic. In fact, I often talk to producers from Slavonia and Baranja, and I must admit that they were pleased with the Financial Business Act and the pre-profit settlement, Articles 11 and 12, payment deadline 60 days. But it is evident from the talks with them that from ministries to private companies or trade chains it is not being met. These days, however, they are being sent an addendum to the purchase and sale of goods. Some of the trade chains, here as well as Plodines, have their contract proposals, where the buyer is obliged to pay the goods within 90 days, where they are conditioned that the claim is a free trade credit until the closure of the debt and working relationship is without a deadline. Nothing's changed, we're back on the trade, and our farmer's from the one he's been planting while he's charging the goods for 400 days. I would like to ask your question and your answer as to how many legal persons or individuals have been punished so far who have avoided this law and paid within 60 days. What will you do to start obeying the law and paying within 60 days? And whether someone from the ministries or Croatian public enterprises is being punished in largely state-owned property so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56637	Prime Minister Zoran Milanovic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56638	To a specific question you will get a concrete answer, of course a written answer because I can't think of it. I believe that, I'm sure the data exists and I believe that the figures are also in line with the intention of the law. But this situation with the one that was before, we'll agree we can't compare. It's either 60 days or it's 65 days, 70 days or 1,000 days that's a big difference. There's more order in this country in the last two years. There's a way to make a mistake, it can be exaggerated, but it's never been done before. In tourism and in catering where VAT has been reduced this year, you have more traffic for how many billions of kunas. What does that mean? I have to say again as an example, that there's more order or that earlier it's been conscious to tolerate unhappiness and concealment of income. Is that tax terror, cult, press? It's my turn, elemental order. One day we may function as Austria in which people don't actually issue bills on the hills. He plays on trust to a large extent and no one cheats. Unfortunately, we have this problem, far from being the worst. We have very often too low an opinion of ourselves. But look, so you don't use this for a speech right now, you're gonna get a written answer to this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56639	The answer is commented by my colleague Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56640	Thank you very much. Article 88 defines that legal persons follow their penalties from 10000 to millions of kuna or physically from 1000 to 50,000 kuna. But you should always start by looking at what's happening on the market, that the law doesn't apply. But we're going back to the trade after 180 days which is certainly difficult for our producers. What also makes us feel on the ground is that the healthy part of the economy is killing them from pre-war deals and they're just exhausting those good producers that are stable. Looking at the government deficit of 14 billion, and if their obligations from the Ministry of Health to others are unsettled, we are certainly concerned about that reason, but I expect a written answer. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56641	Thank you. We move on to the next question that will be asked by colleague Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56642	Your Honor, I am referring my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. So, I am personally interested in when the first programmes for the state's lease will begin. So, on the ground, agricultural producers, as far as I know as a representative who's been circulatory around the field, are looking forward to the announcement of the competition, and your ministry seems to have announced that soon after the adoption of the law, the competition should start, or a major land reform that we all look forward to. The question is, or the question is, where is it stuck? Because as far as I know, the law was passed at the end of spring. We're already at the beginning of the winter threshold. So, where it got caught up in law enforcement, that is, in the publication of competitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56643	Minister of Agriculture, quiet Jacobine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56644	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear fellow Roman. It's not stuck anywhere. The land reform takes place and back 12 months or 15 months on it is the most serious thing when we talk about the body that works it is the Agency for Agricultural Land which, by 2009 had its own bodies, its employees, its costs but didn't really start working until mid-year, i.e. until June 2012. You yourself said that the new Agricultural Land Act was passed in the spring of this year. After the adoption of the law itself, and this is the law that seemed to me to be the longest debate in this honored home in this year longer than the budget itself was evident from the law that it took 15 sublegal acts or serious regulations and to implement and call new competitions and we did so. But the Agricultural Land Agency didn't just do that. In this year two, three months almost 16200 ha were placed in all those open competitions and procedures under the old law. The more important thing is that since the new law was passed, we have put almost 51,000 ha into office for temporary disposal for 5 years. These are all our farmers who have had their own confirmations or worked land and have not had or had contracts that have expired and have not been able to support these regulations, land use in the provisional category for up to 5 years, until the hearings have been examined they are in some way equally placed, i.e. placed in an equal position to all other farmers and can enter and submit their requests for support. In accordance with the Law on Agricultural Land, which was before this almost 4100 ha, we also put 36 tenders in place and put them in the form of concessions. So it was done, and what's most important after the alignment and preparation of all these sublegal acts started with the first competitions. Yesterday the first five competitions were announced. It is for the town of Beli Manastir, Cerovje, Jagodnjak, Prince's vineyards and Lovas. We expect to publish new tenders from week to week, but I also have to mention the large and responsibility of local self-government if I said in a long debate in this House on the law itself, I think a number of colleagues and colleagues were disputed whether local administration and self-government would lose the ability to decide participation at their disposal or otherwise, so there was a question of whether one or two representatives in the commission? We have appreciated and done this, but I can tell you that it is a terrible problem that units of local self-government who are even more paid because 35% of the amount of the rent that goes into the budget of local administrations have not shown even close interest in preparing and doing their part of the job, preparing that part of the documentation for the publication of the tender itself. Of some municipalities, we received a sheet of paper according to the Agricultural Land Agency, on which it was written, asking that on behalf of the municipality and that you call a tender for land availability. Although they know what their rights are and what their obligations are, and for this significant means they get in relation to the previous law... Now 30% of the fee belongs to the lease units of local self-government. [[The speaker hits the microphone, he doesn't understand.]] We've done a whole set of educations, field workshops, and we've met our agricultural producers about preparing an economic programme, about how to run, about showing their initiative to those units of local self-government that don't do their job, and I'm sure we're going to have more and more competitions from week to week. When you mention land reform, I can announce that in the first quarter of this House, and before that, normally in the government's procedure, there will be a law on cohesion that is seriously involved. A law that we haven't had in the past 20 years and a law that will actually make the surface and the rounding of agricultural holdings as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56645	Thank you, Minister. Time's up. Any comments? No comment. We're moving on to the next question. A colleague of Romana Jerkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56646	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Health, Professor. Rajka Ostović. Mr. Minister, you've announced changes in the health system, and above all, in the business of hospitals. The starting point for these changes should be the study or analysis of the operations of hospitals, etc. Master plan of Croatian hospitals. I ask you to explain to us what this plan, so master plan of hospitals, wants to achieve and is it true what some media have repeatedly mentioned, which is that this master plan of the hospital should be in some way the basis for closing some hospitals? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56647	Answering the question, Health Minister Rajko Ostojic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56648	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Madam Representative, Mrs. Professor, thank you for your question. So the master's plan of the hospital is something that's definitely been waiting for us, which we've been talking about for decades. For decades we have witnessed the unplanned expansion of certain hospital capacities, for decades we have witnessed the unplanned spread of certain diagnostic tests and individual therapeutic procedures. And that's just a fact. So, we've opened a public tender, I'm going to highlight an international public tender and 15 companies have come forward. Along with the World Bank, a company that has a respectable international reputation has been elected, and they are in the final phase of the master plan to be presented to the government first of course, sometime during the 12th month. In short, we have already divided Croatia into five regions, Pannonian Croatia, southern Croatia, Istria and Primorje, Zagreb, central and northern Croatia and we will connect the entire number of hospitals into regional hospital networks. For example, in northern Croatia you can imagine that Varazdin, Čakovec and Koprivnica will be one big KBC because they care about 450 thousand inhabitants. Better availability, more effective healthcare will come out of the master's hospital plan. What happened all over Croatia? There was an unplanned, unplanned emphasis, and an irrational spread of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in certain hospitals performed cold procedures once, three, five times a year. This can be potentially harmful with a whole series of complications because we all know, and even in politics there is a learning curve let alone in one medicine. There is a learning curve, so you have to have a sufficient number of endoscopic procedures, surgery, a sufficient number of skills that have shown scientific methods of type... analysis to be a successful surgeon, successful anesthesiologist or successful endoscopic. In other words, the master of the plan should not be afraid but it is the fact that individual departments in certain regions will be abolished but open in the same region elsewhere, with better exploitation of both human capacities and material resources. So, they either departments or hospitals that will eventually be abolished, and certainly some will go to B-type hospitals, hospitals for extended treatment, palitatives and hospices because you know, unfortunately, for decades in Croatia, there is a white plague. We age, less and less our children are born and we grow old as it pulls away a whole series of chronic degenerative diseases. In short, we introduced order into this segment, and we came across a mess. Why a foreign company? Because a foreign company has been selected in an international public tender, because it has been freed from our subjectivism, because it has been freed from our usual influence that has been specific so far in Croatia, it exists today, of course, but in a smaller and smaller scale. And I think the master plan will give birth to better, more efficient and accessible health care.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56649	I thank the ministers. We're moving on to the next question, they're going to ask a respected colleague named Gjurdzica Plancic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56650	Thank you, Your Honor, Vice President, Prime Minister, Minister and Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I will refer my question to the Deputy Prime Minister and the Minister of Regional Development and EU funds. Namely, a draft proposal on regional development of the Republic of Croatia is in the public debate. The draft brought great attention to the interested public, and in particular the proposed newspaper, which consists of dividing the Republic of Croatia into 5 planned areas and a slightly different definition of assisted areas. According to what we read in the media and see also in these media and the proposed newspaper are understood as the announcement of the abolition of the county, i.e. as a denial of state support for less developed areas. My particular question, although we have already heard something about it, is what is the point and what is the benefit of introducing these new planning areas and based specifically on what criteria will the future state support less developed local units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56651	Deputy Prime Minister Branko Grcic answers the question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56652	Thank you very much for asking. Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Prime Minister. So I've partly answered this second question of yours a little while ago but I'll repeat it one more time. The new support system, so-called Supported areas is a fairer system. Why? Because according to the development criteria at this time, of the 275 units of local self-government, you have 80 that are more than 75% of Croatia's average, according to the development index. At the same time, you have 105 units of local self-government mostly municipalities that are less developed than 75% and are not in the support system, so they are not among these 275. It is our fundamental purpose to make this replacement in accordance with the previously adopted and Regional Development and Classification Act, or the new categorization of municipalities and cities that are official, so it already exists there is nothing new but the question at which point we will apply the new system to make it fairer and to define support for local self-government units according to this new system. As far as support measures are concerned, it is the burden of abolishing support for these areas. This is almost a complete retention of all those tax and other reliefs and aids that were also valid for the area of special state care and for mountainous and mountainous areas. I repeat further support for the islands and the town of Vukovar remains intact, so nothing changes there and remains part of the regional development system of the Republic of Croatia. As far as the planning areas are concerned, they are one of the newspapers in this law with the intention of connecting each other to the county, which means there is no abolishing of the county. Countys remain the only administrative regional or regional units as the law says. Plane areas are not administrative areas, they do not have their own bodies, they do not have budgets, so it is voluntary or should I say informal integration of counties in planning their own development in defining priorities and defining joint projects. So is it logical for related and neighbouring counties to connect around projects beyond their borders? Of course, it is related, especially in the context of the EU, European funds and the way in which these funds are withdrawn. We need the partner councils of these areas that will be negotiated together, so they will not be imposed on them by the state, but will discuss themselves and agree on what their joint projects are, propose to the state, and we have foreseen that the development agreement between the state and these partner councils is going on afterwards in terms of the financial support of the state to be implemented. So there is no danger of abolishing the county, exclusively informal integration, exclusively in planning development and implementing serious larger regional projects, and that is that. The fact that there are certain dissatisfactions, a different view of how these regions should look, of course we are in a public debate and we will still talk about it and see what it should look like in the end, but here is the key purpose of these areas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56653	Thank you. Any comments? There is no need to comment, so we will conclude the current morning question asked by counterpart Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56654	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I refer my question to the Minister of Agriculture, Mr. Tihomir Jakovina. Mr Minister, your current mandate has been marked by a series of negative phenomena, I will mention only some of those to whom I witness every day, which is the collapse of the OPG, the decline in milk and meat production, so further protests against farmers due to the failure to pay off incentives, and the departure of your closest associates, and the latest in a series is the basic document for withdrawing 332m euros from the EU budget for Croatian agriculture, the draft Rural Development Strategy was assessed by the European Commission as unclear and missing. It would take a long time for these 8 sides where the European Commission has been manifested but have made it clear that it is necessary to define, explain and improve more clearly. This caused damage to the Croatian village, of course, to the Croatian state, and in that sense I ask you, will you resign because of everything you've been told, Mr. Minister? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56655	Let's hear the answer of the Minister of Agriculture, Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56656	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to resign my fellow MP, and when you ask a question and when you want to argue, then you need to get a little bit more into matter. The Rural Development Programme as the most important strategic document of the Republic of Croatia could not be passed on to the Government of the Republic of Croatia before regulations were adopted at Council and Parliament level. The programme is over, the programme will be extremely well prepared, conceived, funds will be used through 19 measures and will certainly enable the prosperity and progress of Croatian agrarians. It is too little time to make comparison with what your governments have previously done to prepare and use pre-accession SAPHAR funds, the IPARD which was extremely, extremely small but did not expect a different question than that for everything that is bad on your part will be accused of the current agriculture minister regardless of this respected House whichever law comes from whatever sector of my ministry my respected colleague returns every time to milk, milk beef problem, the problem of destroying family economies and all that allegedly this government is guilty or bad. We can talk about the milk a little bit. You know yourself when you talk about the situation in dairy beef in the Republic of Croatia is extremely difficult and bad, but not only back two years. In 2003, when he started working as a reference laboratory in Križevci almost 55 thousand family economies in the Republic of Croatia engaged in dairy, in 2012, when I became a minister, it was only 14 thousand, now there are 11 of them. If we do a little bit about trends that are now a member in the European Union, nearly 300 thousand family economies since the milk crisis in the European Union has stopped producing milk. In this year alone, nearly 100,000 farmers in Europe have stopped their activities. In one of your steps as head of the municipality, you said that your beautiful rural community is a model agricultural area where productivity in dairy beef is at the level of Denmark and that with that you admire and that is good, but that the current policy has made everything bad and destroys agriculture and in your municipality. I've given myself a little effort since we used to be colleagues, so I've looked at your 2013 budget, and I think it's about 10 million and 600,000 now after the rebalancing. Such great concern and concern for agriculture and interest should also be shown through figures in your budget that it deserves agriculture as a strategic branch of the economy and in your municipality, but also in the Republic of Croatia more than 440 thousand kunas as you spent and predicted. For wages alone, there were about 650 thousand, firemen 700 thousand. If we speak public needs for citizens' associations, clubs and societies a billion and 630 thousand. I wish that units of local self-government, as well as the county, could use the opportunity to help through certain support for agriculture and family economies, as well as companies and crafts that work in this difficult and important economic branch. So looking at the example of your community, there's an old saying "cruise and games," but it seems to me like you have games and voices. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56657	Commentary of Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56658	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Minister, it's a little unsatisfactory to say, I'm less important and thank you for teaching me some things, but it doesn't matter either. It is important that you know what you should do, it is the most important thing, that you are expected by Croatian farmers and the Croatian village. As for the program, so you promised those programs by May 30th, now you're saying they're being prepared, so you're not. Second, you go back to your predecessors and talk about what they did or didn't do. Well, it's not your fault and your previous authority that you've done this proposal and the draft strategy unquality or incompetently. That's the point of the story. You have to work quality. I'm glad you're taking care of my community which, of course, cares about all segments of life, so from farmers, firefighters who protect the people's property and all those and cultures, sports, young people who, of course, have no existence, who have a hard time living under these circumstances to follow. But I hold that it would be better and better instructed for you to take care of what is in your jurisdiction, to take care of agriculture, of the needs of Croatian peasants. I will not ask for a written answer because I want to allow you and leave you more time to do these programs in a quality way so that you can do them in a way that you do not get pucks from the European Union. And I think the most qualitative solution is that you just get off this job that farmers who expect you to help are dissatisfied. [[Applause.]] Thank you very much. [[Applause.]] [[Good job, bravo.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56659	Member States shall ensure that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, I would like to inform you that, within the prescribed deadline, the ministries have not delivered a response to the 21st parliamentary question and, in accordance with the said Rules of Procedure, I would ask that the delivery replies be delivered within 8 days. I thank the Prime Minister and the members and members of the Government, and I thank both all my colleagues and colleagues who have asked a parliamentary question. I'm setting a break. Current morning is over. We'll continue at 3:00 this morning on the established agenda.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56660	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue the session and start working on the agenda. I suggest we work in a way that we discuss the first and second points together, third and Thursday, fifth and sixth. So a report and a decision on that report. So we'll discuss 1 first. Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Support Operation in Afghanistan from 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013 and 1. The proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an ISAF peace support operation in Afghanistan was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and also by the decision. You received the motion for action at the session. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee. On behalf of the motionr, the report and the motion for a decision will be presented by Defence Minister Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go, fellow Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56661	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. So before you today there is a report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an ISAF Peace Support operation in Afghanistan from April 2012 until the end of March 2013. We report on the participation of our members through this report and through the Annual Report on the preparedness of the defence system which was discussed here in this House last week and received unanimous support from your representative and representative in the Croatian Parliament. Before I go into any particular exposure, I want to say two things first. First of all, I want to thank our soldiers, our members of the Armed Forces, who have been in a series of demanding operations around the world for ten to twelve years. I want to thank them for their sacrifice, for their effort, for their willingness, for what they present and represent the Republic of Croatia, and that is what we are really proud of all of them. Secondly, I would like to thank you to the representatives here in the Croatian Parliament for supporting us, for the understanding we have, which I have as defence minister, which has the Ministry of Defence, because without your support, understanding without it would have no use for, we could not do anything about it. As for the ISAF operation, it means in this past period we've had two contingents. The 19th contingent that was deployed up with 344 members and the 20th contingent with 291 members of the Armed Forces. It immediately shows that we have the continuity of falling forces and reducing our forces in accordance with NATO policies and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Croatia. So also members of the 19th and 20th contingent, so the ISAF's serious operation carried out mentoring, consulting and training tasks of Afghan security forces, and they acted as officers in the surveillance system because we have something and, we also have one company that protects a particular camp by reconnaissance and exiting that space. It's about the equivalent power of hundreds of people. So most of our forces are in the north with a few people down in Kabul who carry out other tasks. As regards logistics support, it took place during the operation, it was satisfactory, it was implemented from our national sources means by purchasing on the local market upstairs, but also with support and other nations. So during the reporting period, we didn't have any major health threats and problems that could affect the safety of the force. We had extraordinary events in the sense that we had two self-inflicted, easier self-inflicted two members but they did not disrupt the combat preparedness or the ability of the contingent's component. I have to say that it's an ISAF operation that it's not a simple operation, that it's a risky operation, that it's been conducted in the ISAF space, or Afghanistan for 10 years, that we've been lucky so far that we haven't had any major victims, we haven't had casualties in terms of executions. We had to say easier and smaller incidents, and as such we have to look at it. But yet our soldiers want to go up, our soldiers prepare, train for such things, and they are ready to respond to every challenge put in front of them on the ground itself. We had the same achievements up during the stay in the field of ISAF operations. I'd say they were very significant achievements. We have mentored the Afghan security forces of the level of battle and brigade over. I can say it's one of the best brigades that now has Afghan security forces that it's a unit that we mentored with others. And that makes us happy because we did our job very correctly and okay. We've raised the preparedness of Afghan security forces, we've trained them, and they're showing it today on the ground when they're carrying out their own tasks in terms of the combat operations they have up there. We also want to say that we have had additional values, the Croatian Army in the last ten years means we have had 20 contingents that have spent worse. We call it extra value in the sense that our people have learned to work, practice with other nations. We work upstairs with 50 countries. These are invaluable values that our officers, officers, soldiers have received and that has raised our combat preparedness. It motivated us, trained us to prepare better, to train better. This is how we came to NATO standards before we joined NATO and became a member of NATO as a Republic of Croatia as one of 28 members. As for the operating expenditure for Operation ISAF, we spent 285 million kuna in that period. So all tasks have been successfully carried out in both national and command systems and operations. With their work, relations with members of other countries, military holding, appearance and quality of tasks, members of the Armed Forces were decently represented by the Armed Forces abroad. Just one more sentence or two, as a representative in Parliament, I have advocated that a delegation of this House visit our members of the Armed Forces in this most important mission that we are carrying out is ISAF and in a conversation with the chairman of the board, I am also asking the Vice-President of the Parliament to give support and to the next year when conditions are created, when conditions are acquired, when security allows it to, together with the Ministry of Defence, defend itself to be directed into the area of the operation and to visit our soldiers, officers and officers to convince themselves of how much they are trained, how much they are prepared, how motivated they are for the task. I think it would be good for the general picture that people in Parliament would get about how we live and work, how we train and prepare for the task. As far as the report's concerned, I'd just like that much. In accordance with the report and in accordance with the tasks we are preparing to do in 2014 we need a decision of the Croatian Parliament on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the operation to support the peace of the ISAF in Afghanistan. As I said to us, we'll stay in 2014 but we'll reduce our strength significantly. We need this decision somewhere up to 200 people we propose to this Parliament that up to 200 people make a decision to refer to the ISAF operation, with us probably from 1.09 already having less than 150 people in the field of operation so that it will be a significant same fall in relation to what we propose. Hardly, our people would do the mentoring tasks they've been doing right now. So that mentoring would be but more mentoring, wouldn't do mentoring the level of the battle brigade than mentoring the level of the Corps, counseling the same. So we'd group up in the north. There will be 5 large camps in Afghanistan in the perspective, we would be worse under the leadership of the Federal Republic of Germany, that is our choice and we decided to do so. The total number of soldiers in Afghanistan would be 10, 12 thousand. We're waiting for the Americans to come forward exactly how many soldiers they'll send. The situation in the north is relatively peaceful, although it is an area that is completely insecure and we cannot say that it is completely safe. So mentoring and counseling would do the levels of the military police corps, say, for engineers and logistics and, say, special police, but the civilian police, that's what our people would do. So these are the things we plan to do next year. Also, the same... task of protecting the power up. This is where we plan to work together with Macedonians and Montenegrins. We're up there now, for example, in those forces, we have a platoon of Montenegrins together and we work very well together. These people are getting ready here, they're training at our place, and we're going up together. And according to this, the Montenegrin army has fully relied on our production in terms of buying uniforms, helmets, boots, they do everything and buy it in the Republic of Croatia. So one way we're all satisfied. And we intend to expand that in cooperation with the Macedonians, but also introduce a platoon of people to come with us. So, it would be a platoon of Montenegrins and a platoon of Macedonians and the rest would be the forces of our armed forces of the Republic of Macedonia where we would be meant to be leaders in that sense and would give that command chamber. We are, of course, providing funds at the level of the Ministry of Defence, and I do not know what would be more important to say especially for this mission up there than to suggest that you support this proposal for a decision and make a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an ISAF peace support operation in 2014. So we're implementing a policy that NATO has set out to go and work on changing forces. We are slowly doing this in accordance with the way other nations do according to the tasks that we will get and which we have in a very peaceful and very correct way. And as I said from the 1st of September next year, it's going to fall somewhere up to 150 people, say our role in the ISAF operation itself. We want to stay even after 2014, I want to say this very clearly and openly because it is important for us to participate in the missions that are carried out because we have these additional values and that we are interested in gaining experience in such areas of high-intensity operations and which are very responsible. And it gives those extra values to our armed forces. Madam Vice President, gentlemen, I'm here if you think there's anything to explain and ask any questions, I'll answer that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56662	Thank you very much, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't, thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is the club of HDZ representatives and counterpart Davor Bozinovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56663	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate. Here's what I'd like to start this debate with what I've concluded seems to me to be the last debate about also the Afghanistan Report sometime last year when I found out and I think it's come to my understanding but unfortunately it's not the implementation that the Afghanistan issue is so we're actually defining one of the goals and participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is one of the goals of Croatian foreign policy. I feel so much like I really need to discuss Afghanistan's participation of our members of the armed forces and this whole complex to open up a little wider debate in this House and not only to be limited to the Ministry of Defense. If something falls within the objectives of foreign policy, then at least the Committee on Foreign Policy which has not yet had Afghanistan as one of the objectives of Croatian foreign policy on its agenda should be discussed, and given that it is a multi-tasking effort that is under way in view of the participation and members of the MUP should also be discussed by the Committee on Internal Affairs and National Security because we have a contradiction there. On the one hand, we are talking about this being a very important foreign policy goal for us, and on the other hand we are not talking about it. I assure you that this is one of the few Parliaments of countries that have their members in such a responsible and difficult mission that this matter is only discussed when the issue of the report comes to the agenda, or the new decision to send members of the Armed Forces to Afghanistan. This, of course, does not apply only to the mission in Afghanistan, this applies to other missions above all, I would say to the mission in Kosovo which is an integral part if you want our regional policies, the policies towards the neighbourhood that we put to the top as a priority of Croatian foreign policy, and that we did not consider from a political aspect the participation of our soldiers, officers and officers in the Mission in Kosovo. Why does it matter? So when we talk about Afghanistan it's still before I tell the Minister that we all share pride on our soldiers on members of the armed forces and internal affairs and other representatives of the Republic of Croatia for what they do, for the high level of professionalism they show. And we who were in Afghanistan know what we're talking about, are really among the most respected members of the International Security Forces contingent in Afghanistan. But to return to this question, therefore, if we were to discuss as more or less every other parliament that sends its troops out to discuss the political issue then, of course, we would have to see what trends are at this point in Afghanistan, we would have to talk about, because today we will have to support the situation not only in the country, which, despite the multi-year presence of international forces, is still marked by the constant uncertainty, the dysfunctional administration and the very widespread corruption, because today we will support, of course, this decision and this report, but we need to know how things are on the ground, we need to know that there is some kind of niche in which Croatia can be further presented as an active participant of international policy, and on the other hand, perhaps to protect the additional people we send there in view of the challenges that are definitely coming. At this point, no one really knows how to complete this actual test of transferring powers from international forces to the forces of Afghan security units of either the military or the police. This is now a transition period. During that period, the States participating in that mission shall, of course, take into account all relevant indicators on which they will base their decision. First of all, I'm thinking about the Afghan police situation that's not great. Their uniformed police with some 108 thousand members have not made much progress when we talk about professionalism. The same applies when we talk about a border police force that has 20 and a few thousand members who has been deployed especially in the troubled region towards Pakistan. The border is very ugly, and it goes through a lot of things that poses a challenge to stability not only of the institutions but of the states as a whole. Of course, it should be taken into account that Afghans want security as well as any other people, primarily provided by members of their armed and security forces. According to the latest public opinion polls, about 87% want it. However, the situation is not simple at all and we are entering a critical period and it is therefore important that this Assembly discuss it accordingly. I'm not saying that this would lead to some different decisions, but we have to do it for the public, we have to do it for ourselves because we have boyfriends there right now, and the self-fulfilling of this hall is talking about how it would be good for this debate to be put in another way and I believe that there would then be a slightly greater interest of fellow MPs. It is important that this information, it is important that citizens know that things are going globally, it is important that we see what opportunities are and what further efforts will possibly be required or that I be more diplomatic, certain expectations that will be made of the countries that are participating there because by reducing military effects, both efforts or investment in the political system will have to be increased, in the building of institutions and those of economic nature. When we talk about economic investment, and that is all something that should ensure stability to Afghanistan, there is a chance there is and I am sure it has for the Croatian economy. Croatia has been there for 10 years, as the minister said. There have been some attempts, I'm not sure they've been born with fruit, but we're always talking from the beginning about that there's no interresor approach where everyone can actually make their contribution and then see what additional benefits Croatia can possibly get out of this mission. So we are no longer in a position to represent ourselves as a potential NATO member because this has become, nor is it important for us to join the European Union because we have entered, but now, as other countries, we need to see what opportunities are still being opened there. That's why we need a broader debate on this issue. Speaking of this transition, the fifth tranche is now under way, so the last transition of power to the security forces of the Afghan army and police. This should be taken into account, regardless of what the 91 district is, that and on that side, the situation is actually the most sensitive because these are the areas that are related to the border with Pakistan. So with pride, with the support of what our boys are doing there, I think that the Croatian public deserves to be a little wider and a little more detailed from all aspects, at least we here in the Parliament talk, to debate because if we don't do it hard that we can expect someone else and, of course, to be with our boys. I know that the minister, please, and the girls, and of course we support the most recent success, let's say the Croatian Armed Forces that a gender adviser in the ISAF Command will be a high-ranking officer of the Croatian Army. So open the debate, especially on committees and then at the plenary session and see what are all the possibilities of our participation in international missions. It cannot be exhausted just and exclusively to send soldiers, it must have a political goal, this political goal exists, however, and it is changing over time. It must have an economic objective and we must find potential and we must find ways to turn it into concrete effects for the Republic of Croatia. I would not say much about the security situation, I would only say that when we talk about reporting there are standards, there are NATO standards but are related to NATO forces, they refer to the NATO Information Service, and there are national standards. In this sense, I expect that in the coming period, given the interest of the Croatian public, we will have as much information from Afghanistan as possible, the good ones, the less good ones, because this House, the Croatian Parliament, must have full insight so that it can fulfill its Constitution with a certain role. In that sense, I really thank you, there is a colleague Ivić as chairman of the board, in excellent co-operation with the Ministry of Defence and I expect that, at some next opportunity, we may discuss this issue together with other ministries that are concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56664	Thank you very much. On behalf of SDP representative Boris Kovacic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56665	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Secretary with an assistant, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here I will, on behalf of the SDP Club, on these two points of the agenda in this joint debate regarding the report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an ISAF peace support operation in Afghanistan from 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013 and on this decision also supports the peace of the ISAF in Afghanistan. Not to forget to say that on behalf of the club here, the SDP club will certainly support both the report and this decision. What the minister also said at the beginning, so it seems quite polite for me to say, indeed our soldiers and girls and boys in Afghanistan deserve first of all a big thank you and a word of thanks because they are not there on a tourist trip. I do not think that we will go and thank you for the invitation, the committee that I have understood, but they are there in a risky operation, and we are truly happy and happy when we read this report exactly that there have been no more serious or serious consequences on the security of any member, and in particular, let me say so to the members of our Armed Forces. International operations such as the ISAF in which our Armed Forces participate, first of all, is a strong affirmation and policy and commitment of our country to actively engage all together in the construction, I mean in the world of building security and stabilisation, so here we are looking at this action not only in Afghanistan but also in Kosovo or I don't know in Somalia. For this reason, here is what Mr Bozinović was talking about today, at the meeting of the Defence Committee, and there we have indeed agreed unanimously, right, confirmed that this is not only a matter of defending the country or the issue of internal affairs, but above all also a priority issue of foreign policy. And that's why we supported it, and I think it will come, and besides, we've also identified the modernist of our Mr. Ivic, we've told these thematic sessions three committees and foreign policy if it's accepted by colleagues and colleagues and the Committee on Internal Affairs and the Defence Committee. Well, here's another call from the minister about Afghanistan. I think there's a critical thinking, a critical mass to say that we can all do it together. Here and looking forward to knowing that on these large issues if you want both defences and security and foreign policy on these issues we have dare say consensus because here I hear that, I am convinced that this is how the debate on the board confirmed that we will be practically unanimous in these decisions as well. Or that I don't prejudge things. When it comes to this report that we are related to ISAF, the ISAF peace operation in Afghanistan, it is necessary to remind our Armed Forces, so the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia have been engaged there since 28 February 2003, that we have made a decision in this House last year to have our armed forces contingent present with 350 members. Although the decision was a rotating character, the minister also said there was a reduction and there was a different numerical composition of the 19th contingent and the 20th contingent of our Armed Forces in Afghanistan. What seems just as important to me, and we read that our contingents worked on two actually regional areas of Kabul, something more or less with logistics and the north. The report also shows that members of the Armed Forces who mentor and advise also participated in several joint operations conducted by the ISAF forces in the area of the north. Right? There have also been critical developments, and it is now important to point out that for the members of our Croatian contingent there have been no direct attacks, but there was no security to say so. We also read what I had already read and said that there had been a number change, so that with about 300 and 19, the contingent numbered 344 members and 20,291 members of the Armed Forces were in Afghanistan. It was also pointed out that members of both contingents carried out tasks primarily mentoring, consulting and training the Afghan security forces and acting together and individual duties within the mission. It should also be pointed out with satisfaction, as indicated nicely, that the general logistics support during the operations was satisfactory, and was carried out from both national sources and above all by obtaining in the local market, as well as from other nations. Here, in the report and the ministry, it is obviously very important, almost most important to point out that the Armed Forces, that we've taken over motor vehicles from the US Armed Forces, that we've returned the first part and that our contingent has 18 vehicles. I particularly point out and should stress and be happy to conclude that during the reporting period there were no more serious health problems, especially from the aspect of security when it comes to our Armed Forces. Of course there have been certain diseases but what it would mean to say for life is dangerous here it seems to me very significant. Although two extreme cases and a violation of discipline are mentioned here, so one member is returned to the Republic of Croatia, I don't know, but I won't say to the total number and number of contingents that it's not negligible, but here it is significant for the emphasis, and it speaks of skills, so I would also say to the high morale of our members and members of the Armed Forces in Afghanistan. At the end of this report I would mention that out of the total meaning of 50 countries participating with over 100 thousand members in this mission, here is a significant contribution and then man feels a small and enthusiastic contribution from our members and members, or our Armed Forces in Afghanistan. More then this news, namely, has Mrs Gordana Garesic, our Brigadier, as she is expected in December of the month to take on a new duty in Afghanistan, I think in Kabul, as a counselor for gender equality, and since this is the post of generals acting so that here, Mr. Minister, I recommend myself on behalf of the board when Mrs. Garesic will become a general here I will congratulate her on behalf of the Defence Committee. Since I said it first, please take it nicely, take it. As far as the decision is concerned, it is also important to say that the ISAF operation was launched in 2001 as part of a comprehensive effort by the International Community for the Stabilisation of Afghanistan, which is actually based on the Bosnian Agreement of 25 January 2001. According to which, with the assistance of the International Community, the transitional administration of the country was established and one... future of Afghanistan was drawn up. Of course the operation and approved the Security Council with a special resolution, of course the UN Security Council. And when we look at one chronology of events since 2005, when the first contingent had about 150 members, and it was there at the end of 2006 at the end of 2007, we had 200 and then in 2008. 300 and then this number has varied from 300, 320 to 350, now this decision determines that this contingent for 2014 will be composed of 200 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Because of all this and what I've said before, I'm sure the SDP Councilman's Club will support the report as well as this proposed decision. Ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56666	On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56667	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with assistant, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of a united debate on these two points concerning Afghanistan, I will make it clear that the HNS Club will also support the report on the implementation of the mission in Afghanistan and the Decision on further participation until the end of the mission of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission itself. For what? The mission itself has its solid foundations in internationally legally valid decisions, it is based on a decision or UN Resolution and also on the Bonaan Agreement between the countries that launched the mission. It includes a large number of countries, hence a wide range of countries that are members of the International Community, more than 49 countries of the world have been participating in this mission and the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for 10 years. In those 10 years, the mission itself has changed into an important character and since the initial emphasis of combat support in Afghanistan in the first years it has slowly but certainly transformed exclusively into a mentoring mission, a mission of supporting the training of Afghan Armed Forces and security forces, or internal affairs. The same was followed by a gradual reduction in the number of participants of our armed forces in the mission itself. Its duration, as foreseen in this form, is still at the end of 2014. After that, the second section will be approached, which will be explicitly mentored, trained, logistic. Experiences gained by the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia over the years in Afghanistan are valuable experiences when it comes to the training and combat experience of our professional soldiers. The situation is being corrected year by year based on the fact that the growing number of attacks recorded, that the level of training of Afghan forces among other things and with our contribution is getting better and bigger and that the technical equipment of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is better and better. This kind of engagement of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia not only contributes to peace in the world and in a certain way resolves our obligations towards the NATO Alliance which gives us security in the defence sense but also contributes to the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia and is well noticed by fellow Bozinovic regarding both the functions of foreign affairs and the matter of which, in any case, would be interesting to hear and the opinion of foreign affairs resolutions not only the Ministry of Defence. Given what this mission means, given the fact that... the obligations of the Republic of Croatia which, as a responsible member of the international community, must fulfil its obligations, given the fact that this is also part of the fulfillment of the NATO alliance that we willingly and consciously entered into to use all the benefits of the NATO alliance, it is normal to carry out our obligations in this mission until the end. The experiences we have are not bad in terms of what this meant for the safety of our people, but no matter how many times they found themselves in the battle zone, even on some occasions, the troops in which they did part were and under enemy fire showed a high level of professionality and thank God there were no casualties. The number of incidents when it comes to discipline shows a high level of professionality among members because it is minor when considering how many professional soldiers the Republic has been through all these years and through the rotations of the people has passed this mission. In any case, let us hope that this last year for which we are making the decision and for which the HNS will raise the hand will go equally professionally and equally securely by members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and therefore I stress that the HNS will support the decision, and we also support the report that contains exclusively positive elements for us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56668	On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56669	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. On the trail of exposition of the predecessors, I would refer to them in substance all concerning these two documents in order not to be attached, perhaps with all praise and participation of the Republic of Croatia in this peace operation through the activities of the Croatian Army under the ISAF Mission, I would point out several elements which may still be worth mentioning here, it is that we, as the Republic of Croatia, are in the framework of a very modest budget of the Armed Forces and the Ministry of Defence very high and financial and humanely advanced to be able to participate through the ISAF Mission. This special financial component, given that the budget of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces is very low in percentages compared to most NATO member states, this percentage of the allocation that was set out for ISAF missions remains the same this year, leaving a mark on some of the other elements of the armed forces. Mr. Minister, whose work during this two-year period we can assess quite successfully was able to relatively balance these components, so that in such a modest budget, armed forces have recorded the isolation in both modernization and reconstruction and completion of some projects that have dragged away in previous years and with slightly larger budgets of the armed forces. In total, however, we felt that the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF mission in the previous years when that number was passed by 300 members that it was too high and disproportionate and the size of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia and the financial capacities of the budget, and that foreign policy effect or the overall political effect that was achieved or the benefit was not so much compared to the costs. So he might say he pulled the parallel that sometimes it seemed to remind us of our current participation in the EU that it turned out that we were giving a little more than is coming back. In any case, we welcome the reduction of the Croatian contingent that participates in ISAF in 2014 and we hope that in the years that follow it will decrease within the framework of the Afghanistan exit strategy and that this representation or tension of the Croatian forces will now be moved to several other points and that we will not actually be in Afghanistan now but practically with the same or with an even greater number of participants in five new missions along and across the planet. I think that the Republic of Croatia and as a loyal partner of the Allies and as a state to fulfil its obligations within the NATO Alliance must be aware of its national interests and its financial constraints and its budgetary constraints and its state of arms forces and should not meet every requirement immediately with the fact that it is indeed assessing its opportunities and within its scope to participate in peace operations, no matter where or what they were. Therefore, once again, the invitation to actually take place in the framework of the Afghanistan exit strategy in this coming year does not actually mean that the overall participation of the Armed Forces is just being relocated to five new contingents because these crisis hotspots really do have a lot. But any cooperation with the co-operation that we as a state must show, the fulfillment of our international obligations must also be related to Croatian and economic and political interests because this is nevertheless the goal of our participation in international peace missions, with the elemental fulfilment of our commitments. So that's an emphasis on our attitude. And when it comes to these two points, given that the proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the ISAF 2014 operation actually provides for a reduction of the contingent, we will support one and the other proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56670	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labourist-Stranke labor colleagues Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56671	Honorable Vice President, distinguished ministers with associates. Well, I won't be too long. I would like primarily not to say that I was behind that attitude which the distinguished representative Bozinović mentioned here on behalf of the HDZ and expressed what, if I am not mistaken, some others have mentioned here the cooperation of several committees in order to potentiate the seriousness of this issue, let's call it this topic. And I think that no matter how much this is from this pay phone trying to point to the real importance and seriousness of this topic if there's no coordination within the government and all the structures of the government, I mean not just the ministers, but everything that goes along with it, I'm not going to do anything wrong right now. I wanted to mention the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, but then I remembered that she was in another affair, now that it doesn't turn out to be something wrong, I didn't mean it, but if that story isn't about our economy, or at least what's left of it, then it's questionable what kind of effect we can take. Now my colleague before me mentioned the part about finance, the financial pressure given the general state in which our country is how much we cost these missions, not only this mission, but also the ones we're going to be behind, which means the following two are also the result of the subinvestment of that armed forces sector that has been conditionally left here, the one that is parent, the base, I don't know what to call it. And at the same time, we haven't done enough on either political or other agenda to create a synergy between these forces. If we're already going and sending our boys down, anywhere, then it would be logical to try to include the economy in that story, or to just include it, find a link. I don't know how much because, frankly, if people don't care about this particular topic, then they don't go into details, but wherever the great forces fought behind it, their companies built these countries, and it was very, very well charged. And now we won't say that they fought everywhere, in offensive terms they weren't always conquerors, they were somewhere to say peacemakers. Well, this phase to me is, like, now peace in Afghanistan or before that in Iraq, not me, but we can read it in the media, it's an ideal basis for them to expand that other influence. Is that sometimes let's be objective there aren't too many touch points with an honest and real intention of helping but on the other hand they found an interest in their industry, for their own business. I absolutely support the idea that three if I don't cheat on the board hold a joint session and I think that by respecting it it should be achieved and co-operation within the government and that it should be done, I don't say it isn't but I appeal if it is to be better quality and I hope that there is an opportunity for it to be more successful, that when we are already fulfilling and we need to fulfil these obligations of the international that we have taken over, to try some of it and to achieve it. Because you don't need to be ashamed of it, it's what every country in the world does that doesn't even send their troops into these peacekeeping missions looking for space for their economy, for their economy. It's not a question of doing the same for our economy. And I think that in any case this was the only reason why I answered this agenda. Otherwise on the third, conditionally speaking third, given that two agenda points have been combined when Somalia is concerned, but I think that the same conditions should be considered very well whether Afghanistan and Kosovo and Somalia are the same. I think there's a completely different situation there now. I'm not saying no, but you should think about it one more time. That's still our expense. Each of these missions is a cost to us, but you should already consider that if anything else we might give up on that Somalia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56672	Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56673	Dear colleague Novak, you said one sentence that wherever the great forces fought, they always went after that, and they built this country up. The sentence that prompted me on the line wasn't always the great powers of conquerors, not always, but in most cases they were. I was recently at the Afghan border in Tajikistan. I spoke to the people who fled from Afghanistan. I've had my chance to be in the company of some Iraqis and now I won't, I don't have time to convince their impressions of the democracy that the West is introducing to those countries. There are almost no wars that are not essentially driven by economic reasons. In the last hundred years, most of the wars that have started especially when democracy has defended its own countries in a few thousand kilometers distant country that happens to have a lot of oil or which accidentally has a fantastic geostrategic position and then defends itself there democracy in a foreign area and later builds a country with whose resources with international assistance that has come to sell what they previously destroyed. So that's one big farce. Now the question is how much do I agree with Mr. Djurovic who said we don't always have to say yes. We should see. It is known what those who are constantly saying that, which is our political interest in this, I agree and what our economic opportunities are. And in fact, what is our interest in all this, and even the moral one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56674	The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56675	Thank you very much. Well, here's a colleague I honestly reported on behalf of the club for the sole reason that, in my opinion, this important topic, that it doesn't really turn out to be that pro-forma we just do it from every club at a time, one agent out, does it, so I don't say what I'm supposed to do, my obligation. But let's really try to point out the possibility, the opportunity. Now if we're going to use it, if we're capable, if we have resources on that, by that, that's what we'd be given. But just that after what you said about how those wars occurred, we're all aware of that. We just see ourselves in whether we have a chance because if everyone else does, everyone's looking for an opportunity, and we turn out to be something bigger Catholic and I don't know from the Pope how justified it is to ourselves. And on the other hand, you commented on a debate between your colleagues, Djurovic, whether we must say every time, that, on the other hand, was the final one about Somalia. I hope it's not too late to think about it again. Maybe there are some arguments that we might, who we're not aware of, that we don't see well. But I don't see those counter arguments either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56676	Davor Bozinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56677	Here I am glad that the debate so far has actually shown the need to talk about this very openly. Things have changed with our membership. Not every word must be measured in both NATO and the EU anymore. And, of course, with this work being done in some way, obligations or expectations as members of both the bloc and the other one, that is, the alliance and European integration, we must start to think economically. There is no country the size of Croatia that is successful without export orientation. These are great odds if you want for Croatian exports. I tried to speak on the topical clock this morning about the discussions that are being held today in the EU. It's not going to cut down on a colleague of Djurovic's. There will be these participations in international missions. But what we have to do is make it one joint effort. I'm sorry the Department of Defense people are forced here, but it's not bad for them to listen to something that's actually messages to other resorts. We have to go there with people looking for work. He's got work to do. The whole world wouldn't go here or there if there was no work or just for some let's call them high political-moral reasons. He's got work to do, but we need to get out. We need to mentally understand that Croatia cannot move forward unless it opens up to the world, unless it goes where jobs are supplied. We will not become a leading force in either NATO or the EU...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56678	Thank you very much. The answer to the line of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56679	Oh, thank you very much. In everything we agree, we all said the same thing. Just this answer to the replica I use as an opportunity to possibly appeal to the minister at a joint session of these three committees, to bring in other ministers and to make co-operation happen. I'm not saying it's going to be, and I'm sure there won't be any big takeoffs right now, but let other thoughts be heard. I don't think this would be safe for anyone to hear this kind of thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56680	Thank you very much. Set up a discussion of the three committees and the ministers will surely come. We're moving on to an individual debate. A colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56681	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. The HNS club's views were discussed by counterpart Baranovic, I will try in a slightly different way to express my opinion on the participation of members of the RS Armed Forces in the ISAF peace operation in Afghanistan. Participation in peace operations is the most concrete contribution to strengthening stability and security in the world, but also to strengthening the stability and security of its own country. On 1 April 2009, the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the NATO alliance. All MPs voted for that decision except for one person. All MPs except for this one person regardless of the political party or option were then aware of the historic moment of entering the most significant military-political alliance in the world. At that moment, they were aware of the responsibility for the true, real safety of Croatia, or its citizens and citizens. The primary function of each country is to ensure a safe life for its citizens and citizens. Citizens knowingly transferred some of their freedoms to the state so that they could get their freedom back by providing security, giving the citizens in their hands to the state and the only right to a repressive device for the internal security of police and for the foreign military. Security for Croatian citizens is certainly not the same as for citizens of other NATO members or EU citizens. Croatia is the only one of all NATO countries and all EU member states to pass in its immediate history, a near history of bloody and imposed a long-standing war on it. That makes us all, or at least the vast majority, particularly sensitive to the country's security and military issues at all. In addition to these unfortunate war events, Croatia unfortunately has actual practical experiences of war from the recent past and the Croatian military created its foundations during the Homeland War. They are still fresh memories as much as they try to forget them at these first moments of attack on Croatia of all refugees of Croatian citizens, violent shelling, destruction of our cities and villages. There are still fresh memories of traumatic departures to basements and shelters, darkening windows, sticking black lids to car headlights, alarms, fear and infidelity that this is happening to us at all. We remember the exits from the shelter after the alarms with great fear of who our victims were or didn't, which was destroyed, which another of our symbols was destroyed in the mindless shellings, which our dear visor irretrievably disappeared by a mad rocket attack. To the citizens of Croatia, security means something completely different than to the citizens of any NATO alliance or EU member. A clear desire to join the EU and NATO Croatia has, during communication with other members and participation in international security missions since 2002, been able to obtain the recognition of all NATO members through its efforts and certain political progress, and in 2009 it has become a full 28 NATO member. The far-sighted decision by almost all members of the then Croatian Parliament allowed Croatia to participate in all discussions on all aspects of world security policy and sitting at the same table with all other NATO members with the world's most developed countries. The NATO Alliance is a political defence alliance of 28 countries that contains in its strict rules provisions on the protection of common civilization and cultural values and the provision that the attack on one NATO member also means attack on all other members. By entering NATO's full membership, Croatia probably has long ensured stability and peace for its citizens, and stability and peace are the son of Qua non any progress. By joining NATO and especially by entering the EU, Croatia through the security and stability framework finally gets such an important prerequisite and opportunity for smooth long-term development. But by entering these associations, it is certainly not the end but only one of the beginnings of the development of the Croatian state and society. But Croatia is also taking on completely other responsibilities and tasks in a security sense not only for itself but also for its own region and beyond. We Liberals believe that no one should be indifferent to other people's sufferings, regardless of which part of the world is the person, or people who suffer. It is important to us liberals how people live today in Burkina Faso, Myanmar, Mali, Somalia, Sudan or Afghanistan. We stand on the principle that every human being is born with four uncircumcised rights with the right to life, the right to freedom, the right to security and the right to happiness. In Afghanistan, the Taliban regime was the refuge of terrorists and their organisations against which the entire free world was raised, and NATO took the lead on the ISAF international forces tasked with establishing democratic order and security-defense mechanisms in Afghanistan. In addition to these clear objectives and tasks in which the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participate, an important component of the incredibly cruel laws of the Taliban regimes in not only destruction but also denial of any human rights, especially women. The Taliban regime was so terriblely cruel to women that it itself could have been enough to start the entire international community. Thanks to the ISAF and NATO 12-year-old peacekeeping operation today, Afghanistan is a different country. The price paid by NATO members and Afghan citizens and citizens is large, primarily in human lives but also clearly in money, but I am convinced that the gain is immeasurable in the freedoms of individuals or individuals in the security of the state in the development of democratic standards, in the development of society, and in the framework of the security and stability of the region and beyond. In this we can proudly point out as one of the affected participants participated and participated Croatia with its armed forces contingent since 2002, especially as a full member after joining NATO in 2009. Croatia will certainly need to consider its own position after the end of the ISAF 2014 mission. As head of the Croatian Parliament delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in... I am in contact with colleagues from other NATO members but with various NATO operatives from military to political personnel. In particular, all US colleagues point out the unusually high quality and professionality of our troops in the ISAF Peace Operation. such a maximum professional approach to carrying out NATO tasks makes Croatia a serious, responsible member of the international community, and this certainly helps in the overall development of the international community, but certainly Croatia itself. In addition to the benefits arising from the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Operation under the leadership of NATO in Afghanistan, these include the establishment of high standards in the defence of Afghanistan forces, the democratisation of Afghanistan as a state and the very important rise of human rights standards especially for women in Afghanistan and Benfits are in constant communication and exchange of experiences and particularly important technological operational innovations between all NATO members and Croatia. The Croatian Parliament's delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly is one of the levers of permanent communication but promotion of Croatian views and policies among members of parliaments of other NATO members should certainly be taken into account. I will personally support the report from this basis the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace operation in Afghanistan and the decision to participate members of the Armed Forces in the Peace Operation in Afghanistan. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56682	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56683	The honourable representative of the essence of your debate would not speak, but only one of your discussions at the same time, you said that only one person here in the Assembly was not to join NATO and that one parliamentary representative did not feel the importance of Croatia's entry into NATO. That one person you didn't name, so I won't name him either, but I watched the Assembly session and I heard the argument. The point is completely different. The person was the only one in the Parliament who fought to join NATO to join NATO after the referendum, I think it was for democratic entry. After we lose part of sovereignty and each association regardless of whether it is a military, economic, political association of losses is part of the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. And this person was absolutely certainly right in my court, he should have left the decision to the losing people referendum, not to lose the political elite part of sovereignty, but to lose the Republic of Croatia. And the Republic of Croatia is not certainly under the authority of the political elite, I guess we exist to listen to what the people say and what the people stand for. But so far, apart from that referendum that we have decided in that former state on disunity with that former state, we have so far not reached a single referendum, and I believe that this referendum for joining NATO was very important. However, the political elite did not want to give the people the confidence to decide and this is not about someone not feeling the importance of joining NATO, it should have been done much more democratically.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56684	Reply to the replica Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56685	Thank you very much. I don't agree with my colleague Vuksic, he said some thesis that doesn't stand. By joining Croatia in NATO, Croatia has in no way lost any of its own sovereignty in any way, unlike the two referendums held, which is by disseminating from Yugoslavia and a referendum on EU accession. With Croatia's entry into the EU, Croatia has passed on a good part of its sovereignty to the EU, but by joining NATO, Croatia has done absolutely nothing to endanger or reduce its country's sovereignty, by nothing. And that's why I think the people's decision at the time, unfortunately I wasn't in that House, but the decision they voted for to join Croatia was right, was responsible, and the person who didn't vote for that decision obviously or didn't understand or didn't want to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56686	Defence Minister Ante Kotromanovic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56687	Thank you, Vice President. Dear representatives, a few words. For the Ministry of Defence, ISAF is certainly the most serious and complex and there is no doubt about it. A few thousand miles ten years of high risk that this mission is absolutely top priority for us. And we fully support this idea of yours to meet several committees to come to several ministers and discuss Afghanistan at all important and important points absolutely we want it because I don't want to just say that until I'm the defence minister now I don't want to bear that responsibility. In the end, you're voting for a decision that you're sending our soldiers up and I think it's certainly too little debate open, we're speaking frankly, about it and the Ministry of Defense according to these thoughts is completely transparent and wants to be open, give all the information to whoever it takes, we're always at the service of whatever it takes to cover it up. It's now our mission, our mission, and we're ready to make whatever it takes to make all of you available here and if we need to analyze the materials, I don't know, whatever. For every idea, especially this one, we support it. I want to say a few more things. We didn't have a direct attack, but it can happen every day of course upstairs. What matters to us as an old soldier, which is important, which I keep saying... this headquarters that is now, I can't command, which is that we have to, that we have to predict everything. So we have to prepare and protect people in a cycle of training and training in case... personal... that they have everything and that they can deal with the situation on the ground when it comes to it. We thank God we haven't had such incidents before, but I say we'll be worse in 2014 and something can always happen that's unplanned. It's important that we do everything, so the army as far as discipline, order is concerned, so it's strictly military tasks to do everything that's important and important, at a lower level of command, at a higher level, that the commanders know how to deal with this situation. A colleague, Djurovic, spoke about how much it cost. Yeah, absolutely, 275 million kuna costs it. We did cut back and our policy was as soon as we came to cut down one part of the mission because we allocated a lot of funds at that time and given the budget resources we had. We don't accept priors, let's say for... we said no at the beginning, we gave 1500 rifles and something ammunition and the minister... was extremely grateful. We're even thinking of sending in another piece of ammunition and weapons that we so in perspective... should destroy, pay for destruction. And the second example is the Golan High. We pulled our men out because the level of equipment down there wasn't what it should have been given the situation in Syria as it was. So it was a UN mission, and we don't want to say every time that it's some kind of mission, but we're still aware that by reducing the power in missions, we have to reinvest somewhere that power even though it costs it. The best one benefit extra value a soldier gets is somewhere else. We conduct what fellow Djurovic said and someone noticed that it is very important that we train our forces and we work on it. That's what I was saying as a parliamentary representative that we need to train here more in our own backyard. We're training a lot more in our own backyard now, so we're doing... things: individual shootings from regular numbers 1 to 6, dozens in attack, a platoon in attack. Every year, we have two drills... in an attack with combat fire. We haven't had that in 10 years. So our basic task under the Constitution is to defend the Republic of Croatia, to carry out the meaning of the constitutional task, to prepare the Armed Forces so that they can defend the Republic of Croatia. We are doing this, we are aware that we must have this balance, prepare people for operations and prepare the overall Armed Forces means... the exercises that we will also do and plan in the future on our own ground, and with other NATO countries that we will be carrying out. For example, there will be one big exercise now in Poland, so every year in another country with NATO members. We train a lot with them, too, to know with other NATO members and non-members in our space and others and give great attention to precisely the combat preparedness of the Armed Forces in general in the Republic of Croatia. That's very important to us, that's what I want to make clear. This is very important to us because I am fully aware of this condition and problem. In the end, we have good cooperation with the Foreign Ministry. Once a month we sit, we negotiate, we talk about everything about the state of defence, foreign affairs, missions of the future, the situation in missions, how to act, how to react, and on that side I have to say that I have good cooperation and I don't see there and I don't think there's gonna be any problem. Gentlemen, thank you for your patience and for the support you give I tell you with ISAF, it's a very serious operation, this is what people listen to. Soldiers very important that these people who are still on the ground, their victim is the biggest, they're separated from the family, they're 6 months up and it's not easy to keep that continuity ready for 6 months, say in one space, it's very difficult. One who was in the military realizes how difficult it is for a commander to, say, maintain this combat state, the motivation of the people after that colothene with the time in which the soldiers enter. It is very difficult, very difficult and we warn, we who are older warn on these very days when this critical period, the 4th, the 5th, the 6th month, that then the discipline must be the greatest, that the commander must be the best and therefore the very important role of the chaplain. The last time we had a great man up there, he specifically motivated people who are far away and in a situation, in a difficult situation, and it's not easy. I've been to Afghanistan, I've seen people work and train, I've even gone with them in a 50-mile patrol, and that's what people love, and that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56688	Thank you, Minister. I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the report and the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56689	Please join the vote on the agenda points we've done, discussed. The first report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia is in the ISAF Peace Support Operation in Afghanistan from 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the ISAF Peace Support Operation in Afghanistan is hereby adopted from 1 April 2012 to 31 March 2013. Please raise your hand and let us know who's behind this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed conclusion has been reached unanimously with 112 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56720	Now we'll also discuss three unitedly. Report on participation of members of the Croatian Armed Forces in the KFOR Peace Support Operation in Kosovo from 1 January 2012 to 23 March 2013 4. A proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the KFOR Peace Support Operation in Kosovo Report and a proposal for a decision was proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The debate on the report was conducted by the Defence Committee, and the provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Second Reading of the Law apply when making a decision. The proposal for a decision was implemented by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Introducing the report and defence minister Ante Kotromanovic's decision. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56721	Thank you so much, Vice President. Operation KFOR is also very important to us because it's the former Yugoslavia's space and we know everything that's been going on down there for the last few years. We also closely monitor the situation, closely track our people down. This report refers to the participation of our members in KFOR operations in rotations with a total of 84 members and with 2 MI-171 helicopters... so these are our forces that we rotate down. The contingent is located at an American base near Pristina, and I also went to see it down and that's fine. They are directly under KFOR's command on constant alert. The main tasks and activities of the Croatian contingent were air transport of people and goods, logistics support of their own forces, and participation in exercises with the aim of carrying out training and training forces to combat riots and violence. Let's say more significant events in Kosovo were the holding of representative parliamentary elections in May 2012 and the current elections that passed peacefully and without major incidents. So our forces were standing by two helicopters as I said under the command of the KFOR commander himself. And apart from a more significant presence on the ground, there were no special incidents in terms of speaking in general of the operation itself. So, logistics support and technical maintenance were at a good level, a satisfactory level. There were no problems, no health or extraordinary. And operating expenses, for example for KFOR operations for the twelfth and thirteenth year amounted to around 21 million kuna. It's about the operation itself. Just a few more sentences. So in my personal opinion, I think it is a bigger opportunity for the Croatian economy of Kosovo because it is right here. The situation in Afghanistan is such that the last time I was upstairs, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce sent a lady or lady to represent our economy there. This is very difficult to perform for purely practical reasons because they are worse and so these poor women are hit hard, and that is why it is one country that is very complex. She needs five to seven bodyguards to go out and ask how much she is accepted by these structures, Afghan structures that are quite radical in terms of gender equality. So I think there's a much better chance down there. Let's just say I often talk to people down from Kosovo, and the Slovenians are much more engaged than we are and down there is, I know that there have been calls for both our companies and our companies and we are also trying to talk through the Ministry of Defence, we are talking to their downstairs security minister about how we can help. I can only say that they buy from Croatian equipment manufacturers and we are very much engaged in consulting and helping, organising these security forces. As far as the decision itself is concerned, it is 2014. The engagement would be about the same, also two HRZ and PZ helicopters. We propose to be directed to 35 members of the Armed Forces means in this operation with the possibility of rotation of course. Financial resources are provided through, means the state budget or to the Ministry of Defence. We don't expect any special problems down there in that sense, some special, larger incidents. These are the pilots' technicians. Technicians are on base, pilots are called rotating and carrying out missions and tasked by KFOR commanders. And that's pretty good. I think it's very important and important and for political reasons we're down there. And I will ask you as agents to support the defence ministry's decision to refer our members to this operation or mission to KFOR in Kosovo in 2014. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56722	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Tanja Vrbat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56723	Thank you, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. We are discussing this united agenda item on a decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the KFOR operation in Kosovo, as well as a report on the participation of the same forces in Kosovo for the previous period from 1 January 2012 to 23 March 2013. In the beginning, let me say immediately that the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament is supporting this report, which according to decisions and legislation, was directed by the government on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo. The mandate of KFOR is based, as we well know from the UN Security Council Resolution and military-technical agreements between NATO, whose member we are and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. As KFOR operates under Chapter VII. The UN Charter of Operation is primarily necessary to highlight the peace support operation. With its participation, the Republic of Croatia makes a concrete contribution to wider international efforts to build peace and stability in its immediate regional environment. During this reporting period when we talk about the report itself, the report on the participation of the KFOR Armed Forces should be stressed that our Armed Forces with eight contingents of 23 members, nine contingents of 21 members, 10 contingents of 19 members and 11 contingents of 21 members and members were involved in these operations. On this occasion, on behalf of the Club of Representatives of the SDP, I am taking the opportunity to thank you, I believe that this thanks will be shared by other colleagues and other clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, members of the Croatian Army who are engaged in these important tasks of supporting peace in Kosovo. Our primary goal is to secure as representatives, as Government as best possible working conditions and residence to members of our Armed Forces on their own duty. During this reporting period, logistics support and technical maintenance were at a satisfactory level, and it was not more serious that it was very important to highlight health problems as well as extraordinary events related to members of our Armed Forces. The operating expenditure for KFOR operations is provided in the Ministry of Defence's financial plan for 2012 and 2013, and total expenditure is made in the amount of 21 million kuna. During this reporting period, Chief of Staff of the Armed Forces General Drago Lovric and Defence Minister Kotromanovic visited our forces in Kosovo and held talks with KFOR commanders as well as Kosovo Security Force commanders, thus giving their own support and morals to our members of the Armed Forces operating in the region. As far as logistics support and maintenance are concerned, it was also maintained within the framework of the planned. The overall maintenance and ground conditions process was primarily operational and supported by the United States as the leading nation to support infrastructure, power sources, flight support and other services used. When we talk about our two helicopters engaged there at Camp Bondsteel's helipad where most of our armed forces are stationed. During their stay in the KFOR area for this reporting period, members of our contingent had no more serious health problems or to question the functioning of their operations. Fortunately, there were no extraordinary events, although several periods of increased tensions occurred during the reporting period, such as the holding of parliamentary and presidential elections in Kosovo and, for example, the visit of Serbian President Boris Tadic to the region. The participation of members of the Armed Forces in KFOR operation in Kosovo shall primarily ensure that the Republic of Kosovo contributes to the construction of a stable and secure environment in Kosovo, also in the region, as well as the profiling of the Republic of Croatia as responsible and proactive members of NATO, which assumes its part of the burden in efforts to build peace and security in Southeast Europe. During the reporting period, members of Croatian contingents in KFOR's operation by their professional approach, their tasks and their timely and proper execution confirmed the high reputation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia for which we thank them once again. Particular attention is paid to the safety and protection of the forces of Croatian contingents and all measures have been taken to raise and maintain at the highest possible level despite the modest I would say to the budgetary opportunities to raise and maintain at the highest possible level of security and protection of our Armed Forces despite the repeated relatively modest budgetary opportunities. So, the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament is supporting the report for this term of office on the participation of the RS Armed Forces in an operation to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo. As regards the second part of this item of the agenda, namely the decision on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo for the next period, the government proposes to extend this participation which we in the SDP club certainly support. It's about up to 35 members of our armed forces. We have also received the prior consent of the Supreme Commander or the President of the Republic of Croatia and the SDP club in the Croatian Parliament will definitely support this decision. We want all members and members of our Armed Forces in Kosovo to continue to represent Croatia's state as well and quality in our region and to contribute to its peace. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56724	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Ivić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56725	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, with an associate, colleague and colleague. Immediately at the beginning, I should say that the HDZ Club will support this report on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peacekeeping support operation KFOR in Kosovo as well as a proposal for a Decision on the continued participation of members of the Armed Forces in Kosovo. I would say at the beginning that I agree with colleagues who spoke at the previous point about the need to discuss the participation of Croatian soldiers in all peacekeeping operations at the level of a number of committees and we will really try to have such a debate and organise it because there is obviously an interest in such a debate. So, let's not just come down to this military component to say this mission, but also political and every other component. And in due course, we will organise such a debate. In particular, I think that this debate would be very interesting when it comes to this mission in Kosovo because purely looking at Croatian interests, it is perhaps even more important and important than this mission in Afghanistan, which is a number of Croatian soldiers who participate at the price paid by the Croatian state much higher and more expensive than in Kosovo. But it should be taken into account the fact that Kosovo is in the immediate Croatian neighbourhood, that by participating in this mission, Croatia is very much contributing to stabilising the situation in Kosovo and that any deterioration in this sense can have an impact on the situation throughout this region and, of course, Croatia. And not to talk about how much this importance can, in economic terms, take advantage of Croatia's participation in this mission. Therefore, the operation in Kosovo for Croatia would have said of particular importance as a residual participation in other operations, although this Croatian interest here should and must be more pronounced than elsewhere. The fact is that Đurovic from the HDSSB club responded that all these missions have a price, that they cost, but the fact is that often times they cannot measure directly the benefits that the Republic of Croatia has or can have from the mission, but they should also know that participation in these missions Croatia has achieved a great deal both on credibility and on its reputation both as a member of the UN and as a member of the EU and NATO alliance. And it is good that when we discuss these reports on the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in various missions we generally agree on what this and the previous debate confirms even though we are aware of all the dangers arising from the mission. Fortunately, there have been no more serious incidents so far, but we are also aware that this is a cost for the Republic of Croatia and that it is a price that is as simple as a member of the UN and that we need to pay even more as a member of the NATO Alliance and the EU. So from all that I have said, the HDZ club will support this report on the participation of the RS Armed Forces in Kosovo, as well as a proposal for a decision on further participation in the KFOR operation in Kosovo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56726	Thank you. Replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56727	Thank you very much. You have well noticed that any mission of the military mission of the Republic of Croatia, anywhere abroad, can bring and not indirectly, given the cost of the cost but direct benefits. So direct, indirect in order to sometimes be useful, and most of all this applies to Kosovo, which is close to us in its geographical location, is sometimes in the same country and given the large number of people living here from Kosovo. So then the participation of the Republic of Croatia in a military mission in Kosovo is of particular importance. So there's more to it than that. in Somalia, Chad or I don't know where. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56728	The reply to the replica Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56729	I agree with my colleague Grubisic with you. I have said and I think that this is a fact that Kosovo is of particular interest to the Republic of Croatia in every respect from political, economic and that we should pay particular attention to this mission, but perhaps more in this other aspect, therefore, to the economy because there is a chance and opportunity for Croatia to take advantage of the position Croatia has in the KFOR mission in Kosovo as a member of the EU and NATO alliance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56730	On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56731	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning, the HNS club will also support the work report in the past year and the decision to continue participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the KFOR mission for the same reasons that we support and engagement of our people in Afghanistan. And this is what is extremely important for us at the HNS, an operation conducted on the basis of internationally legally valid decisions has been adopted by the UN Resolution on the mandate and the launch of this mission. Equally valid 2008 decision The Croatian Parliament has decided that members of the Croatian Armed Forces should be directed to Kosovo. In addition to what is a feature of all the participations of our members in international peace and military operations, which is the rise of the international reputation of the Republic of Croatia's participation in the repression of terrorism in operations aimed at achieving greater security and peace in the world, this operation has special meaning for the Republic of Croatia, which has also been cited by some of the previous speakers, which is to raise the level of security in the nearest environment of the Republic of Croatia and create the assumption of lasting peace in areas that have long been, or not so long ago, the scene of very severe and bloody conflicts, and which are potentially unless things are kept under control and in the long term do not resolve the potential of new instability in the nearest environment of the Republic of Croatia. It is clear that if the level of security was changed and any escalation occurred that the Republic of Croatia would have indirect if not direct consequences, because of the reduction in the level of security, it would, of course, decrease the scope of economic activities, potential investments, investments and everything else. As the experiences recorded in the very report on our people's participation of these two flight crews with the accompanying staff and some of our people who have participated in the work of headquarters are positive, and we cannot say that there have been some serious threats to their safety, as they have also shown a very high level of professionalism in these missions, we support decision-making. The funds that have been spent over the past period for which we are given a report of 21 million kunas are not small funds, but I will return once again and not be burned, participation in these missions is our pain and our debt to that defence system that guarantees our safety and which puts us in a position not to have to enter significant investments in modernising and equipping the Armed Forces as much as we would have to be condemned to self-sufficient defence capacity. So by participating in such missions, we pay our rent to NATO membership, and NATO membership to the alliance, let's just say, in the context of the acquisition of a fighter squadron at this point, releases investments that would amount to hundreds and hundreds of millions of euros. And through this context we should also look at the financial resources allocated from the Croatian budget. The decision foresees, unlike previous to 35 members, that there is a potential variant in which we would be in a position in this truly minimal share that we need to increase by several of our people in this mission, the HNS Club will also support this decision, with the wish that both our people in the next year professionally and with full security do their job as representatives of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56732	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB representative club, colleague Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56733	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, MPs and MPs. The KFOR mission of the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the mission of maintaining or supporting KFOR peace in Kosovo for our club, the HDSB Club is indeed one mission of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia that has our support since the beginning and in the following year, undoubtedly. The mission is indeed specific because it is a NATO peacekeeping mission in the JI Europe area directly, so in one geostrategic space and in the space of a country that is a friendly country for the Republic of Croatia, which the Republic of Croatia has recognised, the state that is still relatively fragile and the state that needs international support to maintain stability and establish some kind of stable relationship between the majority people and the Serb minority in Kosovo. In this context and the participation of the international community, but also the participation of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace mission is certainly welcome. The interest of the Republic of Croatia is therefore not only armed, not only as regards the elements of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia participating, which is the Croatian Air Force through this mission are very recognizable. The Republic of Croatia and the Republic of Kosovo have a relatively good trade balance, we have a significant surplus in trade, a large number of people from Kosovo live and Albanians live in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Many people, including some leaders of the country, speak Croatian and in fact there is a lot of link between Croatia and Kosovo. Therefore, we are also due to the geostrategic position and the fact that we have lived in the common state, we are in fact mandatory in all ways that we can as a state help stabilise opportunities in Kosovo and through participation in KFOR, but not simply exhausting ourselves on participating in KFOR's operation. As far as the HDSB's Club of Representatives is concerned, in any case, the participation in this operation has been supported by the fact that it may be only specific how this component was found, perhaps the minister did not explain enough that this particular component, which is practically the weakest or one of the weakest components of the Armed Forces, was found precisely in this peace operation. It might be convenient for the minister to explain a little more how this component, or HRZ, these two aircraft and some staff, were found in the operation itself. In any case, support for the participation of the Croatian Armed Forces in the KFOR operation in Kosovo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56734	Thank you. And in an individual debate, colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56735	Thank you very much. Very short. In addition to what I said in the previous debate concerning the participation of Croatian Armed Forces in KFOR mission in Kosovo, my colleague Baranovic spoke about the position of the club, I would like to join colleagues who spoke and declared that they, their clubs, play a very important role in the participation of the Armed Forces in Kosovo and for several reasons, primarily because of the importance of our troops' participation in the region. The importance of the security of the region is immeasurable because everything reflects directly on us, it is our narrow region, it is our closest region, everything reflects on the security and stability of the Republic of Croatia and our contribution to security and stability is, if it is as active as it is, practically immeasurable. Secondly, because of the political situation itself and the sensitivity of the political situation in Kosovo, we all know how sensitive this issue is right now, how much resistance and recent local elections have shown some instability, and that this is certainly an important support for stability and security in Kosovo. This participation and special participation in the northern part of Kosovo, and as far as I have information, our soldiers along with those two helicopters are one bright spot for the entire KFOR mission in Kosovo. And another component that I think is important is our commitment to help those who seek and need help, which is at this point all Kosovo residents. I think it's our duty as a country in any way we can, to help them live in as secure an environment as possible and as best as possible. As head of the Croatian Parliamentary Assembly of NATO, I was simply forced to participate in various NATO Parliamentary Assembly forums, forums that treat NATO's security policies and security policies in the world, and so one of the topics of the Western Balkans and Kosovo were recently held at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Dubrovnik, and we are discussing the security situation in Kosovo and it is very important that Mr. Rasmussen's message that until the security situation in northern Kosovo is stable, the number of troops currently standing in Kosovo will not be reduced. So the message also speaks of the situation in Kosovo as to how important it is to be present, as well as NATO's readiness to be a full member of Croatia, NATO's readiness to act in this area and to act until peace and stability is ensured. And in any case, Croatia should be actively involved for all those reasons, and for all those things that previous colleagues have said and I clearly accept the report and the future representation of our Armed Forces in the KFOR mission.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56736	I'm closing the debate. A report and a proposal for a decision. What? Who? Uh-huh. Excuse me, colleague Grubisic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56737	Coli Blazekovic, I wanted to say that in that first part, I did not have the opportunity to mention that stability in Kosovo has long since been assessed by Kissinger as Kosovo's powder barrel, and this has exploded, and we later know about the US attacks and the participation of the US military and other allies in Kosovo. However, I must say that any disturbance in this sense, a disturbance of this stability would certainly reflect, for example, the tourism of the Republic of Croatia. Because it's close, it's very close, so the territory that's very close to our coast and our country. Secondly, when you were talking about stationing our forces, then here in this material I read all the time except to say in the opening of this report where Uroševac writes, so the Uroševac cartoon Ferizaj. Later in the further part of the text there are no more Ferizais, only Uroshevac remains. Since your government strongly insists and insists on respecting the Constitutional law on bilingualism, on two letters, etc. I think that this material should also respect the Albanian language, which is the majority language in Kosovo, i.e. the Albanians are the majority, so that Ferizai is written just as Uroševac. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56738	Reply to the replica Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56739	I would just like to point out that this absolutely this report and translations or non-translation of the city has nothing to do with bilingualism in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56740	And now I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the report and the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56741	Please let's go next. A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the KFOR Peace Support Operation in Kosovo from 1 January 2012 to 23 March 2013. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the next conclusion. A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in an operation to support KFOR's peace in Kosovo from 1 January 2012 to 23 March 2013. Please raise your hand so we can state who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find the proposed conclusion has been reached unanimously with 111 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56764	We'll also discuss 5 unitedly. A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "EU NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta" from July 2009 to September 2013 was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The hearing was conducted by the Defence Committee, and you received a report at the session. These six. Proposal for a decision on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "EU NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta" is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a proposal for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Second Reading of the Law shall apply in the decision-making process, and the hearing shall be carried out by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. Introductory arguments will be given by Defence Minister Ante Kotromanovic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56765	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here is the latest report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces in the EU Peace Support Operation operation, which is important to highlight Somalia – Atalanta from July 2009 to September 2013. So this is the only operation, a military operation where we participate with forces, means EU operations, and this is very important for us to stress that we have to take care of this balance, that we naturally participate in these EU operations. That is not, there are members and non-members, for example, NATO and not even EU members who, some claim to become and that is an interesting operation that we have been in for several years. So, the main objectives of the operation are the protection of vessels carrying humanitarian aid to Somalia, as well as the protection and control of criminal activities, piracy and armed robbery from the Somalia area. I can only say that during 2012, there were about 36 pirate attacks, and in 2013, only one and that very failed was until the end not realized. What I also want to say is that we are a maritime nation, a Croatian nation, that our ships are sailing down, that our sailors are on ships and Croatian and foreign, sailing under foreign flags and captains and seamen, and that in one way it is very important for us and for us to do this operation for the protection and safety of that part of the sea, which is very important in terms of trade and economic development of all EU members and non-EU members. So far, 19 members of the Armed Forces have participated. They are mostly officers of the Croatian Army who are assigned to something in command, something by ship while, say, an officer is deployed to a naval logistics base in Gibuti. So there's this operation that's being performed at sea and there's an operation that's going on land, too. We don't participate in that operation, we didn't plan to. And that's what pleases us right now. As far as the report itself is concerned, we have spent 5 million and 200 thousand kuna on the operation in the past. These are mostly the meanings of these journals for people we give, the training of course they must go before and below we have no specific problems, no safety problems, no health care, and everything is going in the best order. As far as the decision itself is concerned, we'd like to, it depends on you, stay in that operation. We think that this is important and important, that this contributes to the EU's ability to command in crisis situations and also confirms our maritime tradition and the interest we have in preserving the airworthiness and safety of trade routes as a maritime country. We also suggest that we engage a little more strongly in the next period and increase the possibility of members of the Armed Forces to 25 from 20 to 25 members to now. This mainly refers to an autonomous ship protection team that would be boarded, for example, on a World Food Programme commercial ship and thus would naturally protect it from pirate attacks. That's something new compared to the previous task we've been carrying out and the forces we've been sending down. It's a plan and it only applies to six months and then it rotates. Most NATO countries have been down, let's just say for example that even Serbia plans to send one such protection team and send it to one of the merchant ships. Therefore, it means that members who are neither NATO nor the EU are participating. I don't think it's a risky mission, they'll be under weapons of course our soldiers but they'll be trained and ready to respond to any tasks. The experiences that other countries have, the Dutch, the Germans say, with them we've talked a lot to them are very positive. So, you're doing rotations up to six months and that's it. We think that there might be no more need to refer to such a team, but we also want to see how we want to see this task, we want to learn something from that task. The funds have been provided with meanings in the State budget for 2014 at the division of the Ministry of Defence, and here I am asking you to support this proposal for a Decision to refer up to 25 people to a peace support operation in "Somalia-Atalanta". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56766	Thank you, Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56767	Thank you, Vice President, honourable ministers with assistants, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. Unfortunately, pirates are not only seductive male stars of Hollywood films, although Somali pirates like actors of the film industry are well-organised, almost corporate-organised businesses. Almost all pirates are recruited in failed Somali cities among children who are hungry and without any perspective wandering the streets. The notorious pirates just like Captain Jack Sparrow or Johnny Depp for these youngsters are heroes or celibities. Kidnapping can bring at least two million dollars, some of which account for over 10 million. The biggest known was $13.5 million. Pirates are paid a percentage of the ransom on the spot. Yet pirates are persons who commit violence at sea, traffic routes, and sea shores without authority and for their own benefit. The attacked ships transport oil or food on strategic waterways from the Middle East to Asia and the geographical area is very suitable for hiding and guerrilla attacks. For a long time since 2008, this has not only been a local problem but an international problem and a threat to international security because it affects 20% of world trade in strategic raw materials. The UN Security Council has characterised piracy as a threat to world peace. Operation Atalanta was launched in accordance with UN Security Council Resolutions 1814, 1816, 1838 and 1846 2008 to primarily protect ships carrying food to Somalia. On 10 November 2008, a decision was taken on the implementation of the peace operation. The decision also defines the mandate of the European Union peace operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA" which includes the protection of ships, the protection of merchant ships, the surveillance of the coastal area of Somalia and the taking of necessary steps including the use of the force of deterrence, prevention and intervention to end acts of piracy. What's most important, colleagues and colleagues, is that the success of this action is more than obvious. As early as 2009, the number of pirate attacks was lower by 19%. No more attacks on ships carrying humanitarian aid to Somalia have been reported. In 2012, piracy was reduced by 78% in Somalia compared to 2011. There were only 36 pirate attacks, while in the first half of 2013, only one was recorded and that one was failed. But it is also said that Somali pirates hold a large number of hostages, and this summer it was estimated to be at least 78. Some of them have held for more than 2 years and are using cruel and sadistic methods to extort their ransom. By decision of the EU Council of 23 March 2012 the mandate of the Atalanta Peace Operation was extended until December 2014. The armed forces of the Republic of Croatia are participating in the EU Peace Operation Somalia-Atalanta starting in 2009 with five members of the Armed Forces, 19 in 2013 and up to 25 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia, with the possibility of rotation in 2014 according to the decision we are discussing today. The total cost from 2009 to 2013 or until September 2013 was around 5.3 million kuna. Participation in the EU Peace Operation Somalia-Atalanta of the Republic of Croatia is confirmed as a full member of the EU as a maritime country and as a country with stable political and military credibility. Therefore, the SDP club supports this report and the proposal for a decision on participation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56768	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Tomislav Ivić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56769	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club as well as in the previous two points will also support this report on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in the EU's Support for Peace operation NAVFOR Somalia-Atalanta as well as a proposal for a decision on the continued participation of members of the Armed Forces. This was said by a mission which, as the minister said, is significant in itself because, in the EU organisation and on the other hand, we should look at it, since we are an EU member, and on the other hand, this is an operation that proved itself to be an extremely successful operation, which was said by a few words and by fellow Spoljar, which speaks to the number of attacks recorded in 2011, 2010, and when compared to the number of attacks in 2013, when I was one and it was unsuccessful, and the illustrations for 2010 were 174 attacks itself saying how successful and effective this operation is, and especially because in some way this operation of the EU Somalia-Atalanta is in some way and humanitarian because the primary objective of this operation is to protect vessels carrying humanitarian aid to Somalia and ships that provide logistical support to the African Union's forces to protect the vessels that are passing through the area of operations, protecting and combating criminal activities, piracy and surveillance in the areas of Somalium in front of Solying activities. The Republic of Croatia has been participating in this operation since 2009 and it is not by the number of our members participating in a major operation. Up until now, only 19 members of the armed forces have participated in the past four years. However, we will now decide that you and the possibility of increasing up to 25 members in 2014. I think it's justified, in particular, by respecting these two facts that I said it was an EU operation and the second that it was an extremely successful operation. And it should also be noted that the Republic of Croatia is a maritime country and that by participating in this operation it confirms its maritime tradition and identity and interest which it has in preserving the airworthiness and safety of trade routes as a maritime country. The participation of members of the Croatian Navy is useful from the point of view of the acquisition of practical knowledge and experience in the exercise of ship's duties as well as in the main work. So from all that I've said and from what we've heard from both Minister and colleague or colleague Spoljar, I think this report should be supported as well as a proposal for a decision on further participation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56770	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS representative's club, counterpart Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56771	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. Mr. Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. As in the previous two points, the exact same dark motives for which the HNS will support this decision and also this report, noting that this mission is in some way for our members who are involved may be the most fugitive, most harmless, and in any case is a security factor for the people we send there much bigger than for Afghanistan. It is also based on relevant decisions by the UN and, in particular, on the EU which decided to enter this mission with its form of organisation involving members of our Armed Forces and, especially now, in the situation when we became after that final accession phase when we became an EU member country, of course, it is expected that in situations where the EU is taking certain steps are involved by our people. The problem has arisen by escalating piracy in the area of water along the coast of Somalia, resulting in significant material damage, an increase in shipping trains, but also by a situation in which dozens and hundreds of seamen ended up in the hands of pirates and experienced the fate of hostages, some of whom today have been deprived of freedom. Croatia as a member of the UN, as signatories of the International Convention on the Law of the Sea and of all other relevant international agreements affecting directly and indirectly piracy and navigation security, is simply obliged to participate in such missions in international law and, therefore, our participation is absolutely justified. When considering the cost aspect of the number of members of the 5.3 million kuna to resolve such a commitment that we have in front of us as a sovereign maritime land is not such a significant sum, and it is not to be excluded to mention that it is good for the Republic of Croatia that its officers gain a certain experience, an experience that is specific because on their daily peacetime tasks in the Adriatic Sea, they do not have such experience where to come from and it is good for our people to go through such situations and to adopt such special knowledge and behaviour protocols in such specific situations. The decision to increase that is to create a legal framework for the possible increase in the number of our officers and officers in these operations to 25 is logical, with the hope that successfully, together with European colleagues and other colleagues from the world's Navy, they will work effectively and successfully to combat piracy and any other unwanted occurrences in international maritime transport, that they will contribute to increasing the safety of transport and passengers and goods and the safety of crews of merchant ships of sovereign countries, the HNS Club welcomes this decision and wishes our boys a peaceful sea. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56772	On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56773	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Secretary with an assistant or a deputy, colleagues and fellow MPs. When it came to the participation of the Croatian Navy or the people of the Croatian Navy 4.5 years ago, therefore the human potential, in the naval operation of Atalanta, I was sincerely speaking for this speaker suspiciously. However, when we look at the results of this operation, namely the protection of the maritime road, starting with the Suez Canal, the Red Sea, or its southern part, the Ademic Gulf and the Seause and parts of the Indian Ocean along with the Sea and the coast of Somalia, then we see that this operation may indeed be the most successful of all the military operations carried out by the European Union or the NATO Pact, and in which Croatian forces participate, not with a large number. So far since 6 July 2009, 19 Croatian soldiers, or officers, have participated on ships of the United Kingdom, France, the Netherlands, Northern Ireland, who patrolled and controlled this very waterway, the shortest waterway between India, China, Indonesia, so countries in the Pacific Ocean and the Mediterranean continue to the Atlantic Ocean through the Suez Canal. So statistics show that in 2009 and 2011, it was exactly the same, after 174 pirate attacks on merchant ships sailing in the area of Operation Atalanta. During 2012, 36 pirate attacks were reported, and in the first half of 2013, only 1 and that failed attack was made, which says precisely that there was a power imbalance precisely in favour of the international forces patrolling and controlling this part of the sea on our globe. Croatian officers were involved in saying so personally, without any additional equipment and no ships, on other foreign ships, and that is a good experience. It is obviously a good experience for them, starting with, speaking in all segments, from therefore practical experience, not to mention training and communication of language, conversation and everything else that will certainly be useful for the Croatian Navy once these people return to the Croatian Navy. But what I was saying back then in 2009 is that it was necessary to study the causes and causes of this piracy and then act. So this time, we can tell this one military repression, but it's quite certain that there were other ways to calm the sea not only because pirates have to leave the land, so they don't stay at sea all the time, they don't have an aircraft carrier, they have pirate ships. So with the action and political action of helping Somalia by stabilising the government of Somalia, then by acting from the base in Gibuti and the US and German bases in that area, there was a calming and a significant, almost certain, almost insurance of the maritime road I was talking about. That's why I'm not going to say that I'm changing my mind, but actually when you see the result and the success of this, then my doubts about the justification of sending out Croatian officers, soldiers from the Croatian Navy actually, here I have to say, I'm not going to say that I'm having an ash shower, but to say that it was quite justified what's good. Now we have to say no to the proposal, I can say a proposal for an increase or a possibility to send up to 25 soldiers. So far there have been 19 of them over four and a half years, and in 2014, it is proposed that up to 25 Croatian Navy officers can be directed into this area of the world on warships to say world warships, let's say the maritime forces that operate within this operation and support EU NAVFOR – Somalia, in fact, let's shorten Atalanta as it is actually called this maritime reaction. Operation, sorry. The funding of our soldiers as it says here was totalling 5 million and 300,000 kuna. Let's round up about 700,000 euros, when we compare it to other actions, there is also a number of soldiers but there is equipment there, etc. We can say it's not that much. So the HDSSB Club will also accept this report, and support the plan to send sufficient numbers of officers and soldiers to Somalia through Operation Atalanta, which is up to 25. So it's probably not going to be 25, but as we have so far a total of 19, but one year is one, the second year is 7, one year is 4, a total of 19. So here's the stabilization in this area again, and I stress that not only did it come to the naval blockade, the military forces of these countries, but there was also that praise of the sea, it's holding the end, so there were certain operations and certain activities that led to a calming in that, on that horn of Africa in East Africa, and we don't hear any more news with a lot of bombings and everything that's been going on in Somalia. The news has become much, much more widespread. All in all, thank God wherever there is unrest would be better peace, so here we are in Somalia. And here we are, we can say that we are part of this peace process, peace operation, and once again the HDSSB club is in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56774	Thank you. And in an individual debate, colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56775	Thank you very much. As far as the club's debate is concerned, I support everything clearly said by my colleague Baranovic, and I would look back in a slightly different way. Namely, as head of the Croatian delegation at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, I had the opportunity to personally witness anti-piracy actions on the edge of Africa, specifically in Gibuti, the former French colony, France's Somalia. We fifteen parliamentarians led by the head of the transatlantic defence subcommittee of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly of the British Lord John Steinli who was otherwise the defence minister at the time of Margaret Thatcher and during... The war. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In four extremely intense days and with the main household of the French military base, the oldest base, for one time the only base we met with ambassadors accredited to Gibuti, Germany, the United States, France and the EU, French admirals, generals, Vice-Admiral Christian Khanov then deputy commander of NATO mission... We've reminded the French military base, the American military base, the Japanese military base, which is the only military base outside Japan, and that's the one in Gibuti, and the Danish frigate that one of these three latest series that sails in NATO. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We were on a curtous visit to the Jibuti Parliament and to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Gibuti. Personally, I must admit that I was impressed with the knowledge of the abundance and presence of various armies in the North Indian Ocean area or the area of probably the densest maritime waterway in the world, the road leading to the Red Sea, or through the Suze Channel in the Mediterranean and vice versa. There are four international group missions supported by the UN Resolution. It's an African Union mission as an autonomous mission, a joint naval force... EU Operation NAVFOR and Atalanta where we are members and NATO operations... [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] where we're not in that operation. [[The speaker speaks English, of course.]] These missions have been set up with the primary aim of protecting ships carrying humanitarian aid to African countries, but the objective has been expanded and missions aim to combat piracy entirely in the area. But other than these UN-sponsored missions involving 40 countries, there are also China, India, the Islamic Republic of Iran, Japan, Kenya, Malaysia, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa and Yemen. It's quite impressive and obviously that when the forces join together then it sort of sort of, some kind of mission can actually succeed. They include numerous private security companies serving the same purpose of stopping and fighting piracy. In fact, every modern state has a duty to protect its sailors and ships, and that is what the public expects of every government of the endangered states. The countries are governed by international regulations and regulations of international maritime law. Pirateism in the area lasts long, but has really worried the world's public in 2008. By then, Somali fishermen had attacked a smaller boat, a yacht, where they had robbed what could have been robbed on yachts and smaller ships. Since 2008, the piracy of Somali fishermen has become a local leader and tribe since 2008. The peak of piracy takes place in 2010, 2011 when it stops and blackmails between 150 and 180 merchant ships and is asked by shipowners for a huge ransom of up to five million dollars. The leaders of piracy show unusual cruelty and against their pirates those who send them to do so. They send them with relatively small fishing boats, poorly equipped with little food and water and relatively weak weapons of fuel only in one direction. So also because of the inability to continue surviving pirates are directed to attack, capture, theft and finally blackmail merchant ships and yachts passing through. Piratery in the Indian Ocean can be said to be a seasonal job because it lasts in time while the ocean is completely calm in the postmonsoon era. With the coming of the monsoon... it stopped then. As a result of such a large number of military and security agencies, piracy fell by 80% in 2012 and this year, what has already been said to date has been only one attack and it has failed. Military ships today take more merchant ships into a convoy and often follow them with helicopter support until entering the Red Sea. clear anti-insurgency missions with our UN and EU and NATO engagement are also moving to the mainland. In addition to limited military actions, intelligence solutions are trying to find leaders and participants in piracy. The training of Somalia and Jibuti's maritime forces is being established and an effective judiciary is being established for the quality and effective processing of pirates. The goal is also to establish better relations with the Somalian government. in that environment, Croatia sent and sent troops to the EU NAVFOR Atalanta Mission. I believe that, apart from the priority objective of protecting Croatian shipboats and protecting Croatian sailors, the deployment of Croatian soldiers and the increase in the number of soldiers can make a significant contribution to Croatia's leadership in important world events. In such missions there are various specific experiences that enrich further training of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. Also in these missions, our soldiers meet with the most modern defense technologies. In focal positions, they learn and practice ways of modern defence methods in direct communication with their counterparts from all NATO member states and in this specific case the EU. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56776	I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the report and the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56777	Report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA" from July 2009 to September 2013. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the participation of members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia in the peace support operation "EU NAVFOR SOMALIA-ATALANTA" from July 2009 until September 2013. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 111 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56792	We're going to skip point 7 because we don't have the conditions because there are no proposings and we're going to discuss: 8. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 494 Law enforcement is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the report at the session. Introducing the draft law, Deputy Economy Minister Mr. Allen Leveric will explain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56793	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act. The 2011 Public Procurement Act has been in force since 1.1.2012. During the implementation of the applicable law, certain problems related to its application have been identified. The mandatory application of the Public Procurement Act... whose estimated value is greater than 70,000 kuna without VAT has been generally shown in terms of the level of that limit irrationally and economically questionable if a certain relation to administrative burdens has been imposed, the costs of carrying out those procedures in relation to the benefits achieved by their application. Public procurement rules at EU level are laid down in Directives 18 of 2004 for public contracting authorities and 17 of 2004 for sectoral contracting authorities. Member States shall ensure that the rules laid down in this Directive are applied, inter alia, and above the following rules. Public contractors between 130m and 200m euros for goods and services and 5m euros for work. Sectoral contractors of 400,000 euros for goods and services and 5m euros for work. By prescribing public procurement rules under European rules, it is within the competence of the Member States themselves, but subject to compliance with the principles laid down in the founding contracts or the principles of free movement of horns, freedom of business and freedom to provide services, competition with equal treatment, prohibitions of discrimination and mutual recognition, proportionality and transparency. Practices in EU countries are Slovakia's thresholds of 30 thousand euros for the purchase of goods and services, or 120 thousand euros for the purchase of works. In Hungary, the thresholds are slightly higher than 166,000 euros for goods and services and about 333 thousand euros for work. Following these procurement procedures, works and services for public and sectoral contracting authorities are dependent on the EU Member State, various ways have been arranged within the framework of the principles set out in the founding contracts, or in line with the legal property of the EU, which includes public procurement directives. Therefore, one of the basic issues to be regulated by this law is the height of the national threshold for which there is no obligation to apply the law. It should be pointed out that that national threshold of 70,000 kuna for so-called ‘. The Commission notes that the measures provided for in this Regulation are in accordance with the opinion of the Standing Committee on Plants, Animals, Food and Feed, Following this above, and before the adoption of this proposal, the Ministry of Economy carried out an analysis of the national thresholds of EU Member States from environments under which no national rules for public procurement so-called "public procurement" apply. Adequate procurement as well as comparisons of national thresholds and GDP to the head of the population in order to compare to relevant data for the Republic of Croatia. Taking into account the practice of EU Member States or their thresholds, the conclusion is that the national threshold in the Republic of Croatia above which it is binding... The public procurement law should be increased which would result in a more effective implementation of the procurement procedure in a certain way. Based on the results obtained from the analysis and taking into account specific national circumstances, the new proposals for the bagatel threshold have been defined. Therefore, the basic issues covered by this law are an increased threshold, the threshold for procurement for works for the purposes of diplomatic and consular representations is adjusted for works alone up to the value of 3.5 million kuna and below is applied to the rules on public procurement in diplomatic missions and consular offices of the Republic of Croatia abroad, the possibility of joint procurement is opened through the central procurement bodies established in another EU Member State, which is particularly related to specific procurement in compliance with obligations under international agreements. For example. Agreement establishing a functional airspace block of Central Europe for the purposes of Croatian air navigation control. Contracts on public works for the construction of facilities intended for a culture which is subsidised or co-financed by public authorities with more than 50%, as these facilities are neither covered nor covered by Article 8. EU Parliament and Council Directives 18 of 31 March 2004. It shall be possible for tenderers or competitors who are in the pre-departure procedure not to be automatically excluded from the procurement procedure if they have settled tax and other prescribed duties resulting from the opening of a pre-departure settlement, and given the intensity of the Financial Business Act and the pre-banking agreement which is the recovery of those economic operators. In accordance with business practices... construction works are regulated by the question of establishing the total cost of the works carried out through the final calculation and the possibility of deviation from the original interpretation of labour prices, given the fact that there are almost always certain changes in the course of construction. Redefined charges for the initiation of the appeal procedure and the margin of the estimated value of the purchase on which the amount of the compensation depends. The issue of limitation is brought into line with the Criminal Law, some legal technical shortcomings are corrected and the provisions relating to the period until the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia have been deleted, and have become unnecessary since 1 July 2013. The following is proposed to the Croatian Parliament to accept the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56794	Thank you, too. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? On behalf of the Committee on Economy, the chairman of the Committee, Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56795	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, allow me to brief you on the committee's position on these amendments and amendments to the law. The Committee was therefore held at its meeting on 6 November 29th and on the basis of Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the home working body discussed this proposal and pointed out in its opening statement by the proposing representative that in the Republic of Croatia, nearly 40 billion kuna were concluded in the previous year together with the VAT of public procurement, from which the importance of public procurement in the Croatian economy is visible. A number of law-related issues have been raised in the debate itself, and among other things, a questionable solution has been assessed by which companies that are in the pre-fashion settlement process can participate in the public procurement process even though they have outstanding tax debts to the state, and then a proposal has been put in place to build on the possibility of using Internet banking in the payment of guarantees. In the same way, a large increase in the threshold for the supply of goods and services as well as for the supply of works has been assessed in several discussions, and the complaint was made at the level of the fee for the initiation of the appeal procedure, and it is suggested to find a model that will point to those complainants who file a complaint without a reasonable reason and for the delay of the proceedings. After the discussion, the majority of the board members made a point by which this law should be referred to the first reading procedure in order to get as high-quality answer as possible to the question asked, and some of them I told you and you have in detail the report itself. Therefore, at the end of its debate with 9 votes in favour and 1 abstention, the Committee concluded that the Croatian Parliament was proposed to take a decision to carry out the debate in the first reading under the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56796	I'm opening a debate. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56797	... counterpart Radjenovic did not read the key thing from the board, which is that this law on the board did not pass because he received 5 votes for, 4 were against, 1 was abstention. And another thing, the Proposer, in accordance with our Rules of Procedure, should have made a statement in the opening statement on the proposal of the Committee on Economy. So we didn't get either, so I'm only asking for the record to get into the record.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56798	Thank you. You got the report in writing and that's what it says. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, a colleague of Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56799	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Public procurement is a public procurement obligation for public and legal proceedings on the purchase of goods, services and works, and so as not to favour public procurement providers and bonds in providing jobs to certain bidders and this kind of public money. The Public Procurement Act of 15 July 2011 entered into force on 1 January 2012 and the amendments adopted on 21 June 2013 entered into force on 9 July 2013 and did not cover all the necessary amendments in the opinion of the applicant. I have the ability to convince these amendments and additions or comment, I have decided on behalf of the SDP Club, and that is how it was somehow conducted and the debate on the board to comment and to state what we have asked for this law to go into two readings. Although it is very important to increase the limit so-called. However, it is important to note that EU directives listed in this amendment and complementarity, as well as the restrictions applicable to the European Union, are indeed thresholds below which the applicant and the Member States themselves can go. Member States, by respecting the principles of freedom of movement of goods, freedom of business, freedom to provide services, equal treatment, competition principles, principles of non-discrimination, principles of mutual recognition, principles of proportionality, principles of transparency, may set limits for public and sectoral contracting authorities above which procurement procedures will be carried out, as exemptions from public procurement in certain cases. In an explanation of the law, it is interpreted as being so-called. It has not changed the supply since 2008 and that current restrictions create difficulties for business entities, public contracting authorities, state, county and local and also companies and institutions owned by them. It is important to look individually at individual solutions or exceptions that these amendments and additions of laws make, and then I would start to say what I think is a little bit of a problem. Therefore, the requirement to increase the restrictions on exemptions from procurement contracts to public procurement for goods and services from 70 to 200 thousand kuna and for works from 70 to 500 thousand kuna is a little too much jump for our business environment. Respecting the possibility of manipulation and corrupting, this would allow a large number of entities, especially in local self-government units, and sometimes also in the counties, to treat the abject procurement of almost most of the public procurements they have had to carry out so far, especially if they have the ability to treat them as unrelated actions. Since it is clear to us that European restrictions on public and sectoral contracting authorities have been established, however, we have in the area of the countries that have limited the purchasing of goods under the threshold prescribed in the European Union. It also states in these amendments and additions to the laws of Italy, Hungary, Slovenia. It may be necessary to raise the value of the bagatel procurement here in particular, but let's say for all 200 thousand kunas, or let's say 200 thousand kunas for goods and services to 300 thousand kuna. I can't deal with it here, of course, it would have to be a profession, so those who are proposing but to be in line with the financial flows and the opportunities of the economy. And it's a big limit, but it's more in agreement with the economic situation. Secondly, contracts for public works for the construction of cultural objects shall be exempt from the application of this law if the contracting authorities subsidise or co-finance more than 50%. These facilities are not covered by EU Parliament and Council directives and decisions. Third significant change, this law provides for the possibility of joint procurement through the central procurement bodies established in another Member State of the European Union, which is related to specific procurement issues in meeting obligations under international agreements. So here we heard also from Deputy Minister, Croatian Flight Control, so a functional air traffic block for Central Europe. Fourthly, this law deletes points relating to the time of accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, so for a transitional period, such points are no longer necessary, so they were necessary to remove them from the law. Now, the restrictions on the launch of the procurement procedure are changed and only for public works in diplomatic and consular offices from 900 thousand kuna so far to 3.5 million kuna. So here the threshold has been increased four times and only through this amount is the Public Procurement Act applied. I believe that this amount is the same with some calculation, I wouldn't calculate with it, but I also assume that, as well as the threshold for the outward purchase, he also defined what was subsequently expressed and what I'm going to talk about, these are the fees and restrictions for the initiation of the appeal. The sixth, is now defined by the deadline within which the contracting authority is to submit an explanation related to the documentation for the competition, and in order to avoid any objections in the interpretation of this particular provision in the case of possible complaints. The seventh, in particular, issue regulated by this law is in Article 10 of these amendments, which relate to Article 67. The public procurement law provides that the contracting authority is obliged to exclude from the procurement procedure of the tenderer unless it fulfils the obligation to pay the tax obligations and obligations due to pension and health insurance, unless it is granted, under a special law, to postpone or pay those obligations, and, as the case may be, in the pre-departure settlement procedure. The Proposer argues that this provision is in line with the Public Procurement Act with the Financial Business Act and the Pre-accession Arrangement. The applicant here shall comply with the provisions that the debtor of the business entity must not pay the obligations which occurred and reached before the date of the opening of the pre-demand settlement procedure, other than those referred to in Article 17(2), paragraph 1, 6 and 7 of that Act. It also calls for the intention or need to heal economic operators in the pre-demand settlement process and the need not to automatically exclude them from public procurement procedures because, as they were not able to pay tax debts and insurance. Everything would be fine if this provision wasn't discriminatory. Efforts to help economic operators The Financial Business Act and the pre-departure settlement procedure are conditionally stated by sick companies. What guarantees these companies can face is a question that opens up to ensure a good performance of jobs because these changes are exactly how they stand. Well, then I guess we wouldn't be in the pre-demand settlement process because they don't have the means or the possibilities or guarantees for normal business. I think that in this way we might also unwittingly get jobs that they are not prepared to do in terms of their execution. Such an opinion and attitude do not go against such companies but the fact that they did not come overnight to the situation in which they are financially and economically. And the point of public procurement is a fair competition non-performing, non-discrimination. Eight. These amendments to the laws of Article 12 shall establish and apply pozances, i.e. customs, and the basis of the provisions of the Law on Mandatory Relations and Practices themselves. For example, a custom in construction. So, not only in the documentation for the contest, but also in the drawing up of the contract. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The public procurement law states that it can be deducted from the cost of works carried out in construction in accordance with business practices and practices, often having to deal with problems and reconstructions in construction for different reasons. These reasons increase the price of purchases outstandingly. This allows for an increase in investment costs. But it would be good to get to know each other again, and there is now one question that has brought about such deviations. If it came for some regular, common reasons, then it's correct. But who will define the different reasons that occur almost always during construction. It's a situation that happens, but it's not defined and it can and doesn't have to be. Or this possibility should be excluded for some of the possible other reasons. Ten. These amendments also regulate in a slightly different way the charges for the initiation of the appeal procedure, change the rates and rates of compensation, the range of estimated values, and the corresponding amounts of compensation have been corrected and increased due to changes in the limit, i.e. the threshold above which the contracting authorities are obliged to apply the provisions of the Public Procurement Act. So, in other words, they're increasing, so they're expanding in the beginning three times. Also, the fee three times, provided that, of course, if the complaint is adopted, then actually, the complainant won't pay, he gets that money back, and he'll pay the one who's guilty. So, the one carrying out the public procurement - the client. The 11th, in respect of statutes of limitations within the meaning of the Public Procurement Act, are prescribed by the words applying the provisions of the Infringement Act instead of the interpretations so far. So now there's been an interpretation that it's three years out of date, so it's completely out of date after another three years. Now it's simply a matter of law enforcement. Here I have tried so at 11 points to compromise all those changes that are actually foreseen by these amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act. Now, since this area is very important and it's the only defense mechanism that can be affected. As I've already told corruption, money and public contractors, so public money. I think it is necessary to reconsider some of the concerns regarding the level of the acquisition of the exemption from the public procurement obligation. That's why it is the parent's body, the parent's board talked like he talked. That's why he asked actually here to do it in two readings. Finally, it should be mentioned that out of the total amount of about €39.3 billion achieved in public procurement in 2012 there were 15% or approximately 6.1 billion in purchases. It may be necessary to say that public contracting authorities have achieved 21092 public procurement procedures of around 24.1 billion kuna, and sectoral water, energy, postal services and other 5225 procedures of $9.1 billion. Now one question at the end. How many new purchasing limits and low budget values in particular in local and regional self-government units would there be at all more procedures carried out in public procurement procedures. Because if you increase the level three times, that's 6.1 times 3. So out of 39.3 billion how much 12% of the social gross product is public procurement, so somewhere around 20, so maybe more than a billion would be a bazaar purchase. I don't know what budget units of local and regional self-government would have to do more public procurement procedures at all. More or less would be all the procedures of exaggeration. Obviously they cannot be placed under common criteria and state and state-owned companies and state-owned institutions and units of local and regional self-government, and... To look into this law is a big problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is therefore expected, as I have said, that this leprosy purchase, so without the initiation of public procurement procedures, would rise to 2/3 of the value of the total public procurement. So I would ask the Proposer to respect some of these thoughts here with principled support of the law. It would be very nice if we had it in two readings, but here from this base SDP club supports in principle that public procurement procedures should be simplified, that they should be facilitated. But here's what we thought, and that's what we showed on the board that this is a little bit too much. But here's the principle of support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56800	Thank you. The replica was signed up by a colleague named Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56801	Thank you very much. I've been listening to you, I'm guessing there's a few other MPs listening to you. However, I'm not sure the promoter listened to you. If I'm not mistaken at 11 points, you've counted all the items in which this law intervenes. If I've listened well enough then on all 11 items you've found certain suggestions, suggestions, I won't say remarks. But the way we could fix the proposed solution, that is to say, what people on the ground might face when we apply this law. And it all must have been well-intentioned. Because it comes absolutely, as soon as it comes from your club, then eventually the position of the board where it was unanimous if I'm not wrong to suggest going to another reading. Your final thought was for us on behalf of the SDP club in principle we support this. Now, in principle, he's in the debate today, he'll be raising his hands on Friday. But you certainly won't, on Friday it won't be in principle, it'll be material Friday. Now, if you won't respect the objections made by the opposition, you won't respect the HDZ remarks, and here are two HDZ representatives, I apologize, you're so petty that I didn't spot you right away, but at least take this into consideration. Because these are really problems that concern especially local self-government units that your colleague told you but you didn't listen to it in the final word, this law makes you practically make a provision that local self-government units don't have to conduct public procurement procedures at all. That's what he was telling you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56802	Replication response, Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56803	Well, colleague Novak, it's no secret, whoever wants to read this proposal is actually the truth. The truth is that budgets are what they are, the fact is that so far public procurement has been done in unrelated, therefore, lewd jobs. In fact, whether or not it's someone who has to determine, I'm not the one. But the fact that here at all these points was important to compromise what was the point. So, the next day we can discuss the need at all almost pa the State Commission for Public Procurement in this way. But on the other hand, I agree and that's what matters to me. So the possibility needs to be simplified, so something needed to be increased. It can't be the same, but I also think if Slovenia has 20 grand, or 40 thousand euros, I think it's a product service, and over here 40 thousand works, then it's kind of like I know, here I think it's some kind of norm maybe. But who am I to appreciate it? I just have my own opinion, and it seems to me that this way of looking at it is problematic because if the bazaar procurement becomes a gro of public procurement, and that's going to be, two-thirds of it multiply. However you multiply the threshold times three. There it is, now it was 6.1. There, thank you very much. I'd like to adopt something, maybe adopt it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56804	We're continuing the club debate. I invite my dear colleague Goran Maric to speak to us on behalf of the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56805	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues. A little fellow Rilje took away my inspiration for this debate because I can't disagree with everything you've said, but I have something to add. This may be one of the crucial laws for the fate of the Croatian economic future. This is one of the most important laws of all that is passed in the Croatian Parliament, the Public Procurement Act, amendments to the Public Procurement Act. counterpart Rilje said the bill is a bit of a problem and some proposals need to be reconsidered. This law should be prevented as soon as possible, the bill. Don't go into another reading, pull it out. He's not going to be helped by another reading. Because when it comes to amending the laws of the existing one, I guess we should reanalyze the difficulties that make it difficult to amend the law, which makes us really have to discuss the proposal and vote it in law. What are these analyses, which are conclusions from which we cannot turn our heads, which we cannot close our eyes before, but we must face the truth and force us to change because it is an unsustainable state. If we accept that the state of public procurement is unsustainable this proposal makes the unsustainable state even more unsustainable because it makes the situation worse. I don't know, there's probably no way to appeal, which methodology to use to prevent a bill like this, a proposal like this, but to go into an emergency procedure just to ease the procurement process. And no, my colleague Rilje, that two-thirds of the public procurement will become bazaar, this bill turns public procurement into a full supply. Unfortunately, entirely. Bagatelize 39 billion kunas a year, bagatelize. We make fun of today's situation in Croatia. I don't know if the parent board has a negative view of this, if this kind of voice is heard, a reasonable vote in the House, that there's no rational reason to go into this motion and there's one hundred and one reason not to accept such a proposal, so why rape it? Why rape democracy? I must confess this is the bravest proposal that has come to the Croatian Parliament. There should be a dose and impudence, so this should be suggested to the Croatian Parliament. This is a mockery of the culture of entrepreneurship. When comparing Slovenia and Croatia, Austria and Croatia, you compare incomparably. We started, we're in a kindergarten building a culture of entrepreneurship. And we can't compare ourselves with the countries that they've been building for years and decades and are at a much higher level. You heard your prime minister today says in Austria no one's even giving you a ski bill but it's known he's not cheating on the state. In Croatia, I'm not sure if it's a fraud or not. What is the motive for changing this law? that I heard earlier perhaps to help facilitate the procurement process. What's going to make it easier? It'll make it easier to be out of the way, make it easier to be intransparency. Our mouths are full of transparency, and our hands are full of non-transparency results. This really is an unsustainable condition. I don't know what motivates these people, except that there's a starting segment anyway, and where immorality is quite present, it's opening up space to live there, it's opening up space to catch up and never root out of there with a bill like this again. I don't know, there's no proposal against which I'd be as hot as this bill. I can't help but call upon reason to stand up against this. What analysis led to this proposal? Let me see those analysis. What conclusions? What are we going to get if we increase from 70,000 kuna to 200 thousand kuna? What does that get you? The room for manipulation, the space for guessing, the space for even if we're already discussing in the dark, so let's not let public procurement take place in the dark. This law just makes public procurement happen in the dark. And those who like to work in the dark, I don't really like them. Legally, these expand the framework for abuse. Why? And you're a good colleague of Rilje's asked a question, why do you include yourself in the public procurement of those involved in the pre-fashion settlement? Those to whom the State has forgiven the debts may participate, and those who have not paid their debts to the State because of the pre-demand settlement and who has not paid the legal person or craftsman in the pre-departure settlement cannot participate. So where will the better example of discrimination be? So because of the person in the pre-departure settlement, he is forced by the council of wise men to write off his debts, and then he cannot participate in the procurement, and he whom they all conspired to forgive for everything he owes him can change with this law and he can participate in the public procurement. I don't know what to say but toast. Why they are singled out in public procurement works is exempt objects intended for culture. Well, we could've taken everything apart, so best if we put it all in a dung supply, separate the good from the culture, and let's set it all apart, there's no public procurement. Best to cancel public procurement. Why is there even this legal framework when it only encourages even more securely itself that there would be less malfeasance in the economy and entrepreneurship if there were no Public Procurement Act than if it were brought to life like this. There'll be more malfeasance because it'll motivate you to do it. When compensation for the appeal procedure is increased and another intellectual effort has been made to disable and what few would participate in public procurement and eliminate them because of the paid fee not to complain. To increase the fee so much he doesn't feel worth complaining about. If someone wants to increase their competition well-intentioned, the only solution is that one who wishes to complain that a guarantee that will not be protested should his appeal be adopted and to whom he will be protested if his appeal is not adopted. But not to engage his 100 thousand kuna assets and participate in 3.4 public procurement must hire, raise perhaps a loan to participate in the appeal process, pay 300, 400 thousand kuna, wait for the process for several months and then pay interest but return it without interest. I can't understand the background of this not the bill, but the actions of one. The HDZ certainly will not support this kind of action, but it will resist the air, and it is not this, this is the first time we have spoken against this law now, but it will certainly not be the last time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56806	We've got plenty of replicas. First respected colleague Nada Turina Đuric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56807	Dear fellow Maric, you said no analysis was made, but you didn't do any analysis when you started talking about the bill's proposal because if you did any analysis and looked at what actually happened to public procurement in the whole crowd of public procurement, you'd see that it's not as disastrous as you're showing it. Which is why, because you said public procurement should be abolished at all, because it will no longer be under this law. That's absolutely not true. So the largest number of published contracts in public procurement were smaller contracts, so the small estimated value, but their total value was only 8% compared to the total purchase that was made. And it will also be in the future, because more than 50% of the total public procurement is for you hac, HC, Croatian water, large state-owned companies and the Central Public Procurement Office and it will always remain in the public procurement system and according to this bill. And why it's good to pick this up, I'll talk about it in the debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56808	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56809	Mrs. Djuric, 38 years ago, I graduated from the graduates, so I'm pretty good at math, and there's a little bit of it left from my graduation days. 8% of 39, 40 billion is 3 billion and 200 and you say it's a negligible amount. For 3 billion and something you say is negligible. Perhaps for those who want to do this way as this bill provides, for them is negligible, there is no limit for them. Billions, so they look from the plane and look at Croatia, their small Croatia, let alone one billion. And I didn't say it was all black, but it's going to be black with a bill like this. And how many times have I heard from you that public procurement abuse is present at all levels and segments of society. These should, too, if we are going to change something to eventually prevent such unholy acts. How is it that this bill weakens completely, this is just like passing a traffic law that allows it to be driven with 2.5 prominences and you expect there to be no carambola. Now that is to expect transparency in public procurement with such complete laxity. I'm surprised you're even talking to me, but listening to you and your colleague Rilyu then you should have replicated your colleagues to Rilja, not to me, because he was on the same track as me.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56810	Second replica, colleague Branko Box.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56811	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Maric, you said that public procurement is turning into an exaggeration. The best evidence for this is to analyse the budget of municipalities in the Republic of Croatia to see what they are by the amount and how many municipalities in the Republic of Croatia will have public procurement of more than 500 thousand kuna. So it's practically a negligible number and it gives you the right to your claim. But I think this visionary law will make the most of the satisfaction of Minister Zmajlovic because it will be a very large saving of paper since there will be no public procurement.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56812	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56813	Well, a colleague of the Box, of course, will become a baffled supply, and as many of those who will not be excluded from the public procurement process will be vaccinated, the possibility of splitting and transferring from year to year is now even more open. Which is now that someone has 500 grand, 200 thousand kuna, to transfer half of it to next year. This bill will so activate intellectual efforts as to avoid public procurement procedures that most participants will only think about it instead of thinking about respecting the procedure, that they cannot possibly avoid it and that they will pay the penalty if they abuse it and even end up where many are not dear. Because the procurement process should not be wronged in Croatia, and this encourages sin, encourages abuse, encourages non-transparency, and in fact this will work more stimulatively on entrepreneurial activity. Well, there are still honest, moral people in Croatia, so in this beast they will give up their jobs, they will be demoted for going to the market when they know who they're going to go out to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56814	Replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56815	Dear counterpart Maric, you should wonder who is the author of this proposal to amend the law on public procurement. Well, probably by what you're saying, what the law says, we can guess, maybe it was a remetic section, an economic remetic section headed by Ivo, Nadana, and it's probably Ratko that's gonna help them in propaganda to stick to it in society after all. And that retinal section will probably ask for a percentage of the total traffic that is made. You asked what was good about this law. It's easier to count, pardon the other way around, which is all bad. It's easier to count what's good in this law. This law, we used to say that public procurement was both during HDZ authorities and during the SDP government and during the power of the late Prime Minister Ivica Racan that public procurement was early cancer, that public procurement was spreading corruption, that public procurement was actually needed for those who could use it and that what you were saying was that those participants in public procurement meant those who could be notified of the wider circle. But what is proposed today, it is proposed that corruption can continue to develop uninterruptedly and that Mr Mladen Bajic is likely to prove himself in practice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56816	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56817	My colleague Vuksic has nothing good in this bill. I read it from beginning to end. Nothing can be good when they want to, because it only changes something that wants to get worse. This is where the intention is bad. There are always working groups to draft laws or amendments to the bill, proposals for amending laws. This can't be who was doing it, I'd like to see the names of the task force. It would never have occurred to parliamentarians if they had made such a bill in the working group. They'd never do that, and they'd know it by debate. But this isn't where the task force was. Here is an interest group that will eliminate most of the players from the market, and the number of players in the economy is the most important factor for competition. We're killing potential competition with this one that doesn't have one anyway. Now we're killing her. And most importantly, the most important thing to point out is the pre-fashion settlement that I said in itself here and I will repeat the production of the economic apartheid in Croatia, and then this economic apartheid when it is still given priority over all others then brings us back to the feudal system. There's no market economy here. There's no progress, there's no prosperity. Croatia will also become a permanent place of accident, as I have already said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56818	New replica of colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56819	Thank you, Vice President. Well, here's a colleague, Maric, you warned right at the beginning and you asked the question which are the difficulties that drive us to change this law and whether we were doing an analysis of the current state at all. Unfortunately, we haven't been working on the analysis for quite a while or we're not working on any new law proposal at all but a neat opposition when we propose a new law we warn that the new law cannot be adopted unless an analysis has been made. These are double rules that always work and that will always seem to work. The problem of this law I see in that part of what we put in the same basket and here as you have warned, and so does fellow Rilje is that units of local self-government almost won't be many or very, very few that won't need to carry out public procurement procedures at all to get or do anything. So there's now a question that will be the quality of the work done, how these contracts will be negotiated, how we get to that claim you're making, and what's the point that there's going to be less and less competitiveness because there's always going to be the same players in the game. And this is dangerous, and it is particularly dangerous to do comparisons like the proposer did at the beginning of this law when we compare ourselves with Austria and neighbouring countries and when we try to compare entrepreneurship in Croatia with the entrepreneurship of those countries which I think will take us a very long time to even compare ourselves with entrepreneurship, craftsmanship and public procurement and what public procurement and transparency should look like.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56820	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56821	Thank you very much. Comrade Tyrelli, part of the analysis has been carried out, and I need to correct the analysis of the results of this law alone. It is likely that the expected result has been achieved that local self-government units do not go to public procurement. We must count on their self-awareness. So why won't we count? Well, by nature, man is created as fair, so let's not make laws, count on their morals, on honesty, on self-awareness, and they themselves will do what is imposed as a social norm. Comparing Western countries with the birth problems of entrepreneurs in Croatia is cynical. For example, in Germany it is absurd to ask in the economy and do you pay in time, whether you owe someone. That question doesn't exist. And in Croatia it is the only issue in the economy. The empires are being built on non-payment. Non-payment has become a lifestyle, a certain level of culture of behavior is not to be paid. Well, you're not a businessman if you're paying in time, then you're a little bit unadjusted to our operating conditions. And now with this, even those who do this will be privileged, they will be, they can be in a public tender because we have to make it possible for them to do this. And who's the author? I'd like to see him. I thought I would never, and I probably won't get a chance, because this law will never be able to come in again to raise the tone by the smallest level of decibel.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56822	Thank you very much. Next replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Maric, you've made it very clear that this bill opens the door to bargaining wide. From favoring corruption, from corruption, from crime. You get the orders for me, I'll get it for you, and it's all defined by this law. Both in local, municipal self-government, regional, urban but so we see those in which the state has already forgiven and they will be able to act as well. And the third segment here is visible which will be able to solve up to 3.5 million without public competition and these are our embassies. And they've covered a lot of things from the state all the time. It's a little sanctioned, you'd say, and this way, even more without control, without order, will work only in his own interest and in the interest of his friends. This is the law that opened the door wide to corruption and crime.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56824	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56825	Thank you very much. My colleague Djakic, you have corrected a small fellow box with this. A short while ago, a colleague of the Box said he would not have to, that there would be savings of material, paper. It won't, because orders will have to be printed from now on in tones, the chopping will be orders and orders. Well, that's what we're great at. Well that's to perfection, that shows practice that our lifestyle has become. And now we're still making that happen. And you say these things that are in the pre-departure settlement, which the state has forgiven their debts, not only did the state forgive their debts, but thousands of entrepreneurs had to forcibly forgive their debts, write off their debts, forcefully. Not by their decision, by the decision of two, three large ones who are in the commission who have more than 51% of the vote and forced them to sign everything. And he won't be able to participate in public procurement. We'll bring public procurement down to as many players as there are on the fingertips. Maybe it's someone's goal, but when I said I didn't finish, maybe I thought I'd never raise my voice, this law deserves a scream, not a tone, but a cry and a cry! This is the twilight if we allow this proposal to be accepted in the Croatian Parliament. And this scream of mine is more of a cry. I can't reconcile that something like this can come to someone's mind and suggest it at the Croatian Parliament. Who's the author to see him? Let me see what that brain is all about that suggested. Who's that? I wish you hadn't come but that the author of this came to face what we're saying today. Because I'm sorry you have to listen to everything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56826	Thank you. A new replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56827	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. You told your colleague Maric because of a pre-fashion settlement, one is forgiven for the debt, and others are unable to pay the debt to the state. Well, you see, a few big players agree, agree the rules of the game on pre-demand settlement and then tens and hundreds of small ones say we'll pay you in five years without interest 20% of that amount and you see the small you can't pay 100 or 150 thousand kuna commitments to the state and they're based on this law excluded from opportunity. However, counterpart Maric is not finished, these youngsters are now taking part in these purchases of up to 70 thousand because their size of work is not even bigger. With this lift to 205,000, they're shutting them down again. So those who raise some funds to pay the state what they haven't been paid are now excluded with this law. But since this Kukuriku coalition has shared interesting spheres, have you noticed anything from fellow Maric? The 2 biggest shifts are where the ministers from the same party are. These are embassies from 900 to 3.5 million kuna and this is a change of public procurement criteria for cultural objects. Very interestingly, all three ministers are from one party that swears to honesty. And my colleague Maric, can you imagine what kind of salve of accusations we have from HDZ would have heard that we accidentally dared to suggest something like this in the Assembly? ... Mr. Radosh, you're welcome, but you have the defendants. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Although HDZ players still don't play golf on special playgrounds like you do, but you're on the best track with this law to play extra golf.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56828	Now perhaps I should let my colleague Radosha respond to this replica, but I still have to leave it to my colleague Maric. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56829	Thank you very much. Comrade Shuker, I can't imagine. You asked me if I could imagine how the opposite side would react if we suggested? I can't imagine because I'd be the first against such a proposal and I'd leave the assembly if the party insisted on it and this way I couldn't support it at all, not at all. When you're talking about a prenuptial settlement, there's only one example. Banks placed 5 billion kunas in three companies that did not charge. The creditors of these debtors are 2,000... [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56830	Do not throw away your colleagues, let your colleague deliver his reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56831	May I?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56832	Here you go. ... Please stop throwing in the benches and let your colleague Maric take his reply to the replica. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56833	I'll just finish for a little while. 5 billion kunas were loaned to three companies, the three companies were creditors of 2850 suppliers, 2850 remained unpaid for their claims due to the pre-profit deal and three large companies. These 2850 cannot now participate in public procurement, and they would have just participated until the amount of this baffled because the large ones are not very interested, the big ones are very interested, so they have also influenced the increase now. I don't like that expression of capital, but America, which is the most powerful country in the world, would be startled if you knew the structure of the economy and there are the most powerful multinational companies but the main part of the total GDP and the main part of the economy are small companies. In Croatia, small and little successes of life should now be destroyed, trampled and thrown out of the market, thrown out of the competition and left only large and large capital to some government and no large capital came into the country, but large capital occupied the state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56834	The last line will be presented by a colleague, Tomislav Zhagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56835	Thank you, Vice President. I will try to express my replica with two aspects, although I must admit it is extremely difficult given the level of negativity or the level with which you spoke negatively about this bill. But I'm going to try, I'm not an economist, so let me just, logically, try to consider these things, of course, from the assumption that you here say the bases for dishonesty, or how you later said in one line that this law is actually that we are masters in playing the procedure, fair procedures in any legal solution. I may say that I may be a little bit naive to some things but I would not yet go with such a dose or with such a measure of faith that in Croatia all entrepreneurs are actually just waiting for an opportunity to start dishonesty with fraud, as well as those who conduct public procurement. Of course, from the aspect of what you're saying that those involved in public procurement can get to work in one way or another unfairly, I believe that's possible. But if we take on those who conduct public procurement, and you said here that also raising the level of the fee for appeal, I know from my experience and there are many cases where due to an unfounded complaint are lost funds that are in one way or another secured either through funds or through ministries. So I also can't say now that this law will increase the level of corruption because the level of corruption and dishonesty do not depend on height, theft is theft, corruption is corruption, regardless of whether stealing is 70,000 or 200 thousand kuna. It's always the same, and whether it's going to be a motive and whether all entrepreneurs are now willing to participate in that way I doubt it, I say you might say I'm naive but here I think if this law will facilitate public procurement to those who conduct it, I think it makes sense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56836	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56837	I would never have thought you were naive, nor would I want to approach you, however, I appreciate your replica and your attitude and everyone's attitude I appreciate and respect. Most in Croatia entrepreneurs are honest, it should not be doubted, but all the facts suggest that they are little more honest than the large ones. The big ones owe, the big ones don't pay, the big ones get forgiven, the big ones block, the big ones don't give guarantees, the big ones blackmail. And this is about the number of actors. I'm saying it's going to negatively reflect on the largest number of actors and it's going to be eliminated just as small. And if you were right that the border doesn't affect transparency then we could end it, then it wouldn't be necessary. But it's still necessary. If we were always counting on a human conscience, then we wouldn't need any laws. And the truth to an honest man doesn't need a law, a wise man doesn't need a law, a smart man doesn't need a law. So which of the wise men will be drunk and drive shall not be a single one. But it should be because of the others. What honest man won't charge someone? He won't do any of them. But those who live that lifestyle need it. And we can't trust each other because it encourages exactly those who point out everything to live like that that's the way they live their lives. And the pretense settlement testifies to that. Only one company has 996 creditors who have lost everything, and only three believers have decided on fate in the pre-fashion settlement and on them. And now those 996 will not participate, and those who choose will.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56838	Thank you very much. Time's up. We're continuing the club debate, so I'd like to invite my esteemed colleague, Kresimir Bubal, to present the position of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56839	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister. Here's what I wanted to say on behalf of the HDSSB Club about the draft law amending and supplementing the Public Procurement Act with the final draft law. In fact, from previous discussions, but also from my modest experience in ten years in local and regional administration units, I think I can talk about this law that I think is very important for the operations of local administration units, but here we are doing a lot of European projects and European funds, so I think it is also important for European funds. Looking at this law and looking at the increase in the amount of minimum i.e. I must admit that we at the HDSSB club were shocked to see the proposal because it was also said earlier that the people who conduct the public procurement process would be relieved of their work but I am responsiblely saying that we will be able to make analyses after perhaps passing this law even though I hope you will withdraw it, that by the units of the local administration with these leniency purchases that will increase prices. I can tell you this on the basis of my experience because I remember well when I came to Osijek, for example, four years ago, I tried to combine public procurement and I was about to avoid adventurous public procurement and I can admit that on average 30 percent of the prices were cheaper than in the past periods. I remember one big job that we had united and spent so I begged people to come and sign the contract and they told me we went with the dumping, they wouldn't want the media to go out the prices at which we gave you the services that here are the way they are. Thus, this law will certainly enable those who do work to reduce their size of work. A little while ago, counterpart Maric said there would be more orders, no, there would be fewer orders because they would now be uniting these 70s, they would not break them so much, but by looking at the unit of local, regional administrations, and I think the state should not go with this reduction in the amount. But also when we talk about certain articles in the law that define the rules of conduct and the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on Public Procurement with the final draft of the law, when you look at Article 105 and when it comes to the amount if it breaks 10% of the amount of works, I believe that whoever breaks more than 5% of what has been provided for by law so far, if he breaks through, then he did not plan the investment well. Then the professional services that were preparing the work did not do it well and there opened the space for some unholy shops. Therefore, it is the HDSSB's view to remain at 5% compared to the contracted value of the works. Article 105 of the public procurement agreement is therefore considered to be a new contract during its duration. This is also not necessary because if you go up to 5% of the amount planned, not to increase to 10% without VAT, therefore this amount should not change and open up space for some new tunnels, for some new big investments and problems that have arisen, and the media have been quite exploited in the past months as well as in the past weeks. Likewise, when we talk about Article 146, the deadlines for making an appeal... the procurement procedure and in paragraph 1 of the publication of the call for competition in relation to the content of the call for competition documentation and additional documentation if there is one. They would further suggest that if the economic operator requested an explanation of the amendment relating to the documentation, because when we look at this Article 146 of the applicable law, the economic operator almost always decides to make an appeal without prior communication with the contracting authority which would, in most cases, agree to certain amendments to the dossier. This supplement would make it impossible for economic operators to step down the procedure to enable the contracting authority to amend and supplement. Therefore, there is a need to simplify the system. But looking at the number of complaints that were in the last year, and they were quite a number, but only 22... 1728, 22% adopted. There are also professional complainants who often delay individual investments, certain works, which are also not good for the investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia. So, looking at the rationality and economic question that you're setting for this amount of up to 70,000 or 200 thousand. We believe that this amount should not be changed because the space is being opened I would say breaking the competitions that took place in the units of the local administration, but it is little known that there are few units, I have heard that people were responding because they did, and I believe that they have done great damage to the units of the local administration. Likewise, when we talk about culture or exceptions to public procurement, we feel that there should be no exceptions. Because when we look at architects, engineers, lawyers, I remember well that I did a public competition for example for lawyers. It was so many complaints, even the chamber was obvious that we couldn't conduct public procurement for legal services. So why can't we? If someone is going to offer a certain discount on the tariff, I think it would be good because the units of the local administration don't care when the invoices arrive on the tariff and therefore we should change the law because I don't think lawyers are any caste that can rule the Republic of Croatia, but also the units of the local administration when we look at architects, when we look at engineers. The more we conduct public tenders, we will have more favourable prices in units of local, regional administration, but also in the country and we will certainly be more favourable to whether it is goods, services or the performance of a particular job. A moment ago, it was also about prenuptial settlements. It is through pre-fashion settlements that many healthy businessmen lose their share and property and part of their claims. That's not good. Companies in a pre-fashion settlement should not be allowed to report to competitions. But what appears to us as a problem, some have ended up in advance, some in bankruptcy. E there should perhaps be an opportunity to find a company that will take over under the same parameters a job that is agreed on, not to waste time because there may be problems with European funds where we have some deadline to do the job, and it happens that the company goes bankrupt and can't do the job. And you, while you're running a new competition, will lose your funding. This is what threatens us with the European Union funds, as we have professional complainants who will delay certain jobs being realised and certain jobs being done. The deadlines for complaints should also be shortened or given some priority if European projects are involved, so that we do not lose some funds. Also, looking at your proposal if more than half of the members of the Supervisory Board in companies need to conduct public procurement. I believe that although the unit of local administration is owned by over 50%, companies also need to carry out public procurement and adhere to the rules as the local administration units do. Surely in that sense it would also be saved. Also when we talk about the individual investments that started, and the companies went bankrupt, we have corridor 5C and bridge on corridor 5C. Perhaps Minister Hajdash Doncic is in charge of not doing it now, but certain companies have ended up in bankruptcy or in pre-determined condition, not doing business. This kind of thing should be given the opportunity for others to take the job, continue their work at the same agreed prices that we don't waste time. I think the criteria for selecting offers should always be economic. All the parameters in the tenders are known, always the economic criterion is the most significant because, with the bank guarantee, with all those parameters set in the competition, the economic criterion must always be the basic criterion for selecting the most favourable bidder in the business itself. Therefore, the HDSSB is against such an increase in the limit, i.e. amount of 200000 for goods and services, 50,000 for work. Because when we compete with Slovenia and Italy, it means their 20,000 euros, our 26,000 euros, their 40 our 65,000 euros or 500000 kuna. I think it is too early to see our way of doing business in Croatia, looking at the situation on the market. But I also think that through my experience where I realized that we often made savings exactly if we were uniting public procurement and for the system of businesses and other institutions whether it was toilet paper or some investment. Therefore, this will only increase prices. We propose to the Resorm Ministry and the Government to withdraw this law, because this law creates an area that is not good at local administration units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56840	We're moving on to replicas. First, my colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56841	Dear colleague Bubalo, here I will begin at the end of your presentation when you mentioned the toilet paper. I don't know who they are, the old man certainly remembers the situation on Croatian TV when one of the principals bought so much toilet paper that the whole state wrote about it. It was also used in public procurement. At the time, she wondered why she was doing it. You and many other speakers today wondered whether public procurement should be suspected, public procurement work and before a colleague from the SDP wondered whether anyone involved should be doubtful. Practice teaches us to need it. We are a highly corrupt country and a highly corrupt society. However, it should be said that they are certainly not corrupt and corrupt citizens living off their salaries, citizens who are not close to the source of money, but are corrupting so-called. This is what you were saying, what the predecessors were saying. The limit is increasing, so new corruption is increasing in order to facilitate public procurement. What does it mean to facilitate public procurement? Someone mentioned earlier that money is being lost by low limits because we have too few employees in the service, local self - administration, or the state administration. Actually, what we're talking about here. No one explained to us why this need to increase that limit and what it will actually gain, which we will save, what the state will get on it, is what the taxpayers will get. I think it's a new possibility of corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56842	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56843	Thank you very much. Comrade Vuksic, according to my assessment, the taxpayers will get higher prices than they have now. Whether it's going to be corruption or not, but it's going to be a shame to the local administration units because they're going to get the goods at a higher price and it's going to be toilet paper or something. Because you can check at the level of units of local administration, if something is done to a united public procurement where you go with a larger amount or you provide the possibility of all getting certain goods or services or services, you will certainly get a more favourable price. The higher price is in small purchases and you can check it based on any unit of local administration or state. Therefore, restrictions should not be changed but, in fact, they should remain the same as they are right now, because a healthy game is needed. And you, if you raise the limit from 70 to more, will not provide an opportunity for all of Croatia to report to something called the competition and any toilet paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56844	The second line is a colleague of Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56845	Mr. Vice President, dear colleague Bubalo, you mentioned professional complainants here and I think you shot that in the srid. Because we have a big problem with these professional complainers who, especially in the telecommunications system, are making problems for us so that we can't win for a year, choose a contractor for telecommunications services. But here you didn't mention here that this should be settled in the law, that this should also see how the office, the above commission, will react and how we will protect ourselves, that is, how people who conduct procurement in local and regional self-government units will be protected, because it's certainly one of the big problems in public procurement. And secondly, as far as lawyers are concerned, I don't think we can exactly put lawyers through public procurement because it's a matter of quality of attorney. We can hardly put in the conditions of competition some measure of excellence, so we'll say that he's got some disputes or I don't know it's hard to assess the measures of excellence by which some lawyer would be better than the other one and what they might put in the conditions of the competition. So, I don't think we should have a fight about the need for local and regional self-government units to choose a lawyer they think is good and can get them a certain dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56846	The replica matches Kresimir Bubalo. Just call me back a second time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56847	I'll be faster. I listened very carefully to what Mr. Sanader was going to say because he is a man who has a lot of experience in the regional administration and surely he felt as I felt that at certain times you have professional complainants, even if he is an election year then you have been strengthened to obstruct you from doing some work or not finishing some investment before the elections themselves. This is so, but it is necessary to find the possibility that professional complainants should also be punished if they often repeat certain things and no irregularities have been identified. But when we talk about legal services, you can say that there are important references in the competition that one should apply, and if two law firms report similar references and that someone offers that 50% will go cheaper than the tariff, then it is certainly logical that it will be the economic price that the parameter will decide. And not to say that if there are simpler disputes where you go to collect claims and where you expect and it is certain that you will get slow to collect them from what they have charged. But I also didn't tell my colleague Vuksic before, but there are a lot of trained people in local administrations as well as at the state level. I believe that teams have also been educated according to all European rules, given licenses. Therefore, local and regional administration units have enough licensed and trained people to implement a public procurement system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56848	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club, a respected counterpart, Nada Turina-Đuric, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56849	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. So here's the introduction, I have to say something, that I'm astounded at how many MPs there are, some representatives and some representatives of the representatives' clubs themselves or their own colleagues in local and regional self-government primarily consider them thieves commenting on this law and doubting their fundamental honesty challenges this law as a possible litter of future corruption. I just don't know who for, so I guess for those, our local and regional self-government leaders, the directors of public companies. I don't think from that vicious circle we've entered I'm not going to say whose credit is the most, but I think we know that we have to start dating. And I'm also surprised that some colleagues who have been here for many years local and regional self-government leaders are talking about this being a disaster, that this will create the same litter of corruption because they themselves in their own discussion, here's colleague Bubalo just said, that he as mayor and as mayor has spent a whole of measures within his local and regional self-government not only through a system of obvious public procurement but also through other systems which are of course available to all local and regional self-government leaders to carry out in the purchase of works, services, jobs and limited collection of offers for certain jobs, that they must generally ask for more offers and for the smallest and smallest jobs that are done for local self-government units or regional self-government only the question is whether they want to do so and whether they do it transparently. In this country, the biggest thieves took place under the auspices of public procurement. So, to accuse this law, or to lift the limit of the bagatile supply, I guess part of the coup, I have no idea how it is displayed or experienced here today, I think it's groundless. I think, especially given some discussions, I have to remind my colleagues, we talked here on several occasions about a public procurement system, that is, the State Commission for the Monitoring of Public Procurement, and here was one discussion among other things from fellow Shucker who warned about one problem, which is precisely this legal solution on the basis of solving part of these problems, which is that public procurement and 100 thousand kuna fell several times over one financial year that these funds failed to be spent. Unfortunately, under the pressure of all these complaints, the commission failed to provide adequate answers in due time, and this is one of the reasons why it took forever and that, ultimately, these works and those services were not implemented in that year, so the funds were being transferred to the next year, which is why most of our people who are in representative authorities in local self-government units are usually characterised as being incompetent to the head to carry out the budget. Since I've been one of the leaders of regional self-government for many years, I also know we've had problems. So, in the first part of the year, tenders for public procurement are first being prepared in relation to... costs, and then in the second part of the year it usually starts. There are huge risks that you, within the calendar year, will succeed in this system as we do public procurement, and it is often about the purchases of what is proposed from 200 to 500 thousand kunas that are necessary to fix something de facto no'. Or I don't know if anything would have been put into operation. So these are massages and harassments experienced by all local and regional self-government leaders, as well as by the directors of some smaller public utility or some other companies. And that's why I'm surprised by this violent one attack. I wouldn't go into whether it could have been maybe 300 grand or 350 grand because I just don't have the information that could tell me what the figure would have been real. However, 70,000 kuna is definitely something that local self-government units do not know about sanitary material, paper, consumer material and such things, everything else exceeds that amount. And a whole series of such works are de facto dependent on the basic functioning of kindergartens, some kindergartens, some schools, and now entering the public procurement system. So I wouldn't get mad about it all, and I think we in HNS absolutely support giving that opportunity. Of course we tighten our controls, I agree with that, too, to tighten our controls. So far, we have audits that come to us once a year or once every two years in such bodies and these institutions, they control. I am not sure that one auditor would have been missed by an auditor to determine that something was obtained for $400,000, and that it was exclusively written by the order and that there are not at least two other offers for such a job and that this opinion would have been considered unconditional. I don't think that can happen. And when something is already given as a conditional opinion, then it is known where that opinion is going and who, based on that opinion, must take certain steps to determine whether there is or no reason to suspect that an illegal or corrupt action has been done. Likewise, what I have been saying throughout this structure of total public procurement, in most of this public procurement has been carried out by our large public companies, and with all due respect to everyone who has been discussed so far, we must say and it is known that, in fact, in these large companies, the biggest criminal moves have been made under the auspices of public procurement. And that most of them have never been able to prove themselves in the investigations of entry and SCOK and all that they are in reality and are crime. So Mr. Maric, who is now yelling at us, I don't know if he could go under the balcony of a former minister of traffic who managed these companies or who was responsible for these companies. So we are yelling at the fact that with 200 or 500 thousand kuna someone in local and regional self-government will commit the robbery of the century in Croatia. So I think the robbery of the centuries took place in public procurement in public companies by law, and probably most of those people will never do that, will not be held accountable for it. And in this way we're going to make it possible to operate anyway, we're going to allow those people who are facing these problems that I say Mr. Shucker spoke in some discussions, I'm not going to read them now, which they are facing, and then it's going to happen that they link their assets in investment with funds from a higher level of budget whether the county budget, whether the state's and then the funds are permanently lost if such transactions don't be negotiated. So a whole series of problems are real on the ground. And I would really appeal to a colleague on behalf of the HNS club to be reasonable and not to do this whole story tell the possibility that Mr. Marić has predicted for us here that there will happen not to know the robbery of the century but to allow people to do their job, and if that job does not work properly there are, of course, those institutions that need to be dealt with. It's an audit, it's the police, it's the State's Attorney's office, and I don't know who else should be acting when such cases happen. But in advance of accusing all local and regional self-government leaders from this booth of accusing them of being thieves, I don't think it's even a real message to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and I'm not going to talk about these people who were elected to these responsible duties at all. So I would like to ask you to put down the tensions on this, the HNS will support this bill's proposal and we hope that others in this regard will discuss this discussion further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56850	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. First respected representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56851	You have rightly been surprised by your fellow Turin for manipulation, hypocrisy and inconsistency during the debate on this law. There is talk about the needs of faster investment, faster decision-making, lack of investment, and then every proposal that goes after it, which is Croatia's dry need to look from this or from that point of view here from the point of view of a potential thief, and then the whole party is accused indirectly of such a thing, and in fact it is about underestimating voters who will not recognize who created the climate in Croatia that everything is thieving and that every intention is that it is a thief's intention. It is known who created such a climate in Croatia and who did what. Public procurement is said to be difficult to implement, but it is not for this law. It's about how public procurement was broken before, but it's not for this law. Like what happened before wasn't a crime, and if you want to commit crime, then you can do it in a hundred ways. Repeat the same job, for example. two or three times paint tunnels, according to public procurement, make payments in cash for jobs that have not been done or simply do a fictitious job and a hundred other manipulations. If there is no legal system and no rule of law, then every regulation will allow a thief. If there's a rule of law, then there'll be no thieving or less.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56852	The replica matches counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56853	Thank you. My colleague Radosh, that's exactly what I wanted to say in the debate. And what I'd like to add is, I think my colleague Maric said it and you've actually emphasized it in your replica, which could be the benefits of such a law and raising these limits. The fact is that we have a whole series of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who can't actually access public procurement in this public procurement system right now. In this situation where local leaders, where individual institutions will call for tenders for certain jobs, i.e. for offers for certain jobs, some smaller entrepreneurs with 200 thousand kunas of a job will be paid for 3-4 workers or 10 workers in a month will be able to get such a job. So far, that wasn't the case. They just couldn't pick up jobs like that. Public procurement had such proposition where some of course could get through and get a job with documents that they had attached, and we know that there were all kinds of jobs there, so they took down those purchases until they got just the ones they were supposed to get, and those medium and smaller were unfortunately quite old, outside of some jobs that could be some size of, say, 200 thousand kuna but could only be below 70 thousand kuna. So I think it's going to have that part of the effect, and it's going to...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56854	Bring the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56855	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56856	The next line is Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56857	Thank you very much. Namely, you're defending your colleagues indefensibly. Smaller competition means higher prices because the limited collection of offers is lower competition, and the higher quantity means lower prices. Caricate for the robbery of centuries from 200 to 500 thousand kuna for public procurement, certainly it is not a robbery of the century, but you will see in the units of local administration if you do a serious analysis that prices will be higher, and that is precisely because there will be limited collection offers and not everyone on the market will know exactly what is going on. So there's going to be less competition, and there's going to be higher prices. Benefita here units of local administration and regional administration won't feel it, so there won't be any.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56858	Next replica, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56859	Thank you very much. Fellow Đuric, you said that in their discussions some things have been said, but the system of public procurement as society develops, and that system should be improved and everything that has been in previous periods of brakes for certain processes, and brakes should be removed. Now the question is, if you have at least 150 municipalities in Croatia that have a budget below 5 million kuna, you can't identify them with public procurement of cities or municipalities that have budgets of more than 30, 40 to the City of Zagreb that has several billion. So it's just two different things, it's simply incomparable. To raise the threshold three times without any explanation and when you have the situation in the economy you have, that a bunch of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who will most appear to be such purchases, especially in local self-government units barely live or the question is whether they will survive these pre-profit deals simply isn't something that says that someone calls the unit leader local self-government thieves. It's just not true, nobody said that alive. The other thing, you know well, and you're alone right now, the head of a local self-government unit, this mayor and the mayor have the opportunity to decide up to a million kunas practically without a city council and without anything. Well, it's because of their conscience, because someone's trying to give them a far better time of public procurement, not that someone's messing with you tomorrow that you bought office material with a hundred thousand kuna direct contract with someone. Well, after all, if I'm not mistaken, one of the heads of the national park has been removed because of some public procurement of 50 thousand kunas that went through direct contracts. So if someone wants to make a crime, they'll find a model to make it, but I think we'd all be interested in building a system that will put as many obstacles to such players as possible to get to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56860	The replica matches counterpart Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56861	Well, here's my colleague Shuker, I agree with what he said, I sign with that this public procurement as so far means that it's already worked for works and services over 70,000 kunas so concise that it's essentially, what Mr. Bubalo said and what you're saying about competition as such is not the most important thing. It happened to be one of the bidders. So the fact that you have a public procurement and what Mr. Bubalo said is now going to come forward, I don't know how many people. So here lately, however, is less and less actually entrepreneurs who are even able to report to these public procurement simply because they are in certain problems. Which means if they're in some trouble in these smaller purchases that they can't absolutely get to work. We are now in a situation that is particularly difficult to crisis, as it is. However, with this situation offered by this law, I think we provide a slightly stronger swing precisely in that part of these small, medium-sized entrepreneurs, meaning not those who have usually destroyed public procurement for the construction of roads, ports and I don't know about large acquisitions but those medium-sized ones who really live from the month to the month of their work and from their work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56862	And the last replica of Branka Martinchev Juričev. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56863	Thank you very much. Jurician-Martinchev. A colleague of Turina Đuric, you said there were leaders who also found three offers for the purchase of up to 70,000 kuna. I believe that you, like us in Vodice, and something that's for 20,000 kuna, were ordered to take the same three bids. And probably such leaders will continue especially for these of hundreds of thousands of kuna jobs to take on more offers, but we are not talking about such bidders and such leaders who do so. You were saying that the biggest crimes were being done in public procurement and far above 70,000 kuna. That is why I ask you why we do not pass a law that will prevent such leaders from signing illegal contracts because this law will make it even better for them and it will be even harder for our judicial services to conclude and decide that it is illegal actions when the law allows such freedom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56864	The reply to the replica of counterpart Branko Juričev-Martinchev gives Nada Turina-Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56865	My colleague Martinchev, in my debate, said that, so here we're only talking about raising limits, that it should probably not be through this law, through some other law, how it will be supervised or what it is necessary to do in collecting offers below that value. Most leaders protect themselves in a way, I'm convinced that's why I wasn't really thrilled with some discussions here, because it simply called us all thieves and people who are going to be pushed now, just waiting for this law to push their fingers into the jam. I don't agree with that. I agree that certain or sub-legislative acts or a certain law that would regulate this part that we are obliged to collect offers because the procedure will, of course, be much less complex than in the public procurement process, and in some ways, introduce control and supervision of the choice of the best bidder. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56866	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First came from counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. She's gone, so she's losing her right to discuss this agenda item. I give my word to Denesh Shoi, who also signed up for a ten-minute debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56867	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. A colleague, Maric, in his debate at the outset, stressed that it was in a certain way a fateful regulation. It's also understandable if we have in mind and in front of our eyes a situation where the first 10, 15 minutes of every information show about robbery, about crime. Tomorrow morning when we open all our newspapers, the presses then the first few pages are also breaking news always something new and we live in such an environment that indeed especially for leaders and local communities and in other particular institutions there is a perception that one vast majority of me is such a harsh thief. Because that law is, in fact, passed in a certain way, by other countries, and we are changing it now for the sake of honest people. Well, I think honest people don't need that law at all. And it would be best if he wasn't gone, if it didn't make our lives miserable as far as administration is concerned, etc. It would be interesting for a quality view of that condition if someone had made one review of us all in the last year or two, three years of those who hadn't spent public procurement didn't respect it. What are these institutions, which are responsible people, how they are fined, jailed, etc. Is there some punishment in those provisions? I would like to see it myself because often we can also read in the press that it has been realized, but no public procurement has been carried out. It's a big investment. However, we have no knowledge. That responsible man who's been through the sanctions. I'm going to be free of this situation so I'm going to give an example of I have this certain experience as head of the local community now we're in the procurement process to see in practice what it looks like, the purchases of a certain winter machine with connected machines, etc. And, of course, with the attention of a good host, we went from Osijek to Zagreb and to Karlovac to see where we could get the cheapest, the best quality machine we need. And we've found, we've combined with other suppliers, etc. And now we've announced the tender for this acquisition, we've written everything except what color it should be. And now we expect and there will be a supplier, a few suppliers, and we will choose who we appreciate best and don't give God, and he will certainly be the one who is unhappy with that, so he will appeal to that decision normally and this procedure will go to the State Commission. And while that there, that public procurement, that procedure settles, I believe we'll be somewhere by the start of the third month, and we're actually planning on cleaning up with that machine, fixing our streets, snowing out, right? Thus, how much preventive action and positive, etc., this clean administration and this situation around this public procurement often makes life worse. Otherwise, I think, looking at practically there, my colleague Schucker mentioned what, over 200 municipalities that have up to 4.5 million of their budget. I don't think there's any room or chance of any huge robberies being done in any way by whoever's getting toilet paper or I don't know what's left of it. The big problems are precisely at those upper borders, at large, large investments in large areas, the least that is in rural areas. For us, I personally believe that this limit is, if it is increased in a certain way, for all colleagues who correctly and in order to say domestically refer to their budgets and to the means of taxpayers, that limit does not mean God knows what. It'll be easier to work if she's taller. Whether it's 200 or 550 now might talk a little bit. And a particular problem, I was talking about it when we were reviewing the report on the work of this commission, it's particularly relevant for rural communities, for small municipalities, in the complaints of the company that appear and for the performance of certain jobs up to 3.4 million do not make those complaints but hire a lawyer. So they don't have such a capable legal service and the State Commission if it finds even the slightest failure, a formal failure instead of three years, two, five, or what I know because we've had several cases like this, respects that appeal. It's now a tragedy to lose a few months, two days. However, there are 50, 100 to 150 kuna obligations for the orderer to pay the lawyer. And I stood up for it, and I said that this law should be built into a provision in this respect because it's for, and some lawyers specialize in it, they're just waiting and they're following it. And besides, they even suggested it to me from your service. This problem exists because this tariff is related to the value of the investment. As a rule, when large investments are at stake and often due to a truly formal small error, the client is obliged to pay a far greater amount to that lawyer than he had to pay for the initiation of the procedure. I will personally support this proposal, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56868	Thank you very much. A colleague named Jozo Radoš reported on the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56869	Col. Shoi and one of the reasons for this law is that the costs for carrying out the public procurement procedure for lower amounts were approaching the very amount and public procurement which would make the situation meaningless, including what you were talking about. I agree with you, of course, that there is a bigger problem when abuses and thieves occur at the highest level with multiple amounts than these limits set here. In doing so, all these restrictions are fully in line with EU directives and with the practice of countries in the environment. Therefore, a fearsome or false fear that this would result in a theft in this comparative way is not actually justified and represents political demagogy and hypocrisy. I will further highlight the two things that have been mentioned here along the way implicitly accusing the entire party, which is that when it comes to diplomatic consular representations, there were no jobs at all so far, it is only being introduced and increased in accordance with the lifting of restrictions on the supply of goods and services, and because of the specificity of the supply in culture, whether it is business, whether it is goods and services and in the European Commission's directive dealing with culture is due to this specificity of exceptions from these directives. Therefore, it is an initiative aimed at simplifying the process and honest people will continue to be fair, and thieves will, of course, always find their own way if the state does not prevent them from doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56870	A colleague named Ivan Shuker called for a debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56871	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister of Truth, I do not understand why he is so bile and why so many difficult words. If there are arguments that this bill is so good, then I don't know how it didn't go on the parent board. But even then, a representative of the ministry was asked certain questions, and we expected that today, when the deputy minister spoke on behalf of the motionary, he would answer those questions. But it is very interesting to mention that nothing has changed since 2008. So when you look at the fiscal capacity of local self-government units at the end of the day when you look at the state's budget compared to 2008, the state's budget deteriorated. The 2008 government budget deficit was 2.8 billion, this year it will be 17 and something else next year will be 22.23. Why? So because the revenue side of the budget has fallen due to the economic crisis, and the expenditures that must be incurred both in local self-government units and in the state budget remain the same and even some have been increased. So when you're really looking at the space for public procurement funds, first of all, I'm talking about local self-government units and finally when you look at what the government has been doing all these years and this one and she's been through, then you'll see that certain costs per ministry and other budget users have been reduced. If we look at this aspect to base ourselves on 2008 then we don't have any financial arguments for this raising of thresholds from 200 to 500 thousand kuna. Frankly speaking as a resolution minister, I've been out of 7 state audits for the Ministry of Finance seven times received unconditional opinion then I can take the right to say something and I was once mayor, that every smart man for any public procurement will provide himself with a bar to collect several offers to ensure in a certain way that someone can't tell him that they're good for someone because unfortunately they're such times. And that's why that's why I don't understand why we're going with this. But there's something else, and unfortunately this law doesn't solve, which is what they are. professional objectors. At the moment when the economic crisis started, and we have everything in the state administration, we don't need anyone to throw it on us, it's a public procurement commission, and it's got a public procurement office. As the economic crisis started for some jobs before 2, 3 possibly 4 bidders now come to you 40, 50 offers. And the normal thing is that when you choose the most favourable bidder, unfortunately, sometimes the lowest price is not the best. And I think that is what my colleagues in the Ministry of Education felt the most about many school facilities, and my colleagues in my colleagues' units in local self-government units where kindergartens are, etc. where they chose the most favourable bidder unfortunately he's in that folk's not always what's cheapest but unfortunately the most expensive. It was those who made the lowest offer, although it was seen from the plane at that time that the offer with these funds could not be completed by the facility that unfortunately led to the fact that the facilities needed primarily for the citizens who use it did not end because of it. So if the law was to solve anything, he should have solved those professional complainants. Punish them, it doesn't matter which way. Because look, if anyone complains without arguments, then he should be punished. And this 200 or 500 thousand kuna, I personally don't see any reason to lift those limits. Why? So precisely because I spoke to my colleague Đurić when I replicated it, unfortunately many local self-government units have a budget in Croatia of 800, 900, million kuna and up to 2,3 million kuna. Their purchases without the funds they receive from the state budget are in principle within 200 and 500 thousand kuna. So these 150, 200 units of local self-government won't be necessary at all to carry out public procurement because they'll be within those limits. And what's wrong can always happen. And I say dishonest people will always look for space to manipulate something. So why give me in a system that definitely needs to build on why we should give them space for it. Maybe this is the limit for some future time. Today someone told the Prime Minister or who in Austria on those hills up there gave you some piece of paper and that's how much you need to pay, there's none of this or that but they've achieved a certain culture of payments and everything. Croatia will probably come at a time like this. However, it is so gallant to defend something that I am not going to say is not defensive, but given the moment and given what is happening in Croatia at least it is not wise to suggest such a thing, there is simply no argument for it. Another thing to say is that so far nothing has been regulated in diplomatic and consular representations, so if I'm not mistaken, the billmaker has stated here that so far there have been 900 thousand kunas now rising to 3.5 million kuna. But when you go in front of someone else, you even forget to read it and you're going to say that nothing was regulated before, but here it is now regulated by this decision. That's what it is, but I'm saying it was written by the promoter, that's not what I said. Also when we talk about cultural monuments, yes, there are cultural monuments that when they're being restored, you have one or two people who can do it because no one can do it alive, but then you know exactly how and under what conditions. But if all the cultural monuments that are being restored should be excluded from public procurement, now that is one great questionnaire to me personally. And that's why I said it. However, what I am still concerned about and what is not clear to me, perhaps I do not know how to read well, and this is Article 15i on Article 5, where the new paragraph 7 is added, which says that, in principle, above the contract established by the contract, the price of 5% can be increased, while in the same article in paragraph 6a, the total value of all changes without VAT is less than 10% of the basic contract in public procurement without VAT, provided that the legal nature of the public procurement contract is not changed. Now tell me which of these two provisions will apply in the future and when, if this law is passed and if such paragraph 7 of the Deputy Minister is installed in Article 105? Which of these two provisions will apply? So by the current provision, that's 10%, and by this provision that you're proposing, which you've bought up a little bit, and then you're going to stretch to this side and that side, you're talking about 5%. At the very least, I think that the provisions of Article 105(6) of indent 2 and paragraph 7 should somehow be combined to be compatible. So, colleagues and colleagues, this bill might be smarter if we had considered it in two readings. There are a lot of mayors and mayors here, both present and former, there are a lot of people who have experience in public procurement, both with good and bad sides where many were once unjustly sued for some things even though they spent everything by procedure. And precisely because of their experience, because of all the data that we have in the analysis of the public procurement commission with basic complaints that everything happened in the public procurement process and all those analyses that this public procurement process in Croatia is so to say grown and matured from those initial maternity pains to having a system today. Now if the... system played out there's an institution in the state that needs to take care of such people. But when we pass the law then I think that with this law we should make as many obstacles as possible, as many doors as possible, so that those who have unfair intentions can't even get close to social money, I can't get anywhere near the money of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And that is why this law at least deserves a second reading, but I repeat, do not be based on 2008, so look fiscally, Croatia is unfortunately at this point fiscally at the level of 2004, far, far below 2008, and according to this, if you are based on 2008 look at the budget, the structure of the budget, and then you will see how much more money was used for certain purchases and for investments, all both local self-government units and the state budget. Today, the amount has been reduced due to a reduced revenue side resulting from the economic and economic crisis. And in the end, I thought I'd have a little bit more time left, and that's pretense settlements. Look at how many pre-price settlements we have at this point, just a few, and at the same time we're saying that this has been dealt with as much or as much. And with these pre-profit deals, many write down hundreds of millions of kuna taxes, and at the same time hundreds or several hundred subcontractors in those who forgive several hundred million taxes, unfortunately will not receive their 100, 200 or 500 thousand kuna and therefore may not be able to pay 50 or 60 thousand kuna taxes that they owe and will thus not be able to report to a public tender. If we swear that small and medium entrepreneurship is something that should be our spine and bearer of the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia, then we should think at this time that many of these small and medium-sized people are unfortunately cut off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56872	A esteemed colleague, Jozo Radosh, appeared in the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56873	Comrade Shuker, the problem is if you don't know what you just said, and the bigger problem is if you know what you just said. Now they pour crocodile tears for the bile of the debate, and just before you mention the three ministries leading as one party, implying that the party is actually creating conditions to abuse this law and do dishonest jobs, and you expect it to not be bile afterwards. Well, it's a direct accusation that you made in the replica of a colleague without being able to get me to answer that party and you want me to stay calm and there's no bile. You forget that. You don't read the law here. I said earlier that so far there was no separate supply of goods and jobs when it comes to the DKP. It wasn't, I don't know why it wasn't, it wasn't. See Article 12(1) of the existing law. And now it does not increase this lower item for the supply of goods and services but only in some ratio 1:3 rises the item for the purchase of works, as in all other cases, and it is a problem for you, it is a problem for you and yet you say that until now when I say that it is not worked out in the law that it is not true. See Article 12(1) of this current law, which is still valid and read the explanation of the applicant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56874	The replica matches Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56875	My colleague Radosh, it's the worst thing when people get hit by something that someone hasn't said or thought of saying. And read the phonogram and you will see. The other thing, very interesting, you can say about HDZ whatever you want, but you started calling it very rude... Yes, you are trying not to read it, and another thing is to read the introductory explanation of Mr. Leverić's phonogram, and you will see that he was talking about 900 thousand and 3.5 million kuna. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The ministry's representative on the Committee on Economy also said that. If he's lying to a goat, he doesn't lie to a horn. Therefore, trying to explain and justify something that is inexcusable is very difficult. But also, if anyone below... calls it you and you don't need to be angry, after all the debate on behalf of your club was purely correct. You have expressed your views, your opinion as I have expressed my personal views. I didn't insult anyone, I didn't attack anyone. But obviously, you, it's not the first time, you can't handle things, but that's your problem. And don't throw any more personal things away because then if we start to insult ourselves, then it won't end up anywhere because I don't think there's any need for that. But no, you believe that from the time of Yugoslavia you belonged to a sect that can say anything to anyone and no one can tell you anything. So we fought for it to be no more, so that everyone has the right to express his opinion, his attitude, no offense, and no humiliation. I have not accused your political party of anything. So I say who gets hit is his problem.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56876	A colleague, Jozo Radosh, injured the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56877	... He's talking about insulting the MPs. [[Specially enabled.]] I wasn't a member of any cult. If Mr. Shuker was referring to a sect called the Communist Party or the alliance of the communist Yugoslavs, then it is known who was a member of the sect and the representatives of which the parties here were the most bitter advocates and representatives of the sect. I was not a representative of that cult. That is an insult to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56878	This is how my colleague, Radosh, was not injured by the Rules of Procedure. Look, you're replicating, and then you have to agree to hear the answer to a replica in which false things can be brought out. But it's simple, when we accepted such a Rules of Procedure. Whoever doesn't want to be exposed to the risk of responding to a replica, don't rephrase it. Injury of the Rules of Procedure Schucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56879	Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you have injured the Rules of Procedure because Article 266 defines something else entirely. But you took the right to give in your comment in one part of the law for replication even though I don't understand why because you are chairing and you need to hold a session neutrally. But I'm saying, the elemental thing is that my colleague, Radosh, hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56880	If he calls on the wrong article that I don't get, there's no secretary here right now to check it out for me. If he calls the wrong article, no doubt he's wrong, and that's where I have to give you the right. We're moving on. ... Okay. [[- Intruder Shuker, you don't understand.]] We will continue now with an individual debate that we will conclude by exhibiting respected counterpart Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56881	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, the remaining colleagues and colleagues. So here, in this late hour, I try to return to, therefore, the topic of the agenda and these are amendments and additions to the Public Procurement Act, a law that is in this form, so it goes from 1.1. In 2012 and compared to the previous period, it is one that we have also coordinated about Europe, but also about our own desires and the previous period shows a lot of positive shifts. And if memory serves me well when we last discussed the amendments and the additions of this law my colleagues praised the shifts, so that we made at the beginning of the twelfth year. In fact, in the last year, we've been discussing this package of laws for the fourth time in a year, so to speak. So, for the second time on amendments to the Law on Public Procurement, and twice I remind you here we have discussed amendments and additions to the Law on the State Commission for Public Procurement Control. These changes and additions were of a narrow shape and were followed by an urgent procedure. But I am personally holding, and I have listened to my colleagues, and that is almost a disincentive that this is too important a law, i.e. that changes and additions within this law are too important to go by emergency procedure. I have to admit that I'm surprised in some way that after the government, and usually I have a media interest, the public interest is the biggest after the government when the law actually works like that orbi sees the light of day that it's passed in some way under the radar, that it hasn't shown anything, that there's not been any more debate over the law itself. The Committee on the Economy, which I chaired, discussed this proposal, and most of the members were, one abstention, all of us were, in fact, just because of this debate that we had heard very well about the conclusion that the law was sent to another reading. I must admit that I, as chairman of the board, did not feel very comfortable when the external board members, representatives of the Croatian Employers' Association, Croatian Chamber of Commerce today did not particularly popular Croatian Chamber of Commerce but, in turn, declared that they were not consulted in any way about these amendments and the addition of the law. What I mean is, these 10 minutes are very difficult to say, but I think my colleague Rilje is in his 11 points if I'm not mistaken, and I've said very well the position and most of the Club of Representatives of the SDP about what he's talking about. And if the result of this law is to be a baffle, so-called. We certainly did not, we will not, we will not achieve what we want and this law would suffer defeat. Let me only mention about two points that I personally say I mentioned 11 of my colleagues at Rilja Point, i.e. questions on which we could improve this law, to mention only two in the shortest lines. The first is the most frequently mentioned jump, so from 70,000 pounds of supply to 200000 for supplies of goods and services to as much as 500,000 for construction works. So I don't explain it in more detail. Any jumps when you pick up something with indices three, five, seven, or 300, 500, 700% indicate that either you had something really bad before or those steps are really too big. And I suggest we think again about what the construction work of 49999 kuna means today. We know what it looks like because you can really assign it directly to someone without asking them for any bonuses. I'm not talking about our business division skills, etc. Unfortunately, we are very often witnessing it. The second point that I would also try, but also primarily appeal to the proponent to think about this too, namely this bill only suggests that the fees be raised once and for several times, to think about someone and also look for the best international experience about some system of penalization for these relapsing or professional complainants, or I don't know what all their colleagues called them, to find some model in the Public Procurement Act, so that these appeals processes don't slow down our processes. In these changes and additions that I was talking about initially through the State Public Procurement Commission, something has accelerated this process. I understand and understand that this is insufficient, but by raising the minimum amount of appeal to 10,000 kunas if I'm not mistaken and then progressive towards above, I don't think we're going to achieve that goal. No law has said that and colleagues before me can change people and the human will to actually try to find those holes. One of our former colleagues said paraphrasing, and also referring to what colleagues had discussed earlier that the 1990s, regardless of what we had entered, were in a democracy that we still had the same heads on our shoulders. Then I say he's talking about democratic potentials and maybe people's desire to change everything overnight. This law, if I may, I say, is paraphrasing that statement that applied to society in general. We also have to make sure that this law is not only passed for the Government of the Republic of Croatia, it is made for all public procurement officers, for all these strong and county and cities and municipalities, as well as public undertakings and all those which are therefore bonds of the procurement process. And that we must therefore know that, although I commend the provision here saying that if it is a bazaar, it is a positive shift, that it is therefore duty to prescribe a certain procuring agent, etc. But I tell a lot of people who are going to give guns tomorrow, a much stronger weapon than they've ever had before, so in the hands of people, they're going to make a pretty non-transparent decision on public procurement. In fact, although they have democratic legitimacy, I will refrain from mentioning it, but many of our own and the mayors and other elected leaders, and some of them even have been elected with powerful judgments, have the opportunity to really expand this law, significantly extend their decision-making area. Unfortunately, the experience of Croatia teaches us and I think it is and therefore I am saying and I am going towards the conclusion that this step in this regard is therefore 7 times the amount for construction works is really too large. Where are you going to prove better that Croatia is certainly not prepared for this at this time from full prisons for various crimes, mostly economic crime. I therefore personally believe that this law is not a shift and that Croatia needs to move in every field towards transparency and I believe that in most of its provisions it is not this shift towards transparency and I really suggest that we at least consider going into another reading. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56882	Replica, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56883	Yes, I agree with you that many who have both electoral legitimacy and all have had all kinds of failures regarding public procurement. And that is why, given that the system of governance in local self-government units has changed, that there are no more executive councils than practically the mayor himself makes a decision to a million-dollar asset, we believe that, given the reduced fiscal capacity of the local self-government units, this amount of 70 thousand and 200 thousand kuna is something that should have remained. And also when we talk about diplomatic consular offices, Article 12 clearly states that so far there could have been supply of goods and services and works up to 900 thousand kuna. Now services, in fact goods and services remain on 900 thousand kuna, and according to the amendments to this law, work has been raised to 3.5 million kuna. It is written in this law, according to this and also in the light of everything that has happened in our diplomacy both at this and at that time, but since foreign policy is co-created by both the President of the State and the Government and, above all, I think that the President of the State would be much easier and easier because of this stage of responsibility because this cannot be decided at all because there is no agreement or opposition to any budget that remains an old provision rather than a new one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56884	Igor Radjenović corresponds to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56885	So that the whole point of my debate was that this was a question, rarely when my colleague Shucker and I agree in this assembly today, and I agreed with most of his debate and he with me, come on there are such rare Fridays or Wednesdays, today is Wednesday still. The whole intensity of my entire debate was precisely in that tone that changes to this law, I'm not saying, maybe I haven't used enough time to say what are the positive shifts in this law and I also see them, but that by simply the amount of their changes and additions it deserves to come before some brighter stage and that at least I say in two readings we all try to pass this law together. I'm saying, it's not just about making decisions of our purchasing service to the government and parliament, etc. but we really give free hands to many others to say in a country where unfortunately we can't keep it secret whether or not we want it and it doesn't matter at all which sides of the political stage and I don't want to polarise it, but simply most of the people in our prisons lately or at least what the media is most interested in are due to economic crime and from the world of politics. Whether it's in public procurement or not, but it's about darkening money. We had a solution that 200 grand was this leprosy supply, so we didn't cut it to 70 that long ago, four and five years ago. You step forward, and then it was a sudden step down, etc. And I remind you that both Sanader and Vidosevic and some other people were still at large. So now this step of seven times, a step of seven miles, or I don't know what I'd call it, seems really big to me. I don't know if I'm wearing it, I haven't had the experience of executive relations, but I am in this representative body of experience from Zagreb. I know how they split up the supplies there, I don't have nine seconds, and in nine days, I probably couldn't apologize for what was going on there and what was going on. I'm afraid we're putting too much of a weapon into the hands of people who don't have the legitimacy of transparency to make honest public procurement decisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56886	The closing statement on behalf of the HNS club will be presented by counterpart Petar Baranovic for 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56887	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I must, as former leader, deputy mayor of a big city, express my surprise at the claims that some colleagues who have also passed this experience have made during this debate. By putting this law in the context of a possible polygon for corruption, and by referring to a change in the limit of the value of works. A limit of the value of the work in my personal opinion has little to do with the possibility of corruption, abuse and crime. And I'm going to explain it in a very simple way. When it's called "the so-called." large public procurement, so public procurement, is not going to the bidding system under the current law over 70,000 kuna. There are a whole series of variants on which there can be a playful system, where embezzlement can be made and what can happen is the worst thing that we all fight, which is corruption. Very simple if you go through the cheapest offer the guys simply offer the cheapest offer, then corrupt the supervisory engineer who confirms the temporary situation and finally closes the book of completed works and if you are not aware as the head of local self-government, if you do not personally oversee all the system will be played, corruption happens and damage happens both for society and for the local self-government unit and for the funds of the taxpayers and everything else. There is another variant, it can corrupt your employee in the city administration if you don't check it yourself. So the area for corruption is possible you went to collect more offers or you went to classical public procurement. I personally had experience that I came to the construction site and visual check noticed that the rolled tampon and the height of the curb didn't match the arranged 12cm asvalt, 8 gussily, 4 habbling but simply it was that the guys wanted to put only 8cm of asvalt instead of 12. And if I hadn't gotten there myself, that would have happened. And there were such cases of x, and there was also an example of the coloring of the tunnel in which 6 hands were arranged very likely with an extremely low unit price, and it was certainly logical that whoever was performing the works of the pyturo was only three hands needed and there he had his own interest. If you made it art, you might find that there aren't six layers of paint in the tunnel but that there are logical three layers, and that those six were the handle for the playing system. The question of census 80,000 kuna why move it? Because so many of the jobs that are set and which, by the logic of things, are done by those of the smallest and most endangered craftsmen and entrepreneurs stand and as counterpart Nada Turina-Đurić, in her statement, passes over the next year due to the whole series of difficulties and the possibility of endless regrets, complaints and complaints when it comes to large public procurement. We can talk about preventing corruption in the modelling of bids, about the number of bids collected on the transparency of the process, these are mechanisms to fight corruption so that everything is transparent and clear. But to refer to a censorship that is multiplely greater in most European countries than in our country, we put absolutely logical things in a trivial framework, and things are so trivial. Here's when we talk about these 70 thousand kunas in the fight against corruption, let's say on our way out of the city administration, the first order of the 69,000 kunas signed for the resident weekly who was very diligently spit on my mayor and on the two of us, did a very detailed job, and then, through the order of the 69 thousand kuna, he ordered the job of the promotion of information for the benefit of my city. Let us not therefore gentlemen deal with peripheral matters and talk about the censorship of the value of works as a mechanism to prevent illegalities, crime, corruption and so forth. Irregularity, crime and corruption prevents repressive measures, severe legal penalties for such a thing, and not because of the 10 million kunas of embezzled budgets, it is time to peel potatoes and engage in voluntary work. It's ladies and gentlemen the real reason why guys are lightly different options and parties opt for marifetteluke. There is no reason for the level of censorship, and the level of censorship is the reason why millions and millions, tens and hundreds of millions of kuna jobs are waiting in the files of the Board of Appeals for public procurement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56888	We've got two lines reported. First honorary colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56889	I'm going to rephrase this to you last time you spoke. So to me honestly speaking and I was the head of the local self-government unit is not clear why in all the budgets.... /Speaker disabled./...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56890	The replica matches Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56891	Dear colleague Shuker, I must say that you are partly right. As a truly naive young politician who has just entered a political struggle, I have actually too late realized how much space for corruption lies in the field of media and how much you can corrupt the media to turn the picture and how in this way you can lose the election, even if you have worked honestly and consciously, mastered the funds, built, for example, a school that your predecessors planned to pay 70 million kuna for 49, and then you lose the election of those whom all the public competitions were dropping until the job was given to whoever was set. You lost the election even though in your term no public tender has fallen, no figures and letters in 4 years, none. And learn that lesson from your colleagues down there who obviously knew a lot better than we did. And of course you have that experience for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56892	The second line is from counterpart Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56893	Thank you, Vice President. So here's a very short replica. If this head of yours or successor from your unit of local self-government does not bring some particularly good procurator which this law foresees as a possibility and thousands of his colleagues will if the law remains in this form tomorrow on the first day or day of publication in the National Journal be signed in 199,999 for this service and for a number of other services which others alone and in their debate I have appealed about. So we all know certain dishonest, ungood actions in that direction, and that's why this law should go in the direction maybe not in the financial downturn to the end or go back around that figure, obviously we won't agree, not the same for all kinds of works. I've estimated that for construction works 500 grand is really a lot, but I'm saying that's an open topic. But the one where a legislator in my court should take a deeper stand is just to find the transparency mechanisms that will then commit them. Is this a public announcement, not only can and does not have to be submitted by the procuring officer, so it must be both a website and any other kind of public publication on the one hand, some council honors and I don't know what. I'd like to see it all in this law, plus this extra accent that needs to be put on these so-called. Professional mourners or I don't know what we called them, recidivist at regrets. The state has control over it. Someone mentioned a telecom company, etc. So it's a far more important part of this law to me, not just to put a weapon in everyone's hands and everyone's hands, and then not to bang on the head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56894	The replica matches Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56895	I agree with you that census is absolutely not a protection to prevent crime and corruption because it can happen with 70 thousand kuna levels, and it will also happen with a level of 700 thousand kuna, until this society finds an answer to the question of how to prevent and learn pre-dumbles from doing marifetteluke. And this can only happen in one way, and it is true that there are really conjectures for crime and corruption in this country, and not that it happens to us that you have enough to win over so much that you can afford one of the more sound legal names and this loose legal system when it comes to curbing corruption and crime enough to pay the master of a good lawyer and that behind that with the collection of expensive pictures you smile on the Croatian nation in the face. It's a key question, but it's not about this law. This law concerns creating assumptions for the unblocking of a whole series of low-value jobs where craftsmen and small entrepreneurs are currently existing because we have led the matter to absurdity, so for the implementation of the most trivial construction work that can be worth 100 or 150 thousand kuna instead of doing it in a relatively short time, quickly and efficiently, things have been moving away for years, and sometimes these jobs are related to terms, in season, with the preparation of the tourist season and with some other things. And in this way, we create huge damages, we bury the commission with thousands of objects, and people who in the local self-government units are preparing public procurement in this way are driving us crazy and inability to normally service our business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56896	The final address of Deputy Minister of Economy, Mr. Allen Leveric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56897	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So maybe here's a brief summary of what was said here today. Well, for starters, I'd like to thank you first. This year, we had four debates about the set, as the Honorable representative Radjenović told the Public Procurement Act, and in all four sets, I can honestly say that I listened to all the debate when I was preparing. There is no Mr. Maric, but I would like to introduce myself as one of the co-authors of this law and I have listened to four debates. Then I took all possible tone records from 2008 to today with all possible amendments and additions to the law... no matter what authority the political party was in charge of. I've listened to everything, absolutely everything, personally. I also took an analysis of the Public Procurement Act before 2008, so just like this, math would play a little bit, I like mathematics, and I think math is very important when information is given. First, the Public Procurement Act had a limit of 20 thousand kuna. Whoever remembers, it was a long time ago, increased 3.5 times to get to 70,000 kuna. This law increases 2.8 times, so from 70 to so many. And the other important thing is that in all this debate that was presented today plus 4, plus in the past, but especially now this year are the mourners, so just so that this law prevents regret is that so far, i.e. still worth 3000 kuna minimum appeal to you. The minimum appeal is 3000 kuna, not to say that then 4500 and 9 and 15 and 21 and 27 thousand kuna and of course the amount of the procurement process is small. Analysis of all this has been said plus if you look at the answers of the unit leaders of local regional self-government, everyone has complained that they can't be implemented projects, which you all in your discussions pointed out in previous discussions. Through this prevention of complaints of defined heights, etc. It will decrease, and the results will be seen because the State Commission has to file a report and we will see their results... the right to reduce the complainants through this way. Also today, several times it has been said that, there is no respected representative of the Bubal, the combined procurement will be economically harmful to the head of the body. So Mrs. Juričev-Martinchev also mentioned... the same, also that Mr. Bubalo would be more priced but transparent. For the first time now, let me read to you, in Article 6, in Article 18, we are adding to the question of procurement that the value is governed by the holder by his act. I do not doubt at all that the mayors and mayors, mayors, directors of the company will define in their internal acts, so gentlemen we are in the European Union, define how public procurement will go, and that is exactly what the Honorable Mr. Former Mayor Ante Sanader said, that you just need to solve the complainants and all public procurement should be in accordance with the acts. The truth is, a million kunas as much as it already amounts to for units of regional self-government, I personally know because I worked in the field self-government how it works... the mayor will bring an act, of course, because we want transparency in the system. So the absolute limits of 70, 200, 500000 kuna at this time have no bearing on the fact that we have also prescribed this article in Article 6. Also, this law did not come out by sitting down, by writing it, thinking about how much of a limit we would be to us than I said in the last 2008 are further possible debates, all possible directives, all possible examples of good practice in the EU, all examples of other countries that even the limits are much greater. We took the environment. I agree with the economic 2008, 2012, 2013 was not the basis of this law in economic terms. The laws were taken into account by countries that were in the current situations similar to or the same economic and demographic parameters as Croatia. Also, as far as the embassy is concerned, you personally think today has already been mentioned for consular representations that someone will allow me not to prejudge American, English, that someone will work at embassies representing both security issues and consulates outside and out, that companies that have not passed a security check within the state that holds the consulate. I think this was done all by European practice and by completely examples such as countries in the environment. Not a single number, even in some moves we're much, much smaller. And also in 2008 when that law was passed, I won't be, but look at the statistics it was the State Commission. It was in 2008 that the law proved to be bad, and everyone has been discussing the limits of 70,000 kuna in all discussions since 2008. I don't know today, and in a private debate, I try to find out why the limit was 70,000 kuna. No one knows. I can't understand. There was no European directive. There's not a single document telling you it has to be 70,000 kuna. Which is why it was 70,000 kuna. I have a calculation here, we know the parameters, we've done the analysis, we've taken the environment, we've defined the environment, we've defined it according to certain other parameters, but it's never been clear to me and it's increased three and a half times. Honestly, I thought it was 10,000 euros could be some reason, but it's 70,000 kuna, so I haven't done it yet. Also today’s vaccination or lesson, I have learned many new lessons about the Public Procurement Act, so I find it very interesting to listen to it. Personally, I didn't know there were such possibilities. But ultimately, the aim of reducing the complainants will be resolved in this way, not to complain about punishment. Second, the definition of the limit of the governing bodies may be made by an internal act. So I believe in body leaders or company directors. The law adopted on the basis of the analysis was not passed, so it would appear that it should be passed. Also, the increase, mathematically speaking, is always less than what it was. Here's why, it's a brief review. Of course, I thank you once again for the suggestions that have been made in these last four years in four debates. And a lot of honest, high-quality and good suggestions were made. And as you've seen, some have also been adopted here through this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56898	Now, at this final presentation, we have five replicas reported. First, colleague Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56899	Thank you. Here, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Leverich. Yes, we have concluded that this is an important issue, that it is 40 billion today in the public procurement system together with VAT and a lot of positive things that bear these amendments and additions to the law you have made in this final presentation, seven, eight minutes if I am not mistaken, and in fact, at least I understood it indirectly that it would be good given the importance of this law that we really discuss it in 2 readings. On the Committee on Economy, when, unfortunately, the representatives of the ministry did not have this analysis, he did not best explain the reasons for the emergency procedure and this was one of the main reasons why colleagues practically accepted the request. And from this debate today, I see the same thing, and I don't really see any reason why we shouldn't think a little bit more about the law, I say, because of our importance, we bring it really into two readings. I don't know why or how he brought it. There are colleagues who have more games in their legs, more mandates, so they remember when they passed that law and why. But the truth is worth mentioning that when that border was raised from 20,000 to 70,000 pounds, that in that old 2008 law, there was an institute called the so-called Institute. invitation tenders up to 200000 kuna and that they were actually mocked and ridiculed public procurement with then tenders from 199900 and three... And how it worked then. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's when the legislator, I say I followed it through the media then estimated that the institute was abolished, and that 70,000 was halfway between those two stories. Maybe that's the mystery of 70,000. I'm saying, those numbers aren't closed, let's discuss them all together, maybe that's 100,000, maybe 50,000. But every increase of three times for construction work seven times, you'll agree that it's a sudden step to discuss it this way overnight at an hour, two, on a debate Wednesday night after the current clock that took all the interest of the media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56900	The second replica is Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Rajedenovic took away a piece of what I wanted to replicate. But you said you didn't understand how it was raised from 20 to 70,000. Well, it's precisely because you had this interstep until you got it. So it's by invitation. And given the experience from previous years and look at how many budgets have grown. I keep thinking about how much the budget's been going up. I knew the city's budget when I was mayor. When I was mayor in 2001, it was 90 million kuna, and in 2008, that budget was 220 million kuna. It's also a state budget. In 2003 it was 80, 2008 was almost 120 million kuna. So the logical thing to do was to point out that certain purchases simply have to rise because up to 20,000 virtually you couldn't buy anything. 20,000 was the first step in the moment when it was introduced, actually when the Public Procurement Act was introduced, with me not even justifying these 70,000 kunas that we understand each other or saying that it's some lucky number. But also, with all your reasons, I don't understand why you're going to the 2,000 kuna, I don't see any reason for that. If you had tied this to some percentage by the budget, the original budget of the units of local self-government and budget users, so those who have so much can have so many and those below so much. Because I say you have certainly over 150 thousand units of local self-government that have a budget below 5 million kuna. If they do not receive any money from the Croatian Waters, they do not in principle have any purchases of more than 500 thousand kunas as regards the works of some in their municipality. So I don't see the point of limiting them, they can practically do all their jobs without public procurement. And tomorrow, because of political accounts, which is unfortunately the case in Croatia, an article in the newspaper will take place, so you wash as much as you want and it will eventually prove that everything is fine but it will not help you. At least this way you have a law that you can appeal to, so you can defend yourself in a certain way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56902	Third replica, Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56903	Here I was just looking for two tips, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. So here's to making a commitment to what exactly is prescribing? Well, we can look at all the laws of honesty then, and it is not at all questionable whether all the leaders are fair, but the fact that they can use mayors, commissioners and all the other leaders of the original budget is 0.5%. So that's for one city 50 million about 250 thousand kuna. And with more than that he can't handle. If he's allowed to budget, he'll have to pay up to a million kuna. And that's the truth that's worth it now. He can't do more than that. As far as the cleavage is concerned, here I am not going to talk about it, a little more has been said about it by my colleagues, but I also mentioned it and it is true that it is not the cleavage of the procurement, but the cleavage of works that can actually be formally connected. But here we are going to make them informally unrelated and separate them into two public procurements. Is that so? The fact is that there are experiences that say it's happening, and now on someone who can question it, let them question it. So I'm just joining what counterpart Rajedinovic just said, it might be convenient to think about everything. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56904	The fourth replica, Josip Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56905	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy, I think it's unnecessary to raise limits that are quite low, correct and they justify their purpose of protection and legality, and we don't doubt our fellow mayors, mayors and mayors, but I think this was quite a limit that allowed clear criteria to be obtained in such a supply, which is not possible. Everything else, colleagues said, we're all familiar with the possibilities of various abuses. I would call this law a truly lewd law because it really brings nothing good but just a greater possibility and, as I said, opens this hidden door that did not allow a team that could possibly reach or reach out to do so in these purchases that are up to 70 thousand kuna. When you talk about embassies and security checks, the entire government has been chosen not to have any security checks done. That's what we were talking about at the beginning. Later, the Law on Verifications changed, and everything else adjusted to moments, so some had to step down because they were not able to be safe and it was seen in the end that they had certain investigations against themselves, so they did not meet the conditions. So don't make 3.5 million in any embassy available to the ambassador or their employees, it's certainly not good and not good. It is suspected of wastefulness and the possibility of malfeasance and corruption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56906	And the last replica of my colleague, Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56907	Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, you spoke about how you proposed this law after a long comprehensive analysis of European practice and European documents on which it rests, a comparative analysis of the situation in the environment on the basis of which you did this law. You also talked about how you engaged yourself and listened to all the tone documents on the discussions on this law since 2008. However, this will not be enough colleagues, Mr. Deputy, because this law has obviously entered the focus of possible acceptance by citizens to be the cause of corruption, increased corruption, and then MPs who dispute this law are putting themselves in the position of accusing others of possible corruption or showing themselves to fighters against this possible corruption, and then Mr. Deputy all analyses, all European documents, all European practices and comparative analysis of the environment are unfortunately not helping you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56908	Replication response, Deputy Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56909	Thank you very much, Reverend Radosh. And I'm a little honestly confused because it's the head of the body in comments on previous laws and public procurement restrictions that have commented that these restrictions are just not good and now suddenly I hear the distinguished MPs here say they're enough and that these limits right now give us as a fuse they're possible further under the quotes of corruption. What I mean now, and this law is fully in line with all European directives and all practices in the EU, and an additional fuse is also added in Article 6 and this fuse allows the client to define the rules of the game within the institution it represents. I think it's enough fuse to believe in a 200 thousand or 500 thousand kuna limit, it can be smaller or larger. But also just one thing very important, this law is, as I once said on the trail of all that is said in this distinguished House, on the trail of all opinions and institutions that are actively involved in it. And what's very important has a positive opinion of all the ministries when it was brought to the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56910	I thank the Deputy Minister. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when conditions are made.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56911	Let's move on. Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Public Procurement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 194. The debate on the final text of the law is over. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Economy, I am voting on the next conclusion on the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, a debate was held in the first reading. Please make a statement. Who's in? ... Then what do we do? ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay. I understood everything but now it's too late. Therefore, amendments to the text, final text, amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to the Final text of the Public Procurement Act came. I'm changing my mind but I have to ask who is to conclude that a public debate is being held on the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act? ... And in the first reading. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] When it goes wrong, it goes wrong all the time. Who's in? Go ahead. [[- Sir.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56912	President, I'd like to now, really now there's been created one Let's get this straight, so the government has submitted an amendment. [[/Intruder: What is created?]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56913	So we remain on the ground that there is a proposal for a conclusion of the Committee on the Economy of the Croatian Parliament, a proposal for a conclusion, and we must first declare So that's why I'm asking us to make a statement. [[Good job, but..]] Therefore, the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act was held in the first reading. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Okay. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it mostly votes. I find that the conclusion has been rejected, 83 MPs voted against the conclusion and 16 for it. Thank you very much. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56914	Your Honor, Mr. President, have I now fully understood that the rulings have proposed a conclusion and have now voted against it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56915	No, I don't. The board is the working body of the Parliament. The working body of the Parliament. You're not okay. Let's go, let's go this way. Branko Vuksic, come in. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56916	Mr. President, Mr. Radenovic was restrained and we only have two results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56917	You're asking to vote again?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56918	Yeah.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56919	I agree, we'll do it again. Once again, in accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Economy, I am voting on the next conclusion on the final proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Public Procurement Act, a debate was held in the first reading. Who's in favour of that conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against that conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Can we get a score? So I find that the proposed conclusion was rejected, the conclusion voted 17 against 81 votes and a abstention of 2 votes. Accordingly, the government submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Croatian Parliament's Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please let us know who's up for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 94 votes in favour and 6 votes against are accepted to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the Government of the Republic of Croatia's Deputy Minister Leverić, with due respect, to show about Amendment No 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Article 6.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56920	This amendment lays down the responsibility of officials by clearly defining the prohibited action in relation to the impact on the acquisition of transactions or the conclusion of a public procurement contract on those goods, the service of works not subject to the Public Procurement Act.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56921	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Article 6. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I shall vote on Amendment No 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Article 6. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most votes, 84 votes in favour and 16 votes against Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Article 6. The law. Amendment No 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to Article 15 The law. I'd like an esteemed Deputy Allen Leveric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56922	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That statement makes it clear that the above limit of the value threshold is not necessary to conclude an add-on to the construction contract only if the total amount according to the final calculation is not higher than 5% of the foreseeable price of the construction determined by the contract and provided that the construction contract itself is so designed, with the fulfilment of the previous rules, the determination of the total price, the final calculation in accordance with the practices and practices in construction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56923	I am opening a debate on Amendment No 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia on Article 15. The law. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Please state who is in favour of Amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia under Article 15 of the Law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 84 votes in favour and 18 votes against, have adopted Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. It became an integral part of the final bill. I would ask the Deputy Minister to show himself on the amendments of the Committee on Law. Amendment No 1 to Article 10. The law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56924	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56925	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No 2 to Article 14. The law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56926	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56927	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. That concludes the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please raise your hand to plead who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 1 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Public Procurement in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56928	We move to the next item on the agenda, it's under: 9. A) Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and B) Proposal for a decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency is the Proposer of the Decision by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth The law on energy regulation is laid down for the Croatian Parliament to appoint presidents and members of the Governing Council on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You have received a proposal for an act. I ask if the applicant's representative would like to add an explanation of the proposal? No, I don't. Okay. I'm opening a debate. Here you go on behalf of the club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56929	Mr Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament Article 179 is foreseen that the item of the agenda comes to the agenda at the parliamentary session. So as I have before me a call from the Chairman of the Committee on Economy, and the Committee on Economy is the parent body, the 20th November, and that is, if I am not mistaken in a week, I should discuss two points, which is the proposal for a solution and a proposal for a decision on appointment. As far as I know there is no record, at least I haven't seen it, the Committee on Law, so two parent committees haven't discussed these points of the agenda, and therefore I think that, despite the fact that this is the technique of Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Chairman, you would have to protect the integrity of this High House and that these items of the agenda are not discussed until the parent committees have done so and until the Committee on Legislatives has done so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56930	This is how, by consulting the Rules of Procedure, and I can only say this, so the Committee on Law has never discussed the elections and there is no obligation for the committee to discuss such a item of the agenda before it is discussed in plenary, there is no obligation. So we'll keep working. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56931	See what he says here, "The President of the Parliament delivers a written proposal to the laws of the presidents of all working bodies to all MPs" that is Article 178. This Regulation shall enter "Before the debate on the draft law at the meeting of the Chamber of Directors of the Labour Committee and the Legislative Committee are obliged to include the bill", so they are "to attend a session of the Committee". I don't know how we're going to interpret it if the implications here are so they're obliged, they can't be said, they have to, they're said to be, it's Article 179(1).
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56932	So they are really obliged to deliver to the Committee's agenda, but the Assembly can discuss the plenary session without their opinion and this is not a law but a choice and appointment. If you think otherwise, please contact the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Now I'm opening a debate on this agenda item. On behalf of the HDZ Club, the esteemed Ivan Shuker appears. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56933	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues, I don't think this is a good practice to do things like this. In the previous agenda, we had that the Committee on Economy did not support the bill. if the representatives where the ruling majority of the board has not proposed their majority do not give a positive sign for a certain law or green light then the logical thing to suggest that this law should be discussed in a different way as the MPs ask for it. Okay. The debate showed what she showed. So without intending to delay on behalf of the club this item of the agenda, simply as opposition MPs and allow me, and as a minister who was 7 years head of a ministry and as I recall in this House, it never happened to discuss the points of the agenda before they were discussed by the parent board. Not wanting to enter or personally disqualify any of the proposed members, I would just like to say that the HERA, and we could eventually unite these two points of the agenda if you agree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56934	We can, but I didn't announce them. How am I supposed to unite now?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56935	Okay, here's a colleague agree to join us in not going out twice if you want to, I don't want to say the same thing twice. [[/Intruder: Come on.]] So I did not intend to discredit any proposed member at all, but I think given the importance of HERA, given that the government practically took the right to post local self-government units decide on price and electricity and heating rather than to place it all in the power of HERA, therefore, and given what happened over the past year when HERA agreed to increase the price of electricity at the same time as HEP four months ago asked HERA for permission to reduce the price of electricity it took 3 or 4 months to make that decision. Why am I bringing this up? I mention for the simple reason to say that HERA I mention for the simple reason to say that HERA as a regulatory body has a very important function, especially today when citizens barely, most unfortunately, and those minuses on current accounts cover heating costs, electricity costs. And I think it would be correct if the parent board had discussed the candidates, and even in a certain way that in a indirect way, it might have gotten a little more knowledge about these candidates. Because Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues, if you look at the materials that we have received, then you will even see that they even have a unified way of giving their résumé, in which they described some of their professional careers so that it is very difficult to compare certain things. If we had a Committee on Economy, we would probably have received more information about candidates who were proposed for both one function and another, I say without the intention of discrediting any of the ladies and gentlemen concerned. As far as the Competition Protection Agency is concerned, I must say that the former president of that agency was doing her job correctly at times when Croatia was slowly transforming and preparing to join the European Union and now that agency is getting a very important role. And which means the role of AZTN, see only colleagues and colleagues what happened to our Slovenian neighbours about the return of some funds that are illegally spent, and AZTN is just the extended hand of Brussels in Croatia as regards illegal support and legal use of funds, and also because of the concentration of certain economic operators on the market of the Republic of Croatia. And the logical thing is that the parent board on the economy should have discussed it, the same thing to get additional information because in one résumé you have described in detail what a certain candidate or candidate was doing, while in the other it is not even mentioned at all. In some it is evident that they come from the area for which they are named, which is AZTN, although the head man was practically another man of the agency in the past, while some people came from completely different areas. I don't even know how many people have had a chance to deal with this area that regulates AZTN. However, it is obvious that neither the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure nor anything else is in the capacity of parliamentary representatives anymore, and therefore, frankly speaking precisely because of the violation of this procedure that parliamentary deputies have asked no one at this time to honestly say anything, not wanting to hurt candidates who are also proposed for one and another agency, I do not know what the position of the HDZ club will be about voting, I say not wanting to personally hurt any of the candidates but I think that such important appointments are simply not served by the Croatian Assembly for honor, and also when they are heated discussions about the reports of these agencies, then we will certainly remember the way in which we appointed the leaders.... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56936	Thank you. I am now concluding the debate on both points of the agenda, on the proposal for a decision to resolve members of the HERA Management Council, the Proposal for a decision to appoint a member of the HERA Management Council and a debate on a proposal for a decision to resolve the President and part of the Competition Protection Council members and a proposal for a decision to appoint a president and part of a member of the Competition Protection Council. We'll vote on both points once the conditions are met. And now we're gonna stop working. We will continue tomorrow at 9.30 11 p.m. in our adopted agenda today, this is the final draft law amending and supplementing the State Support Act. Thank you very much. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-11-13-0.u56937	Proposal for a decision on the discharge of members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency and Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency. The debate on the proposals for a decision is closed. I am voting on the motion for a solution first. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 80 votes in favour, 22 votes against and 8 abstentions have been decided to resolve members of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in the text as proposed by the proposal. I am now voting on the motion for a decision on appointment. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in favour of the proposed decision? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 80 votes in favour, 22 votes against and 8 abstentions have been decided to appoint a member of the Governing Council of the Croatian Energy Regulatory Agency in the text as proposed by the applicant.
