ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30898	I thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. So respected representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In short, I'll give one review for all four legal proposals. Therefore, the proposal for a law on materials and articles that come into direct contact with food, material and objects in direct contact with food in the Republic of Croatia is governed by the Food Act and the Regulation on the health of materials and articles that come into direct contact with food. Therefore, at EU level, those regulations are regulated as secondary sources of EU law which will be directly and fully applicable in the Republic of Croatia by a legislative proposal ensuring their application. The law defines the tasks of the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the implementation of those Regulations. The Minister of Health may be authorised by another body, and cooperation with competent public health services is prescribed. The proposed law prescribes national provisions whereby entities in the business of materials and articles in contact with food in the obligation of the Ministry of Health shall declare the activity of production and processing and placing on the market of materials and articles intended for direct contact with food and it shall be prescribed that official controls on the implementation of those Regulations and the draft laws are carried out by sanitary inspectors. It is also prescribed that customs supervision of the implementation of EU Regulation No. 284/2011 of this law is carried out by the Customs Administration of the Ministry of Finance. All 4 legislative proposals that will now be presented are subject to the proposed law respecting the specificity of the time and process of accession of the EU Republic of Croatia and allowing for the flexible adaptation of domestic legislation to EU legislation and the direct application of EU regulations after the accession of the EU Republic of Croatia. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No On 14 March 2012, the European Parliament and the Council adopted Regulation (EC) No 259/2012 of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Regulation (EC) No 148/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 31 March 2004 on detergents. The EU's 648/2004 Parliament and the Council since 31 March 2004 on detergents that are prescribed to use phosphate in household detergents. Member States are required to extend the powers to act as inspection bodies in relation to the use of phosphate in household detergents and to impose penalties for breach of the provisions of that Regulation. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law implementing Regulation (EC) No 689/2008 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals. This legislative proposal proposes supplementing the law implementing the EU Regulation of Parliament and of the Council on the import and export of dangerous chemicals and is related to the following, laying down the powers of the Minister of Health to authorise another body to carry out specific professional tasks and consultations by the Ministry, without prejudice to the competence of the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulation. It is prescribed that the Ministry of Health, as the competent authority for the implementation of the tasks laid down in the Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the export and import of dangerous chemicals, cooperates with the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Anti-doping and is authorised by the Minister of Health to adopt regulations, orders and guidelines for the implementation of legally binding acts of the European Union adopted under the Regulation. These fourth proposals, the Law amending the Law on genetically modified organisms, redefine certain concepts within the meaning of the law in question and extend the existing terms to new definitions in order to refer to the relevant regulations of the European Union which will be applied directly after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Provisions on competent authorities for the implementation of GMO-related administrative and professional activities are redefined in accordance with the Act on the Part-Corruption of the work of the central authorities of the state administration and a legal basis is laid down for the authorisation of the national reference laboratory for the examination, control and monitoring of genetically modified organisms and products containing or consisting of or originating from GMOs. The provisions on competent inspection bodies for its implementation and provisions on the application of the relevant recommendations of the European Commission relating to the sampling of GMOs in the implementation of official controls shall be revised. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30899	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the representatives of the working bodies of the Board of the Croatian Parliament wish to present the report? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. The debate begins with the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The first is the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament and the respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30900	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So I will in this section concerning materials and objects in direct contact with food, and my colleague, Cobankovic, is in the second part. Namely, materials and objects that come into direct contact with food fall into the subject of general use and are part of everyday life. These are, for example, dishes, accessories, appliances and packaging and material and objects area and are therefore arranged by the 2007 Food Act, complemented on several occasions by the Regulation on the health of materials and articles that come into direct contact with food. Of course, those laws and regulations transpose the provisions of the 2004, 2006 regulations into national legislation, each one has its own set so that there may be no need to specify them in particular, but they are certainly extremely important, and now this is the moment when we are putting it all into national legislation and is a mechanism for further implementation. And Mr. Deputy Minister made it very clear why, in what form it is arranged and which defines the tasks of the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the implementation of those Regulations. In addition, it is prescribed that the Minister responsible for Health may authorise another body for the purpose of carrying out specific professional activities and consulting of the Ministry of Materials and Objects. There are therefore very clear indications and tasks to accept requests, ensuring that this is carried out within a specified time limit. This law also prescribes the obligations of entities that deal with materials and articles which are in contact with food, which are mandatory to the Ministry of Health to declare the activity of production, processing and placing on the market of materials and articles intended for direct contact with food. The services of control over the implementation of those regulations and laws are also defined, those are sanitary inspectors. So that's that legislative framework that we understand, and in that part, I don't think I have anything special to add. But it is certain that this is about food and objects that come into direct contact with food, and it is necessary to say about food that is extremely important and that we are discussing daily and we have discussed in this House when we said that simply these current circumstances are sufficient amounts of food, above all quality food, and consequently our food industry is having difficulties. We therefore witness that milk production has fallen, meat production etc., but every once in a while, every once in a while, there are some events that resensitize to say so to the public as well as what is happening in recent days with milk, with microtoxins in milk, and in that part, everyone has now become very professional. And it's about the next one, and then at the end of what's going on, the guilt is again on the one that's the weakest one, on our manufacturer, and imagine controlling that milk malfunction and these microtoxins... found another country's inspection. Well, he's saying that enough for himself. This is an extremely bad message to our farmers who are in and out of a difficult situation, which just a lot of people are on their knees and I think that this event really requires one special view, one special consideration mainly because it's about food that is constantly said to be strategic, that it's important, and it's simply allowing one uncontrolled import and there's simply control in us and it's necessary to say very clearly. There is control of us specifically in the cruise laboratory there is control and it is necessary to do control that happens to the shelf, not when that product is found on the shelf. So I repeat again in this place about this problem and that it does not go hasty, that those who really bear the greatest burden are not accused. Furthermore, with regard to the equipment in which this food is placed, I may also need to say that the public is not sufficiently aware of this food equipment. For years, the consumer’s thinking was that healthy food was important, not counting on what the environment meant for the packaging in which that food was placed, and it is very clear and easy to interact. So, to the interaction between food and the packaging in which it is prepared. And today, such an attitude is certainly wrong because the materials and objects that come directly into contact with food are not inactive, and different interactions with food or the environment can directly affect food health. And in any case, it is commendable to say that lately such a trend is changing because food packaged in packaging should be seen as a whole, i.e. as a complete product which is very important in choosing the best kind of packaging. This trend, as well as the importance of material and objects coming into direct contact with food, also confirms a large number of EU regulations, which I have talked about earlier on about different types of materials and objects that did not exist at all several years ago, while food legislation includes drinking water covered almost entirely only being upgraded. Consumers today think differently and become more demanding taking into account the health and environmental aspects of materials and objects that come in direct contact with food, resulting in the finding of new types of materials as well as the expansion of packaging from these materials on the market. Today's trends have resulted in the development of new packaging technologies as well as the emergence of active intelligent packaging and recycled and biodegradable materials. And now it is important to mention that active materials and articles are considered materials and objects that extend the period of life or maintain or improve the condition of the packaged food. Its purpose is to deliberately contain ingredients that release or absorb substances from or from packaged food or the environment surrounding food. Furthermore, there is also intelligent materials and objects that monitor the state of the packaged food. Special attention is given in any case here on recycled materials and their reuse. I think there is this view of sustainable development, and in the last few years, the greatest shifts have been recorded in this area. But none of the things can be used completely or infinitely. And certainly these regulations are also an extraordinary place, so plastic as our daily companion we see it in every packaging that plastic is defined in different ways. But of course it matters how it's done and it's the most represented, etc. So, in any case, it is also necessary to say that both food production and packaging are introduced and modern technologies such as the use of nanoparticles etc. So it would take a long time to read about it, but it certainly needs to be taken into account. However, in any case materials and articles in contact with food must not be transferred, it is important to underline there, not to transfer to food substances in quantities that can endanger human health, cause unacceptable changes in the food system. The responsibility for this shall be borne by all entities in the production chain of material, articles in contact with food or in the food packaging. Of course, responsibility is borne by all those who care about our home country’s food production, with the note that it is also easy to care for those who produce food because we certainly produce quality food, and in that sense I hold that these changes will also help. But since I'm running out of time here, I'll leave my colleague behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30901	The second part on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community club in the Croatian Parliament, respected representative Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30902	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Thank you very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much, very much. Here I will speak of how much time I am allowed on this Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms with a final proposal for law and I would like to stress that this is a very important and important area for the Republic of Croatia, an important area for both health care and the important area for agriculture. What I would like to point out at the very beginning is that this is a alignment with EU legislation and this law, amendments and additions to the laws are I would say further harmonisation or almost full compliance with certain regulations and provisions with EU legislation. But what I would like to stress is the need for Croatia as a country to continue in agriculture, but also in food production it remains free from genetically modified organisms. I would like to stress that this area was regulated by the Nature Protection Act by 2005. Then, in 2005, the Law on genetically modified organisms was adopted. I would like to remind you that in 2005, as a ministry, we had one intervention when we found that in a particular seed of corn there was a greater involvement of genetically modified organisms and then we went in the direction of destruction, meaning to remove from the nature of these heated, on these heated surfaces or better said the destruction of that crop of that corn hybrid. If we had said it that way, I would have started controlling the genetically modified organisms in the seed, which is very important to emphasize. And when we determined the larger quantities in a particular crop, we went and destroyed it to avoid pollution in the environment in the Republic of Croatia. What is particularly important to highlight for the Republic of Croatia is the importance of quality and healthy food. It is something that the Republic of Croatia should create better assumptions about what I would say one of our comparative advantages, and this is for further development of tourism to arrive as many guests as possible who should be consumers and consumers and food from the Republic of Croatia. And that is why it is very important and important to control GMOs and I would say further insist that Croatia be free. Of course, this law also creates certain assumptions, it is harmonising with EU legislation. This law lays down regulations to which this area is regulated in the EU and regulations relating to the cross-border transfer of GMOs to genetically modified food and food for animals, and then rules relating to the application for authorisation of new GMOs and animal feed, as well as notifications on existing products and accidental but technologically inevitable presence of GMOs which have been positively assessed in risk assessment, detailed rules relating to the Community reference laboratory for GMOs and establishing a system for the development and allocation of unique identification codes for GMOs. What I would like to warn here is about the provision in the draft law where the authorisation for the placing of GMOs and GMOs on animal food according to the proposal of this law is issued by the Minister of Health, while in the current 2005 law and the 2009 amendments, it was said that the Minister of Health granted the approval, but that it should have had the agreement of the Minister of Agriculture which I am holding would also be good to highlight the need for the agreement of the Ministry of Agriculture. Here, what more do you say about this law? This is one step in further compliance with our legislation with EU legislation and this is something that we needed to do, but I also want to emphasise another need for Croatia to remain a GMO free country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30903	Thank you, Your Honor. It's registered to your replica display. Dear Representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30904	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, your colleague, Cobankovic, has underlined the moment that it is necessary for Croatia to remain free of GMO food. I absolutely agree, but with that, almost 90% of our country's citizens agree. It's just a little weird that simply this problem doesn't come to the public enough. And the passing of this law is also an emergency. I think it required a longer discussion. So after the time our counties were manifested, here I have a list of all these counties, the first was the Istrian County which was manifested free of GMO food, all in all order. So look at the EU itself, this green card also says what the situation is. I think in that part we should insist, but also insist that there is enough potential in our country to produce quality food. But, unfortunately, this year and last year, we witness this trend of unfortunately food failure and the reduction of food production, and these latest developments do not contribute to this. So I think we should insist on that because we have the potential and we can produce quality food. Of course, only manufacturers need to be provided with conditions to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30905	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Petar Cobankovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30906	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My dear colleague, I would very much agree with you, and I would say that such laws that sensitize the Croatian public in many ways would be good if it were to go in the direction of a certain public debate, that a wider circle of stakeholders could participate in this debate and make their own proposals, and we often hear an apology that because of the need of certain deadlines and the like. Yes, if we see that after 14 months, since this coalition and this government took responsibility for running the Republic of Croatia, this law comes. The proposal could have come six months ago, so a good guess could have been created for a good one, I would have said public debate. What I would say here is that this law is looking at a clean alignment with the EU acquis if it were him, I have no objections. But what I want to stress is the need for the Republic of Croatia to be recognized for its health and quality and food free from genetically modified organisms because it is something that is the recognizability of food from the Republic of Croatia. And precisely, I said, and because of the growing number of tourists coming to the Republic of Croatia and because of the increasing possibility of placing our food on the domestic market, the same consumption in tourism can also be considered to be the most quality and best exports because goods do not cross the border, the state border, but are spent on domestic territory. And that's why I'm calling for us to remain free from genetically modified organisms.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30907	Thank you very much. The next club is the HNS club and the first part of the respected representative Igor Coleman, the second part of the respected representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30908	I would like to thank Mr. President of the Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs, the esteemed Deputy Minister of Health, and on the other hand, the Minister of Construction, who will still have to wait a little while, since we seem to have been reported here more than was expected at the first moment. I will talk about materials and objects that come in direct contact with food, and my colleague Baranovic will talk about GMOs. This law introduces provisions 7 into Croatian legislation. The European regulations and I think it may be interesting indeed in the very short, shortest lines just to see what we are actually entering into Croatian legislation, what are the topics that these regulations are dealing with in the first place. So Regulation 1935/2004. discusses active and intelligent materials and articles which, in contact with food or as part of the packaging, release certain substances in order to prolong sustainability or preserve, or improve the state of the packaged product or whether specific consumer information. This Regulation lays down what they are allowed to do, which they must not do, how they are marked and, therefore, what is to be taken into account in the definition of these materials. Regulation 2023/2006. concerning the production of materials that come into contact with food. Therefore, it prescribes a uniformity and quality control with an emphasis on protecting human health and preserving the composition and organoleptic properties of food. Regulation 1895/2005. the rules which substances must not be contacted through the packaging, mention among them, and, if I have properly decrypted both bisphenol A and B which are often mentioned in both the media and in those various occasional cases, affairs when such substances are found too much in any food pack, whether in other products. Regulation (EC) No 450/2009. re-involves active and intelligent materials. Here I find it convenient to see what active and intelligent materials are. Active materials are those containing substances which are released into food, so the packaging releases a substance in order to extend its sustainability or preserve quality. It may also include additives and enzymes which, other than this Regulation, also fall under the regulation governing the issue of food additives and enzymes themselves. In addition, intelligent materials are the ones that give the user information on the state of food most often and can be found on the outside of the packaging separated from food by a barrier that prevents the migration of particles into the food itself. Regulation 282/2008. It deals with recycling, prescribes criteria to meet materials that are re-used after recycling in food packaging. There is a special emphasis on eliminating contamination that can be achieved using, with previous use, the most important thing here is plastic, but also other materials. Because, of course, we can't predict it, and we can't even know what all the packaging came up with before we recycled it and re-used it in the food package, so it's really an important area that needs to be regulated very precisely. Regulation 10/2011. prescribes general composition, conditions, specific conditions, restrictions on materials, release or migration of particles, combination with other packaging materials, and then how documentation is conducted, and how materials are tested, again with a particular emphasis on particle migration. This Regulation also contains a Union list of 885 different substances, i.e. chemical compounds, which can be used as food packaging materials and, of course, without any doubt, prescribes these provisions and how they are treated and what is done with those materials, or chemical compounds that are not among those 885 on the Union list. And lastly, Regulation 284/2011. concerning imports of plastic kitchen products from China and Hong Kong. In view of the frequency or frequency of the presence of potentially carcinogenic substances in excess of those products. And it's actually, colleagues and colleagues, it's actually the EU as far as we're concerned here in the Parliament, as far as legislation is concerned. Behind this law, which has about a dozen articles and several pages, there are hundreds and hundreds of pages of regulations that, when you read them each, each of these regulations then drags them into one, two, three, four, eight of the following regulations or directives. And our job here will be that in the part where it is possible, it will not always be so, but still keep some level of control over what we are actually introducing into Croatian legislation. This all seems like a huge administration and like a huge amount of unnecessary work, on the other hand it should be kept in mind, let's say especially in this case, this is about protecting our health, all of us and life, so basically this is basically one positive intention. Of course, typical of the EU prescribed in a huge amount of text and various regulations that are connected to each other into an almost inexplicable network. However, what will be our business and what we in the HNS club especially as liberals have the need to point out is that in all this bunch of regulations that will come here and with the best intentions with which these regulations have been made, we will always have to be careful and we must be careful that, under the excuse of health protection, or environmental protection or some third protection, we do not actually introduce in our own legislation any restrictions and certain provisions which do not have justification in what they are calling for and to that extent do not achieve the objectives they claim to achieve, and on the other hand, introduce restrictions, additional administration, additional work and additional problems for all of us in the Republic. In any case, we are of course in favour of this law, there is no dispute, but we have taken advantage of this opportunity to remind everyone that there is a great deal of work ahead of us and a huge responsibility we have not had so far because EU regulations are much harder to pass than the laws we have brought to the Croatian Parliament so far. A colleague of Baranovic's. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30909	And the second part of the respected representative Petar Baranovic on behalf of the same HNS club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30910	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Your Honor, Madam Minister, Your Honor, ladies and gentlemen. This law, when you take it into your own hands and you start to read, actually works very badly and generally comes down to the indication of all those EU regulations that are important in this area and which this law in some way creates as a formal legal framework, turns into a formal legal framework for which Croatia should be referred, of course, and especially after joining the EU. What to say about the areas covered by these Regulations, which are covered by this law and which should also cover Croatia's policy in the future. There are big doubts about GMO technology in the world. There is a certain level of skepticism, however we are also aware of the fact that in the world economy, in the world's GMO technology, it is a long-standing dominant, that the source of profit and domination of business and even politically strong world companies such as Paint, Du Ponto, Monsanto... Some of the companies present with their products and on the Croatian market so with all due respect to my colleague, Cobankovic, I am personally a little skeptical as we are of a free country. I'm not sure, you wouldn't exactly put your hand in the fire for that thing. How interesting this area is, in fact, and how much doubt and caution is caused by the fact that the number of said regulations cover this area of traceability, control, traffic, use of GMO products. In the EU itself, and when you take these materials and start printing them, then you realize that it is a fairly comprehensive set of real rules that enters into every possible detail and thus not thinking a little bit about the substance of the matter that is being spoken of, you might even suspect that it is a matter of perseverance. But be careful when this question is never enough. The HNS of course does not approach this problem conservatively or with prejudices but we appreciate the fact that much of the world's science that deals with genetics and biology is very skeptical and does not express certain caution. For this reason, we in HNS support the takeover of this detailed legal matter but we also point out and apostrophe to the need for the Croatian policy, in particular, of the ministry that is proposing this law, but also of the Ministry of Agriculture in implementing its policy in the future, to be very careful, very consistent in applying the rules, and to be responsible for this problem by keeping up with the attitude towards GMOs, GM products, GMO technology in the future to have world science. In any case, the fact that we are harmonising the legal property of the EU or Croatian legislation with the acquis with this proposal and that we are creating a formal legal framework to apply this part of the norm in the area of the Republic of Croatia, we at the HNS support this bill. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30911	Thank you very much. Seven lines have been reported to your exposure, so we'll do it in a row. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30912	Dear President of the Parliament, dear colleague. I totally agree with what you said and what you warned me about. The first thing you've warned about is the responsibility of politics to GMO food. It is absolutely certain that there is a dominant GMO policy in the world and I doubt how clean we are at all, although they say that there is almost no GMO food in Croatia. How much about GMO food do we know? How much do we know about GMO food producers? Or those who are extremely strong in the world care that we don't know anything about it. How many Croatian citizens have been educated about it. Let us say everything that happened in South America, for example, violence against which GMO food and GMO products are placed on the market warns that we must be very careful and what our colleague said that Croatian politics must be very responsible, very careful and that there is no party, left, right, medium, that we must all be very careful in this, and we must reach consensus. We are only lucky if big companies, global companies want to make an oasis of Croatia, have one of the clean areas of devoid of GMO food then we will certainly have little impact. Then we'll be lucky. But with smart politics and a unique position here in the Parliament, we are absolutely certain that we can resist the GMO market.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30913	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30914	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleague Vukšić, we are not indirectly GMO ground floor, directly perhaps in the application of seeds in the radiance of cultures. I think that much more can be said about this by Colonkovic as a former, recent resolution minister but indirectly not because it is a very clear fact and known that we are importers, for example, a large quantity of soybeans that serve us to feed livestock in maniculture, and also those who are well-versed know that today is on the global soy market used for these purposes by dominant technology precisely those companies that I have listed in my presentation. And this time I agree with your replica, I absolutely believe that Croatian politics must have a responsibility when it comes to the application of GMO technology that scientific circles that warn... certain scientific thesis are very reference scientific houses and scientific names and that in this area I will be free to even notice some strange policies happening beyond political matters and actions when there was resistance in certain countries. What we have to achieve at the very least is that we are very responsible for keeping the seed bank and that, at the very least in the coming years, we are leading such a policy to keep the Croatian agricultural soil or land from using what is not absolutely proven and attested. Because of the future of future generations, security, health, we have no right to play nor to be an area of experimentation. So in this case, let's be gentlemen and let the first go through the door. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30915	Thank you, too. And the next replica, the esteemed representative, Željko Reiner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30916	Your Honor, Mr. President. Well, Mr. Representative, I was encouraged by what you said about your suspicion that Croatia is not free from GMOs, it is very logical and especially now that what you are responding to the replica is something that I fully agree with. But that encouraged me to say that the possibilities of detecting GMOs are incredibly complex, complicated, require a multidisciplinary approach and very expensive. And now we come to this law and to certain provisions of that law concerning national reference laboratories, etc. which are certainly not able to absorb and analyse a larger amount of GMO products at a relatively short time, and in particular the problem of financing this. Because if we create one obligation that we ourselves will control GMO products, etc., and then knowing how things work when the budget is broken, etc. Let's deny the money for it, then it'll all be just an empty letter on paper. We will not control products on our market simply because we will not invest huge funds, and I repeat, it is necessary to invest huge funds with very complex methods to prove the existence or absence of GMOs in a product. So there's the same one of the questions about the very questions that you asked. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30917	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30918	Thank you very much, Mr. President. That is why I have also apostrophe of the need for Croatian politics to be responsible. Namely, I'm not a medical profession, but my education has brought me closer to genetics and biology quite detail, and I agree with you that for the effective control and monitoring of the tests needed to achieve certain products, it takes extremely expensive technology that these are processes, experiments and tests that cost a lot. And for these reasons, I have just pointed out once again that we at the HNS believe that due attention should be paid in this matter and in the coming years we must create assumptions about the quality and efficient work of the National Reference Laboratory for GMOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30919	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30920	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a respected colleague I belong to that large group of Croatian citizens somewhere 98% of people probably who are not exactly able to express themselves professionally about GMOs and cannot talk about it but eat daily. You said there was skepticism about GMOs. in Croats there is no skepticism towards GMOs because Croatian citizens have determined that they do not want GMOs to want food without GMOs to want a state without GMOs. So I don't see any skepticism, but I see one determination. What bothers me is, in fact, the fact that we, by this law, introduce GMOs in a rash way, and it's already been said enough here that we won't be able to control it, but we will legalize it, and without control, we won't know what's going on. We haven't had a wider discussion, and as is said here behind these few pages of the law there are hundreds and hundreds of other regulations and pages and regulations, hundreds and hundreds of unknowns. And I think it's too serious to push her this quickly even though I know the deadlines are pushing us, but I think the citizens are more important than the deadlines, that it's more important in some way, and that we still had to make a little stronger and better introduction and prepare ourselves for those European norms that apply to us. And what kind of people we are and how we're going to control it is the speech and the fact that we're from state structures very prone to accuse when something happens to a circus. First of course, we charge our producers. So this law and this regulation of the provisions to be made will in fact always go to the burden and damage of Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30921	And a reply to the replica, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30922	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Hrg, this law is by PZE so-called PZE. The law we are harmonising with the EU acquis, and it is in the context of a single process that we have all set ourselves for. So we can't just do a little bit of it, a little bit of what the people of Zagorje would say. As for the definition of Croatian citizens that they do not want a GMO free country, I am the same advocate of it personally and that is why I have apostrophe to be very careful in this area and not to be hasty and not to run first through the door. What this law puts into the system of the legal norms of the Republic of Croatia, that is, it adds new references to which we must refer when it comes to control, the traceability of the example, and everything else is just an additional effort and a step to be well normised and to create legal frameworks for the implementation of responsible smart policy. As for the future of Croatia's GMO entry or the fact that it is already today, I repeat whether it is already present in Croatia today is a topic for a more detailed debate for which we need to prepare ourselves for a little more quality. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30923	The fourth replica and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30924	Well, here you are, Mr. Baranović and predecessor Coleman, in fact, your two pretty much thought solid thesis and shared what most of us thinks: one, that we are really depressed by this framework of European legislation and that in these frameworks of these various regulations we will have to clearly look for the best modes in the future to protect our interests as much as possible. And on the other hand, the fact is, as far as GMOs are concerned, that all of us as humans, I think we see what one mold, what kind of panic one mold, one aflotoxin creates in the consumer when it comes to milk. And what our people and we as consumers can think about when it comes to GMOs and what they will do through the food that we bring in not only to us but also to our children, our environment where we live, and the space in which we live, and how harmful it will actually be to the time that comes to people and to their lives from such a kind of food that obviously inevitably knocks on our doors too. But when it comes to this European legislation, there is also this space, and I think that the applicant must find a little more effort to find better mechanisms for protecting consumers under these regulations. So, for example, our proposer here is calling for Regulation 1830/2003 on the labelling of GMO products, but this regulation did not prohibit that product being clearly marked on packaging, for example. We're just taking over that regulation, but it doesn't reduce how we, for example, label the packaging of GMO products. We, as a representative club, will take advantage of the opportunity to propose an additional example of the labelling of this packaging which does not defend this regulation either, which the legislator did not propose. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30925	Thank you, too. Do you have a reply to the replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30926	Thank you very much. My colleague, in my presentation, I said because it is very careful to go out with facts, so there is a certain level of skepticism in world scientific circles, and in fact, the world science that deals with genetics is divided into two sexes. One is an advocacy of GMOs, the other is an opponent who expresses reserves, thereby presenting certain scientific hypotheses. Caution works, without prejudgeing which side is right, caution is why I have expressed my views on my own, and also on behalf of the CNS when it comes to GMO technology. Otherwise, I am the advocate that we have a very rigorous system and that we control the quality of food that is not only produced but also especially those that are imported into the Republic of Croatia and in that part can absolutely agree with you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30927	Next replica and respected representative Frano Matušić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30928	Thank you, Mr. President. The debate so far has shown that a broad debate on the quality of food we consume is needed and that we need to talk about it in the Croatian Parliament in the way we have opened this topic today about GMOs in order to comply with European Union regulations. I think that the European Union regulations will only help us to meet certain standards that are quite certainly higher than the standards in the Republic of Croatia today. Why am I saying that? I don't just share the skepticism with my colleague Baranovic, but I think that in Croatia, too, there is food for GMOs, therefore genetically modified organisms, and in this sense I'm going to say one example. We all know down in Dalmatia there's a kind of vine you shouldn't water, whose grapes you can consume without any consequences, but you can't make wine, or you can't make wine because you've got pure poison. What kind of line is it then? Of course, it's a GMO that can be consumed as food but can't be produced wine. Therefore, it is clear that these products are already present on our market. What we lack is control, control of the quality of food that counterparts Reiner spoke of in his replica, which is certainly expensive, which requires generous means, but this is something that Croatian society in this area cannot move forward quality. This control is needed for the sake of all our citizens, primarily for the health of our citizens, and then for the visibility of our production. Coliga Cobankovic said that, quality food, GMO free it is an absolutely good brand but we should absolutely implement it in all areas of food production and processing and this should be our strategic commitment. Only farmers and all those involved in food production can profit from that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30929	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30930	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Baranovic and I have noticed your doubt or skepticism about GMO food and in that part of it I would say that our citizens are not just skeptical, they are against, almost 90% are against it. In addition to this, it says that in time our citizens encouraged on Facebook, a group of "Stop GMOs" was founded, then the signing of a petition was launched, etc. In that sense, the counties were also manifested so free of GMO food, so here's my Koprivnica-križevnica signed in 2004 and she certainly speaks for herself enough. But it is particularly important to me what you mentioned that it is necessary to encourage the responsibility of the Ministry of Agriculture, if I have noticed correctly. Absolutely, responsibility is needed and it is necessary to ensure conditions for those who can produce quality food that we do not witness. But I also want to say that there is a need for responsibility in crisis situations such as the one that happened now with alpha toxin. And immediately in such a situation, the ministry accuses those of the weakest of our dairy, although it is very clear that there are also controls in our central milk control laboratory in Križevci. And I'm sure those controls should have been made before the milk reached the shelves. And then our neighboring state inspection tells us it's not right. Well, it's so harmful and irresponsible for milk producers that there's really no more to add. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30931	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30932	Thank you very much, dear President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. You have expressed a lot of skepticism about how to implement current laws and I would say a lot of skepticism whether Croatia's GMO is free. And it is difficult to say that Croatia is fully GO free, but it is in accordance with the applicable laws that I must say very conservatively. And this part, these amendments and additions are part of the European legislation, which is relative to the conditionality of the American or similar very conservative towards GMOs. But he said I'd be more liberal than our current law that we had since 2005 and 2009. And I said in my debate that we must follow, we must align, but at the same time it must be the recognizability of ours I would say brand, food, that Croatia be free of GMOs. That's the point. We do not always have to be up to the law or through the law, and in order not to be through the law, it is necessary to have adequate institutions that can carry out certain analyses and checks. Yes, in 2005, by checking the corn seeds that we carried out when we had the opportunity to determine that a certain type of determined hybrid, a particular producer has a slightly greater participation of GMOs in its composition than is permitted. And then what did we do? Without thinking, we went into destroying all these surfaces, and it was about 6000 ha not small surfaces, but it was one clear indicator of what you were talking about, probably to make a greater profit, which they had defined. He made it clear to them that they would not get away with it in Croatia. And so it's similar to someone else. You are, someone mentioned soy, yes. The problem of GMO soy in the food is not only fish, but a bigger problem in pig farming, but also One good control of Croatia did not happen to be imported GMO soybean. [[Leko: Thank you very much. Time's up.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30933	Replicate reply, respected representative Petar Baranovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30934	The answer will be very brief, Mr. President. Colonkovic, do you really believe you've destroyed everything that's gone in? You really believe that? Because it was a seed of one of the companies that I mentioned in my presentation, and the fact is that in other countries, very powerful countries have systematically fought against entry, that they have systematically fought for a GMO free country and that they have lost that battle. That is why I have apostrophe of the need to be careful and to persecute Croatia's policy in the future and now behave responsibly. The fact is that GMO seeds have come to Croatian fields and that fact is enough to guide us to stay awake. And as for your finding that the interest of Croatia is a brand of healthy food of indigenous agricultural products, I absolutely agree. I personally prefer only what is, not only what is sown in Croatian fields, but what is produced in Croatian factories. Milky chocolate hasn't come into my house in ten years. So let's not doubt the good intentions, but let's start very systematically, very systematically take care of such serious topics that go into the back door in the light of a very short law, so when you look at the first one, it seems like a purely technical correction but actually behind that tree is a big forest. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30935	Thank you, too. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is now up to the Club of Representatives of the Independent List and Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30936	Your Honor, Mr. President, Minister, Deputy Minister. Here we are today actually talking about this point 5 on the final proposal of the Law on materials and articles that come in direct contact with food. Then, we're talking about this proposal for the Detergent Act. Come on, nobody said anything about that. We're talking, so 5 dots is actually 4 pardons combined on imports, exporting dangerous chemicals and on this Law on genetically modified organisms. So I'll just say two, three sentences first when it comes to Croatian exports. With the city of Zagreb, only 12 more Croatian cities manage to export more than a billion kuna. According to data provided by the State Statistics Office after Zagreb Kutina, it broke out to the second largest exporters last year. The Zagreb economy has spread 23.7 billion kuna worth of goods across the border, a third of total exports of 72.7 billion kuna. The angle that has been making stable exports for years and dominated by the participation of Petrokemia has exported as much as 2.8 billion kunas last year. The list of exporting cities was broken last year, and one of the leading Split fell off this list, for example. Split's exports dropped by more than 70% last year, from 2.4 billion to 710 million kuna. In 2008, for example, Split exported more than 3 billion kuna. Clearly, this should be accompanied by a break or break of shipbuilding. Sibenik is the third city in export height, and last year it improved by 27% to more than 1.8 billion kuna. The Varazdins exported slightly more than the previous year, a billion 770 million kunas while Rijeka had a 43% incursion and reached a billion and 720 million kuna. The decline is similar to Pula, even bigger, whose export result fell from as much as 3.3 billion kuna in 2011 to a billion 590 million kuna. Pula is so small in front of Karlovac, who, year after year, is export-enhancing, primarily by the arms industry. But let me go back to these regulations, to this Food Act, to call it that. We have 10 regulations here, I'm not going to quote and read them now, but what I want to draw attention to are these breaking provisions of Article 8 of the bill, so on materials and objects that come into direct contact with food. This is where 50 to 100 thousand kuna fines are scheduled. Someone's gonna say those sentences are small, someone's gonna say they're just big. I'm saying there's no serious producer today, say, milk that, for example. Not in Istria, but it doesn't open up a mini-cheese or a mini-milkman anywhere. These people are in a catastrophic material situation, they have to spend, they have to invest if they really want something, and it might be good to expand that range through amendments. That maybe the minimum penalty is 10 grand, not 50 grand, and then up to 100,000 kuna. As far as GMOs are concerned, my predecessors have said more or less everything. There we all believe in the same positions. I won't talk too much about it either. And I also doubt that in due course we will have no problems with GMOs. Maybe not today, maybe not tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow, maybe we will, and so I agree with all the MPs that it's good, under quotes like the people would say, "Blow in cold." Clearly not GMOs and dots. What should also be said when it comes to this agriculture, I clearly have absolute sympathy for the reality of Croatian peasants or Croatian villages. They are also gathering on Croatian roads these days. They don't need an appointment, either they're doing it too soon or they're doing it too soon when it's too cold. Normally, I don't invite anyone to do this, but I call for a conversation. And it is true that more or less everyone here said that Croatia imports not small quantities of milk, that our farmer is often being blackmailed by the importers of that milk, that they sell us milk which they later withdraw from the shelves. Whether it's domestic, whether it's imported I don't know, I'm not getting into it right now, but the point should be that our peasant can live off his work, that he can live on his work and his family or survive and that the community can benefit from it. And as I said yesterday, no one should envy a peasant if he drives a 300 thousand kuna tractor because without that tractor he can't work, he's kind of a small entrepreneur, a craftsman I don't know in his own form. And that's why it should also be remembered that basically these people have 300 and I don't know thousands or more thousand kuna loans. Finally, everything is mortgaged, from inherited property to this machine, and it should be kept in mind. I agree that there are farmers who today live on average for Croatian occasions, but mostly our peasants work on average to live below average. And so surely both the country and the community and the Parliament above all, the ministry should help them. Our peasant must have always been real. Why was he real? He was hard on the ground because he's closest to the ground. With the government, I say he can handle himself, with lobbys, with capital very, very hard and he usually loses that battle. I agree, nothing easier in this country is a worker in one PURIS who is silent in one GREDELJ who is jobless, in small crafts etc., etc. But when it comes to this food, when it comes to this milk, some MILKA chocolates are now mentioned, I don't know what's wrong with them, we all have the right first of all to the truth, but I'm afraid eventually this hysteria will cost our peasants the most. What should also be mentioned how institutions operate in the food safety control system. Today, a good, excellent article was published in Business.hr and then mentioned among other things by calling for this affair which broke out when the Bosnian-Herzegovic border inspection found in Dukatov, Vindi's milk shipments of the ingredients and then reading among other things how the inspection works or how it works in Croatia. The fact is that, for the control of food imports at border crossings and traffic in trade chains, as many as 4 inspections have been deployed in three ministries and, to the very least, this leads to doubts that these services can perform coordinatedly. The veterinary inspection assesses products of animal origin while the phytosanitary unit checks the marketing standards for fresh fruit, vegetables and the two are related to the Ministry of Agriculture. Sanitary inspection controls products of plant origin, but its queen is in the Ministry of Health, and economic inspectors from the State Inspectorate in charge of food control in retail are members of the Ministry of Economy. In addition, several other state institutions such as the Food Agency, the Veterinary Institute, the Food Control Centre and the Toxicology Institute are involved. So a lot of inspections, a lot of surveillance, but a lot of them are simply distributed to different ministries, and the question is how effective it is. Economic inspectors of the State Inspectorate, I said control of this quality of food, normally for humans, for animals, in retail regardless of the country of origin. During 2012, a total of 11233 official controls were carried out, establishing 1150 violations of the law, which resulted in 110 written solutions on the ban on placing on the market of ill-labelled food, i.e. food that did not meet the prescribed quality requirements and 387 oral solutions temporarily prohibiting the marketing of the product and the value of the products placed outside the market was, you will not believe only 309 thousand kuna, 577, 309, 577 kuna. Eight hundred and twenty-three defendants have also been brought to the courts of the jurisdiction of the Criminal Courts, and it has been filed, or has been, and has been, pardoned, 17 infringements of the order of 42 400 kuna. There is one punishment greater than these 42,000 kunas. The border inspection of the health ministry last year banned 60 shipments of food and 4 were destroyed. On the internal market, it did not allow the sale of 9 700 products due to illicit food supplements, seized and destroyed 50 513 pieces of products for illegal preservatives, foods in fresh pastries. And through the rapid alarm system, 488 kilograms of tuna cans, 101kg of tea roots, and 184 pieces of some children's spoons were destroyed. What is interesting, however, in 2011, we had 28 610 controls, and in 2012, only 11 233 controls will say almost 1 to 3, or 40% compared to one year earlier. Clearly, we all advocate that these controls be more frequent, that they be more efficient, that citizens are clearly safer. When we talk about this agriculture, I won't talk about it anymore, I won't talk about GMOs, I'll tell you just one detail that we read today, that tax debtors in the country will no longer be paid for incentives until they settle their obligations. Before, this law, so yesterday we talked about incentives, incentives in agriculture, industry is about nine billion kunas, half a circus. It is almost 8% of the Croatian budget and we see how we're doing, we're not doing well with these burdens, but regardless of all of this, we have to try to help this Croatian peasant in some way, and I want to believe, although many doubt that the next day when Croatia 1. 7. join the EU, many doubt it, make it easier for him. But no matter what, we need to help anyway.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30937	Thank you very much. Replications have been reported to your presentation. We go in line, first replica and respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30938	E, Mr. Mayor, I agree that we need the help of the Croatian peasant but also that Mr. Representative should not have raised his hand in, last year for that reduction of a billion and a half, almost a billion and a half kuna in the agriculture programme. In this way, Croatia's agriculture, a Croatian peasant, was brought into an extremely difficult situation. We're importing about $2.2 billion of food today, and we're importing things. And we have no control whatsoever, but no control over that import. Unfortunately, we have also come to the conclusion that most of Croatia's citizens, given the receipts or non-receivements they have, would not even object to eating that forbidden tuna, withdrawn from certain shopping centres, to eat and GMO products because the policy that has brought most of these citizens literally threw them on their knees. Unfortunately, so is Slavonia. So here I invite you to go to any store in the Republic of Croatia, any shopping mall, as representatives we all go to those malls and we'll see what these shelves are filled with. A Dalmatian fig produced in Serbia or packed in Serbia, a Pag lamb imports from Romania. What kind of pork do we eat, what kind of veal, what kind of beef and what are the import lobbys finally importing? I won't mention leaves and bananas. We import what should be produced, organically in the Republic of Croatia, and that's a fact.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30939	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30940	I happen to have these budget expenditures and the comparison of January 2012 with 2011, the total revenues are slightly lower, 1.7%, the profit tax is 3.2% higher but I will say that in this month, compared to January last year, subsidies paid both in industry and farmers are 57.2% higher. Otherwise, when we talk about these subsidies, they reach an annual level, or we discussed 9 billion kuna yesterday. 50% of these amounts go for agriculture, fishing, 50% go for industry. I was surprised that in the distribution of these incentives, for example, Slavonia was represented in some way while because of shipbuilding it may be above average represented coastal expressions of Croatia due to the problems that these economic operators have. However, regardless of all these subsidies should be maintained, they should be distributed fairly without the same peasant we have left simply cannot survive as the question of what will happen to Croatian shipbuilding the next day when they are gone. And I agree, I agree absolutely with all these remarks when it comes to our imports. I also cannot understand that on the shelves of a native, golden Slavonia, I don't know what kind of products from imports come in when this same Slavonia once fed 20 million or more inhabitants. There should clearly be a little more hearing but so soon with that import lobby it will hardly change things overnight. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30941	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30942	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Caine, here we spoke since the debate was united and then this first point was the proposal of the law on materials and objects that come in direct contact with food and in connection with what counterpart Vinkovic had previously said. So it is not a problem in Croatia in packaging, in what comes into contact with food, it is a problem in what is in the packaging. It's a hunger outside, and on the inside, it's just a misery. It should not be hidden from the fact that today Croatian citizens are feeding on ordinary garbage from imports. We export healthy food and import food at the very least of questionable quality. Today, foreign chain shelves in the Republic of Croatia that have flooded Croatia have become containers, junk of food that do not want to place to their citizens, but they place it here in Croatia, our citizens. It is defeating, it is an almost incredible fact that all Croatian authorities have since the existence of the Croatian state allowed us today to have the fact that we are importing 40-45% of food and that the average of imported food in the Member States is around 8%. The issue of own food production is one of the elements of the sovereignty of each country, and as each EU Member State struggles to have the largest share of its own food production, we allow us to become addicts and slaves of food imported from other countries.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30943	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30944	Yeah, I agree with Mr. Buric when he says it's not the packaging problem, it's what's in that packaging. I'd say the food that's on our shelves even if it's from imports is usually garbage. I don't dare say so bravely, but good. We are in some way and expensive why, our possessions are small, the kuna someone will say under quotes overrated although I constantly argue, today correcting the course would be simply subversive behavior by the survival of the national economy and the substrate of our citizenship, perhaps even small subsidies, and where the biggest problem is that. First of all, in our standard. Our citizens are simply no longer able to buy quality food and that is something we all need to take care of together or worry about. As a rule, people with their 2,000 kuna pensions with an average salary of 4, 5 or 5 and a half thousand kuna with two children, where his wife does not work or reverse the question of what opportunities they are simply exposed to. I see in that the same problem why our people buy what's cheapest and then logically and what's probably the worst and that usually comes across our border.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30945	Next replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30946	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, it's no wonder we were getting humanitarian aid back in the day, so under the company, we were eating some whiskey food without a sticker, without a label. You know that well. You were also at war. Today, the problem is that, in addition to all those of you who have counted the inspection, from veterinary to phytosanitary laboratories, border inspection, inspection by the Ministry of Economy, Food Agency, Veterinary Office and all others, we still have a failure that has recently been reflected by the BiH, their laboratory points to something in terms of quality simply not the quality of milk. So, it would be said that given the numerous laboratories a lot of the pounding child, yes, but as an example of imports of everything and everything, and what was missed was best when I once spoke in this House that we even imported radioactive pumpkin seeds from Ukraine, there was Chernobyl and that if we had a detector, everyone would light up that someone lit us up especially those who like pumpkin seeds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30947	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30948	... At least our neighbors. [[The speaker is not enabled.]] We received this message from BiH about the non-quality of milk, and now some controversy has already begun how these messages come from that country but this is less important. Perhaps we should be a little bit better organised simply when we see that our producers are the victim among other divisions of these institutions that should control food safety. So we have at the Ministry of Agriculture of Veterinary Administration, Food Safety and Phytosanitary Policy, then we have this Croatian Veterinary Institute, we have the Food Control Centre at the Food and Technology Faculty, we have the Croatian Food Agency, we have the Ministry of Health where it works for the sanitary inspection, we have the Croatian Institute for Public Health, the Croatian Institute for Toxicology and Antidoping, we have at the head of all of this we eat this State Inspectorate, and then we simply find out that in 2011, the economic inspectors carried out 28 thousand 610 controls while only 11 thousand 233 controls were processed during 2012. Perhaps if these controls were something more, perhaps we shouldn't wait for the control of BiH's milk. So the bottom line is, you're just doing what you might have done some earlier years, so whatever it costs taxpayers. Isn't that right, Mr. Cobankovich?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30949	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Petar Cobankovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30950	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your Honor, here's the time for me to fully agree with certain of your findings, and I must say that I am uneasyly surprised by the information you provided, that in 2011, there were 28 thousand inspection and control, and in 2012. 11,000 and there's also the fact that it happened to us... that's also the fact and reason why we today have inspectors from a neighboring country who, looking honestly, have a significantly lower level of legitimacy, a much lower level of equipment of the lab, and so on, they warn us and share the slaps. But what I wanted to replicate to you, I think you got some numbers mixed up. You're saying yesterday there was a report on the incentives to be mentioned in 2012 somewhere a total of 9 billion incentives... In 2011, but unfortunately I have to tell you it wasn't 50-50% at the time. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] In 2011, total incentives and subsidies amounted to cca 3 billion 720 and does not know how many million kunas, and remains in some other segments of the economy and shipbuilding, etc. What is worrying and whose consequences will be even greater imports is what is happening in 2012, and mainly in 2013. And these 3 billion and 800 incentives were reduced to 2 billion by almost a billion in 2012, and unfortunately the trend of the reduction with the draft budget continued and in 2013 we came to only 2 billion HRK 250 million for incentives and this will unfortunately negatively affect the external trade balance in food.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30951	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30952	In 2011, how much memory I am deceived by exactly 4.1 or 4.2 billion kuna incentives for agriculture and fishing. So we have to look at each other together. As long as it's gonna be this year, I don't know now. I'm not going to say now that it's been an election year, etc. Because the farmer must work and when the election year is not an election year, he must produce and simply place his goods on the market, he must live and live in the election years, and also feed his family.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30953	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30954	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's a colleague of Cain you've actually very well established that we have a powder of various laboratories that are not harmonised and then when we add another jungle of various regulations and regulations that we have and which are also not harmonised then we literally come into a mixed system that spends a lot of money and doesn't produce any results. And the main and basic goal of why I even applied for this replica is one fact, that we have here in Križevci established laboratories for analysis and cattle and meat and milk and honey, but that we have there and the facilities in which a lot of money has already been invested, that we have facilities that have now been standing for two years now 80% completed, that there is also a seat of the Agricultural Agency and that there is a taboo to be completed that centre in which a series of analysis would actually be carried out where everything would be in one place, where the costs would be reduced, free some spaces in Zagreb that are very expensive and where one system in at least one part of the food production would be done, at least in one part of the possible analysis. And another thing that's very important. If we want to do something, if we really want to help those peasants we're all talking about here and all these days, then we have to be willing to provide the possibility of these analyses, not strictly at their expense because they can't handle it, but then make a system so that they can solve these laboratory analyses and tests that we need to do in order to have clean food and so that we can, as the declarations here are already said, put on GMO food so that people can choose it and... I hope we can support that on budget rebalancing. [[You don't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30955	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30956	Somehow after 20 years I also loved Zagreb, I must admit it, but if some institutions can dislocate from the capital, then I would absolutely support it why not to the Cross Administration of this institute that you mention. As I also think, I don't know if this is going to happen and whether any government will stand behind it, that a certain maybe ministry can also... from Zagreb, whether it's agriculture, for example. The route of Osijek or tourism, the route of Opatija or someone else's town or some other ministry. I don't know if that's ever going to happen, but if it were up to me, I think it might be worth thinking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30957	Thank you very much. In accordance with Article 207(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 207 of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament have expired at 10.41 hours for the application of the debate for 10 minutes per item of the agenda. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Igor Cešek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30958	Dear President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. The proposal for a law on materials and objects that come in direct contact with food with the final proposal for a law in the HDSSB assesses good and we support it. Finally, we have nothing left or left because it is in line with the acquis of the European Union. The legal right of consumers is that the food purchased by customers from the retail chain shelves is safe, and is primarily healthy for consumption. The legal regulations that we comply with those prescribed by the European Union should calm our citizens because that is all they prescribe will protect us from unwanted consequences, food poisoning, or do not give God an epidemic. Is that really how it is? In recent days, we've been bombarded with bad news about food quality. In Slavonia, people from despair are already beginning to make jokes and jokes about all the bad news, from being thrown under the beef to the composition of milk and dairy products, and this unfortunately further endangers the production of food by domestic producers who are exhausted from bureaucratic obstacles imposed on them by rigorous rules and reduce profits. It's just that there's something wrong with it, someone's cheating on it, and they're cheating on it, whether it's an unintentional mistake, an oversight or a profit. I'd say profit after all. No matter how much food is produced healthy, how much material is being packed, the economic account and the great money that lobbyists put into their pockets is important. Distrust in the system of production control of the processing and packaging of food products can have major consequences not only on trade but also on tourism, because we boast that we are a tourist country. Let us also remember that scandals like this with milk can lead to a decrease in the income of primary producers, and ultimately to an even greater growth in unemployment. Uncontrollable storage and packaging of food can have expensive consequences and reduce the confidence of both domestic and foreign consumers who rightly expect the food to be safe and quality. International food trade is growing year by year, food habits are exchanged as well as production, preparation and distribution of food. A thorough and effective control of the packaging of food products is, in fact, necessary to avoid negative effects on human health and to minimise the consequences of food diseases and food failure. All participants in the field-to-table chain, meaning from farmers, producers and processors, persons in contact with food and ultimately consumers, are responsible for the safety and quality of food we consume. I personally am not concerned about domestic food and packaging because unfortunately we do not produce enough for our own purposes, so I believe that the system of control of our domestic food is working solidly, while our shares in this segment are low. But what interests me most is imports and how to protect citizens from products harmful to human health. We are aware that China is the largest exporter of almost all products, clothing, phones, toys, and lately food. So recently, in the European market, pasta has appeared polluted with pea worms painted in green, which loses color during cooking. Such products are very easy to enter the non-European market through the Hamburg port because the inspection simply fails to examine and analyse each consignment. The European Union annually imports dishes and kitchen utensils worth 730m euros from China where a large share of the plastic kitchen utensils subject to this law are also represented. The proposed law on materials and objects that come in direct contact with food is good. It defines the tasks of the Ministry of Health as the competent authority for the implementation of the regulations in the law. It is prescribed that entities in the business of materials and articles in contact with food are obliged to declare the activity of imports, production, processing and placing on the market of materials and articles intended for direct contact with food. It is also prescribed that controls are carried out by sanitary inspectors and their powers to carry out official controls in the control of the implementation of those Regulations are also defined and the powers of customs administrations are established in the exercise of customs controls. As I have already said, we at the HDSSB club support the adoption of this law but we are bothered by the usual practice of this government in the adoption of laws, or their entry into force. Thus, this proposal states that the law enters into force on the date of accession to the European Union, and legal or natural persons carrying out the activity of the import, production and distribution of materials and articles intended for direct contact with food shall have a period of 6 months from the date of entry into force of the Law on the prescribed form, their activity shall be declared to the Ministry of Health. We're coming up with certain illogicalities. Therefore, the law that cares about human health allows importers to prepare or better exploit themselves within six months of the entry into force of this law in order to import non-quality but cheap goods and sell it to us at several times the purchase price. On the other hand, let's remember the VAT Act with which we abolished the VAT zero rate on bread and raised it to 5%. And this law applies on the day of the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU, but not to us as the right of the state that functions unconditionally raises VAT on bread from 1 January 2013. So 6 months before the entry of the Republic of Croatia into the EU. The little man, playing God, imagined that without any consequence, he could change the nature that actually offers answers and solutions to all our concerns and questions. We witness almost daily the side effects of trying to change nature. Only one tiny oversight or mistake of science that creates the fate of humanity can irretrievably trigger a whole series of changes that can bring down anything and good and bad or that I can be as mild as I can do more harm than good. Genetically modified organisms are organisms whose genetic material has been altered using genetic engineering techniques. Science can and has answered the question whether GMO food is safe, but these answers are not what industry and media are telling us each for their own interests. That reason is simple. According to my assessment, the industry listened to the real results of the science of GMO seeds would never be planted, and from that same seed-produced food would be banned worldwide. Unfortunately, the world's major lobbys controlled by the largest companies dealing with genetic engineering and rich in favour of the claim that thanks to precisely the production of GMOs, food will never be hungry. No one can do anything to companies like that today. Let's just think of a large American company that produces GMO seeds of soy and corn, of course, if you don't use plant protection products precisely from that manufacturer, you can't protect soybeans or corn because you'll wind up with corn plants. Does the Croatian people really not have the right to know and be informed about what they will or should eat tomorrow? Not even the right to healthy food is a fundamental human right, and who is represented and in whose interest is the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Agricultural production in Croatia has been deliberately and systematically destroyed for years. No one can control food prices today. Who's that good for? The well-netrated imported lobbyes that are unsuspectingly rich and rub salt on the wound so many times deceived food producers who produce fruit and vegetables on unpolluted Croatian oranics that no one will get sick from. Who among them cares about the quality of the finished product that Croatian citizens buy in trade chains or how farmers who work hard all year long will end up or sell their products for incompetence or simply coercise them and not compete on the market. Today we are also discussing the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to genetically modified organisms with a final bill, an emergency procedure. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and also provides a statement of its compliance with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. By all accounts, this law will be voted by the majority. The position of us in the HDSSB if this Act is already voted upon that it is necessary to pay particular attention to inspection supervision, and to clearly label products which consist of GMOs in order to alert the end consumer to the content of GMOs and ultimately make a decision on its purchase. So, if we could clearly indicate the harmfulness of cigarettes on his box, why don't we do it with products containing GMOs. But speaking of quality control, it's not clear to me how milk with increased alpha toxin content can end up on the shelves of the store. And so now that the topic of milk is current, I also don't understand how we can't trace the origins of that milk if we know that there are control systems such as HASAP where at all times we would know the exact traceability of the product, or so from which exactly the manufacturer has withdrawn the product. We in the HDSSB will support these laws except the proposal for a law on genetically modified organisms because we absolutely oppose GMOs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30959	Thank you very much. We have registered replicas at the point of view of the club Zoran Vinković, a respected representative. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30960	Dear counterpart Češek, you have well noticed that these laws or package of laws will be published on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU. Whether it's 1.7 or not, it's not all up to us, it's up to our Slovenian neighbours now and whether we're going to bow down to them to ratify this agreement. But at the same time, all those to whom this law applies will have six months to adapt. And the VAT and VAT increase we immediately brought to the National Journal on the day of publication, although one of the conditions of the EU that we agreed to in the negotiation process was that it would be the day of Croatia's EU entry. And you noticed another extremely good thing that among other things Croatia should be based on the development of tourism, as well as on the development of agriculture, so it is justified that our tourists, our guests eat on the Adriatic, do they eat a product from Slavonia or not only through shopping centres, but through the daily market, sell what Croatia imports? Normally there are exceptions and Croatian tourism is not like that, but it is a legitimate question. What have we done as a state for both Dalmatia and Istria and Slavonia? I'm saying nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30961	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30962	Yes, my colleague Vinkovic. I absolutely agree with you and everything you've said is true. In fact, we know very well how this government works because by introducing a 5% VAT on bread six months before it was necessary, it really shows how important it is for them to fill the state register, not for the safety of citizens. And by passing this law that should just protect Croatian citizens who will enter into the EU but the producers have 6 months, therefore still enough time to prepare, or to achieve even greater imports of perhaps illicit substances, or these materials used in food. So, with these two laws, the Government of the Republic of Croatia has given itself about a year of manoeuvre to fill the budget, on the other hand and to favour the import lobby.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30963	Second replica and respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30964	Thank you. The esteemed colleague has been here several times during the day, and here you have touched the problems of a recent unpleasant event with this milk, and then we wonder how it is possible that it was established in BiH and that our competent institutions and services have done nothing about it. Well, for the record, someone here mentioned a jungle regulation in the Republic of Croatia. I have tried to count all the regulations currently in force from the law through various regulations to those of the notices of applications received for registration of designations of origin or country of origin, etc. Do you know how many, and I'm not sure if I've listed them all, I've spent a lot of time, do you know how much in Croatia in that jungle rules regarding the quality of food for both man and animal and when it comes to GMOs, how many of these rules are in Croatia? 536, 40 laws, I've listed 40 and 486 of which regulations and 10 of these notices of accepted registration applications. So if you were Einstein, if you were wunderkind, that you were doing nothing else 72 hours a day so that those who work that day take 72 hours of those who need to control it in those forest regulations, well said the Amazon regulations in Croatia could not be met. And then it's no wonder that what happened to us is that we get a lesson and a pack from neighbouring BiH, and we give that kind of money to the agencies, for the people who work in them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30965	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30966	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Buric also agrees with your findings, but what I really don't understand, this milk case, so every big company that takes care of itself and takes care of safety has and introduced the HASAP system, i.e. an analysis of critical control points and ISO standards. So there is a very demanding procedure where you must know exactly and determine the traceability of a particular product. So, if milk is infected, i.e. with an increase in aflat-toxin content, it comes to the Croatian shelves that same manufacturer, i.e. the processor, needs to know if it's milk from a farm somewhere in Slavonia, from a farm somewhere in Križevci or somewhere from a farm in Poland. And he has to establish that within just a few hours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30967	Thank you, too. Next replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30968	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, now that you HDSSB colleagues have mentioned yourself so nicely, allow me to join this agreement a little bit. But first, I'll say the part where I disagree with your debate with my colleague, Chesek, in which part I do not agree with your debate where you said that agricultural production has been neglected for years. It's not true, it's not true. During the term of office, Mr. Cobankovic is certainly encouraged, and this is accompanied by increased milk production, increased meat production. Now she's a neglected colleague of the Czechs and you can see which branches were burned by the production of milk without talking about meat and other things. But, of course, I agree with the part where you were talking about healthy food, where it is said that healthy food is needed but, of course, adequate packaging. Because in that part, there is certain to be an interaction between packaging and food, most of which is placed on plastics as well as a large number of regulations in that part, in this sense it speaks. But it's especially this moment where you're talking about this incident involving alpha-toxin in milk. And that part showed what our milkers warned about last February, but in February when they warned that a certain bias of the processing industry was being done. And it's also making a rule about the milk package that says something in that sense. Imagine in that Regulation on the milk package it says that the buyer manufacturer does not have to make an offer. Well, don't you think that says that enough for yourself? And now under these circumstances, the other state's inspection says it's not right, and then the blame is on the weakest one, the manufacturer. That's the truth that tells a lot of things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30969	Thank you, too. And a reply to the replica, the esteemed representative Igor Chešek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30970	My dear colleague, you are such a very nice man and I truly enjoy your replicas and that for the first time I would not have attended the Assembly sessions, perhaps even placed you in the ranks of the HDZ. But please let me tell you another thing, so you've been in power for a while, you've had the Minister of Agriculture, so much care about agriculture and the development of Slavonia and Baranja you've shown, you know how? By organising the World Eagle Championship in Biograd at sea, not in Slavonia and Baranja proves enough about your concern.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30971	Thank you very much. Now, I would like to take advantage of the right of the President of the Parliament, so I would say this: the record of the respected representative of Stjepan Milinkovic, if you had mentioned yourself in the club in front of the Croatian public is also valid for a colleague of Stjepan Milinkovic, he performed on behalf of the club, so his colleague Petar Cobankovic performed, so he had a replica. By doing so, we are all sort of discrediting the meaning of the replica in the Croatian Parliament because the replica is not, it is not, you will work according to yourself, I am obliged for the public to say, you will bear responsibility for your replica and I will say this, the meaning of the replica is not strengthening the position of the club where you act and work, but it is the purpose of replicating, objecting, dispute and continue because the public expects it from you. We are going to the fourth replica and respected representative Petar Čobanković.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30972	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. So let me say that I fully agree with the good part of your debate, and I agree on the illogicalness of an extension of 6 months to pass this law, and at the same time a few weeks ago we passed a VAT law that immediately began to apply where a 5% rate was introduced for food, meaning bread and milk. What I'd still like to say and what I agree with is that it's also about this alphaoxin in milk. It's illogical, and I'm holding that in less than 2, within 2 hours when you read the lot on the box by traceability, by, determine where the milk came from. It's a little illogical for me, too, for the ministry to go out with such flat-rate grades and say that milk is from Croatian farmers which I would never show up in such a way, because it can simply be determined. Now what I disagree with, you said that agriculture has been destroyed for years, so it may have been destroyed but in a way that if the incentives increase from 2003 to 2011 from a billion to a sixth to three billion and eight hundred might be one of the kinds of destruction. Or if capital investments, investment support by capital investments from 25% increases to 40 and 50%, it may also be the destruction of agriculture. And yes, we might be able to talk about that if changes didn't happen in the meantime, and then we have this government that's in 2 years, so in 2012 and 2013, it managed to reduce those incentives. In 2012 for a billion kuna and in 2013 according to the draft budget, which is still valid for an additional billion and a half. So in 2 years, two and a half billion kunas to less farmers, than that dear friends, it's somewhere a billion dollars, between a billion and a billion kunas directly to the people of Slavonia, and Baranja and West Sreme.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30973	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica by the esteemed representative Igor Češek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30974	I agree with most of what you have stated and it is indeed true, but you must also be aware of your responsibilities, i.e. the responsibilities of your government. It's not that this government treats agriculture well, even on the contrary, absolutely degrades agricultural production, but behind your mandate was absolutely imports of food. So Croatia imports 45% of food, imports, while in the EU the percentage is 8%. What we're talking about, it destroyed Croatian agriculture.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30975	Thank you very much. We continue, we have exhausted the list of club representatives in the Croatian Parliament who have applied for a debate on this topic. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. The first in line is the honourable representative of Zlatko Komadin. He's not in the assembly, he's losing his right to discuss this matter. Next up, she's a respected representative of Mirela Holly. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30976	Thank you, Your Honor. At the very beginning of the presentation on the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on genetically modified organisms, I would like to stress that I will support the adoption of this law. This is a technical law harmonising Croatian legislation with the acquis, i.e. EU directives and the existing Croatian provisions fluctuate and adapt to the deadlines and definitions of EU provisions. Genetically modified organisms, especially food, i.e. living modified organisms created in laboratories with recombinant DNA technology around the world, cause major recommendations and conflicts and should be stressed that neither EU countries have a common position and a common policy towards genetically modified organisms. Some European countries advocate a rather liberal policy towards GMOs, as well as the release of live GMOs into the environment, such as Great Britain and Sweden. While some other European countries that have a strong agricultural tradition and food industry, such as Austria and France from new members of Poland, have a rather negative and conservative approach to GMOs and advocate a policy of restrictions and free decision on GMO bans for each individual country. Probably because of this until today, as far as I know, no consensus has been reached on this issue by the EU. It is about the European framework. When we talk about an international framework on the one hand, we have a world trade organisation of VTO that is highly prone to liberalisation of GMOs and is often accused of being advocacy to the interest of very powerful multinational companies that have patents on GMOs and which openly exert unfettered pressure on all countries that are prone to ban the release of live GMOs into the environment, accusing such countries of violating free trade rules. On the international scene, on the other hand, we have UN and UN conventions that are not very friendly with the release of live GMOs into the environment. We have a UN Convention on Biodiversity where the so-called Cartagena Protocol is adopted, which is the first internationally binding instrument to regulate cross-border transfer, export and import, transport, handling and use of living modified organisms that can have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biodiversity, also taking into account the dangers of human health. The Cartagena Protocol introduced an international political context to the principle of caution against GMOs until it is proven that such organisms have no negative effect on biodiversity which is the world's greatest wealth. It is of great importance that developing countries have been given the opportunity to reject, on a legal basis, the imports of live modified organisms into their territory, on the basis of the above principle of precautionaryness and in situations of very conflicting opinions and data on their harmfulness. It is important to point out that certain provisions, information from the content of the Protocol, relate to products or products of living modified organisms rather than exclusively to living modified organisms. When we talk about the attitudes of the local public, the Croatian public is unequivocally against genetically modified organisms, and when researching the public is changed in very high procedures, as much as 99% of the population is opposed to food that contains living modified organisms, or GMOs, and especially the release of living modified organisms into the environment. Politics in Croatia seem to have followed that public attitude, so far, all ruling elites have shown considerable caution to the GMOs but have somewhat caved in under the pressures of the world trade organisation. And it is a good thing that, if not because of responsibility for public interest and sustainable development, it is based on the preservation of the environment and nature of biodiversity in particular, and because of political pragmaticism and pragmatism. In recent years, an increasing number of scientific research and even those scientists who have previously been prone to the release of living modified organisms into the environment have shown that it is good to use the precautionary principle towards GMOs because these studies point to health risks from the consumption of food containing GMOs, so perhaps the Ministry of Health should reconsider the decisions that appear on the lists of so-called. The new food to which the precautionary principle should apply needs GMO food, not batatas, stevia, and is grown recently by negative ones, I would say justifiably negative reactions to the public because batatas, stevias and rabbits are certainly not new food and new foods because they have been used and consumed for several thousand years outside of Europe's culture with great satisfaction. What we have to worry about is the chills and the uncontrolled spread of monocultures that are the greatest threat to the biodiversity of the world. And GMO crops and technology terminator planted in them with the aim of protecting patents of owners, multinational companies and large capital are the most aggressive monoculture and therefore Croatia must resist the pressures that advocate Croatian liberalisation towards GMOs. And Croatia has partly liberalised its policy towards GMOs with public attitudes and even the declared policies of the ruling elites over the past ten years. Namely from a state-owned company against GMOs directed by the Ministry of Environmental Protection and Spatial Arrangements of the period of Prime Minister Racan's coalition, a company that announced the adoption of a special law that would be completely prohibited by the GMOs in Croatia through the Nature Protection Act, which formally left very little opportunity for GMOs to sow. Today we have the Law on genetically modified organisms which has been proposed in a rather strict procedure to approve the shine of GMOs under the Nature Protection Act, liberalised and not transparently placed in the field of public debate and accountability. But that's a line we can't go beyond. And at the very end of the presentation, I would like to refer to Article 11 of this proposal of the law which deletes paragraphs two and three in the applicable law, and I quote: "The label must clearly indicate the genetically modified organism or contain a sentence of this product containing genetically modified organisms, i.e. this product originates from genetically modified organisms in accordance with the provisions of specific rules for the designation of GMOs. For products where accidental or technologically inevitable traces of authorised GMOs cannot be excluded, the Government of the Republic of Croatia will, on a proposal from the competent authority, establish a level below which these products do not have to be marked." The end of the quote. Although the reasons for this article state that: "This article deletes the applicable provisions on the designation of GMOs and the power of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the issues of the identification of GMOs by a regulation. Exceptions from labelling taking into account that from the date of accession of the EU Republic of Croatia, Regulation 1830/2003 will apply directly in that area. On 22 September 2003, the European Parliament and the Council on the traceability of the designation of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of food and feed produced from genetically modified organisms supplementing Directive 2001/18 EC. The end of the quote. I hope that the government will soon release in the procedure a law adopting the said regulation and that the authorities will welcome this new situation fully prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30977	Thank you very much. We have five replicas on your exhibit. My colleague, Zoran Vinkovic, first.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30978	Here's an esteemed colleague, agreeing with most of what you've said, having in mind and denied the experience of larger countries with GMOs, wonders that you haven't fallen to this particular disproportionate effect of this law on the day of Croatia's entry into the EU and adaptation, practically another 6 months of all those to which this law applies. I claim that this is exactly the time of adjustment, and given what my colleague Buric said, jugglupropis, instructions, the rules that time will be far greater and that many as today will find not only holes but pits in all those forest regulations. So we're going to have an even bigger wild west that applies to this problem. And it could happen to us, we talked here in the hallway, it might happen to us that like after Chernobyl when in Slavonia salad was like a watermelon, we might start now in Croatia after these nuclear attempts in Korea to import instead of China from Pyongyang Yang and garlic and salad and everything else that we import from China. ...after calming the situation after certain Security Council resolutions and the UN. At the same time, if we look at that exceptional show on HTV, one of the rare "Earth of the Earth" then we see that our producers are devoting everything that is organically produced and cannot find a market for Croatian products in Croatia at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30979	Thank you very much. The answer to Mirel Holy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30980	I don't really agree with you because already in Croatia we have competent institutions and authorised laboratories for certain procedures related to GMOs and the detection of GMOs in food. What our laboratories are unable to explore sends for sampling outside Croatia and this is not only the case in Croatia but also in some other countries. When we talk about organic agriculture, we can agree partly with you, and I think that the result of such a situation in Croatian agriculture is that we do not implement or have a logically good strategy for the development of agriculture in which organic agriculture would also be a very important segment, and during today's debate a lot of agriculture subsidies and how they are reduced and so on. I don't think it's that much of a subsidy problem, I think the problem is in the control of subsidies, that is, when certain money is given to produce better and more food to do so. Because unfortunately, we have a situation where agricultural subsidies grew from year to year, and we have produced less and less food, and unfortunately that food was no higher quality. And I think that Croatia should go in the direction of production and higher quantities of food, but that food has added value, and that means that we have a larger share of integrated agriculture and organic or organic agriculture. But this will not happen overnight, perhaps we should consider also that subsidies are paid on the basis of the food produced and the quality of that food, and not on the basis of hectares.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30981	Next replica, Vice President Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30982	Dear Madam Vice-President, so here is the agreement with most of what the debate said to the distinguished representative Holly, she also mentioned the relationship between the EU and the World Trade Organisation. Well, maybe we should just remind ourselves, so between 1998. In 2003, the EU completely banned GMO food imports. However, it was then that the WTO began to argue that the EU does not have the right to ban it on its market and under the pressure of the WTO, in fact, the EU had to restore and abolish that general ban, i.e. to introduce a practice of controlling certain GMO products according to a particular case, that is, as defined in the European legislation case by case aproach. After assessing the individual product, it is then decided whether it is harmful to the health of the consumer or not. And on the basis of this procedure which occurred in the EU under direct pressure from the WTO, 47 products seem to have been allowed to be imported into the European market, which only reflects that there was more than one consensus in the EU on non-acceptance of GMO products, i.e. food, so that under the pressure of the WTO and the relations of the United States, South America, trade relations with EU countries was somewhat retarded, but I am stressing only somewhat. I think it is very important to know the same when we are discussing how Croatia will treat GMOs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30983	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30984	You're right, I've talked about it in the debate, and the fact is that the WTO advocates the interests of large multinational companies that are more powerful in terms of income and money available to many countries in the world, and even the EU had to let go under the pressures of the WTO. However, I think that in the very problem of genetically modified organisms there is a need to distinguish between what is the obligation to place on the market products containing GMOs from what is the release of live GMOs into the environment. And I think it already mentions the Cartagena Protocol, which the Biosafety Protocol has provided for certain protection mechanisms for each country, with respect to this precautionary principle. And as I have already mentioned the latest research, here at the end of last year was one study conducted by a French institute that showed that products containing GMOs, it seemed to me that soya and GMO potatoes were causing cancers, i.e. malignant diseases on a sample of laboratory rats that were studied.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30985	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30986	Thank you. Dear colleagues, I mentioned in that jungle regulations and 21 regulations currently in the Republic of Croatia regarding GMOs. You mentioned the fact that a huge number of Croatian citizens oppose GMOs, but you said that this government is doing everything in its power, and I will remind you of one government regulation last March. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. This is proof that our Croatian government is already acting in a way that will be ordered by the European Commission. The problem is that the European Commission is under great pressure from international large multinational corporations, above all... which has managed to put pressure on the U.S. government to threaten all European Union members to withdraw these regulations and has withdrawn the European Commission's regulations that it cannot import and shine, therefore the seed of GMOs. And Croatia will receive a warrant from the European Commission despite all our objections and despite our rules, it will receive the European Commission's order that in the counties it has declared as GMOs of free counties it must sow GMOs and unfortunately Croatia will do so and should not close its eyes before that. Because we've always been good servants and bad masters.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30987	Thank you. Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30988	You later explained in your replica that the obligation to comply with European regulations and there was no Croatian government, regardless of whether it was left or right or centre, would not have had any great opportunities available, but I repeat again, it is not about what is most important and it is about the release of living GMOs into the environment. This is about marking or regulations relating to the marking of certain products to be placed on shelves. And yes, to tell you the truth, it is also not very nice to me, but you should bear in mind that at European Union level, a common policy towards GMOs has not yet been reached and it seems to me that it will not be so easy to achieve. But mine was an impression because I took part in a council of ministers on which it was also a point of the agenda, it is my impression that the vast majority of European states are not very prone to very large liberalisation, especially as the latest research by even those scientists who have had a very liberal approach to GMOs shows that there are great and health risks. So now we're not talking about the dangers of biodiversity and the spread of monoculture as well as the impact on human and animal health that consume such food.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30989	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30990	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues Holly, our farmers have produced and produced healthy food, unfortunately the products are getting smaller these days, and the production and increase of the amount of food healthy has certainly contributed to the support uncontested. I'm just surprised by one thing, how now you want to go back to the quantities, to support by volume. This is not clear to me at all that you are not familiar because we must follow the common agricultural policy of the European Union. That's the point of the story that's so out of production support. It's a very important moment to warn about. And all of our reforms have gone in this direction, so we should be in agreement. And the other thing, I do, and our citizens know that food is healthy, which is why this resistance is 99% of what you're talking about. Well, in that section and the scientific public you're talking about, it's certainly quite loud. In this regard, since 2000, when the first mass scientific statement against the application and spread of GMOs has been organised, then petitions so on. In accordance with this, thanks to the work of activists, we too have launched these activities, hence counties free of GMO food. Here's my County of Koprivnica-Crysing was in that part. But in Europe itself, there is a growing trend in declaring GMOs free regions, so there is an ongoing integration of GMO free regions into larger ones as well. Alpe-adria where integration is advocated by Austria, Hungary, Croatia, Slovenia and probably Italy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30991	Replication response, Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30992	Dear counterpart Milinkovic, unfortunately HDZ treats the European Union's policies as self-service, so what suits them would take little from the supermarket and what doesn't suit them would not take it. You know very well how support policy is in EU agriculture and that Croatia significantly exceeds the amount, the amount of funds if we look at the total state budget and GDP that are allowed to be allocated for agricultural support. So deny me. That was recently spoken to you in debates over state aid. And on the other hand, all of a sudden, you're defending this option related to hectares, not to the amount of food produced because you're replicating me in that context. And I would like to remind you that it is your political option in the European Parliament, i.e. the mere option, and that is why we have what we have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30993	And Josip Boric, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30994	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues, Holly, here I am replicating the part where you said that all governments so far have given in to these foreign pressures and slightly introduced GMOs and Croatia, so I wanted to mention this regulation mentioned by my colleague Buric, third month last year your government signed a regulation that almost ordered producers not to write on the declarations that the product is possible and GMOs as such. What does it look like in practice? We said 99% of people in their minds don't want GMOs as something they consider good for themselves. However, with this regulation, 99% of those people who do not want to, and do not know what they are buying and what they are eating right now are eating possible and such food, and this is the first form of the introduction of GMOs not now through production in Croatia, but through the shelves of trade chains, and then we are not surprised at all that has started to happen and these days begins with milk, so I am not saying tomorrow some other foods. That's the basic question. If we keep quiet about what we eat, then it becomes our problem. As far as production itself is concerned as cheap production in large quantities is compared with small production, but the quality of the century-old choice of the Croatian people is clear on this issue and there is not much to talk about. There is always good food and good food in Croatia. Unfortunately, I'm saying, I'm afraid this way we'll become guinea pigs for certain experiments, and then whoever survives will talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30995	The answer to Mirel Holy's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30996	So I have to deny you because it is not true that Croatian, this Croatian government introduced the GMOs to Croatia if we are already talking about allowing certain products containing GMOs to be found on the shelves of Croatian trade that happened a long time ago and in time it seems to me to be your government from 2004 to 2008. And you know very well that the WTO rules and what European directives require are such that this policy must be followed with regard to the authorisation of the import of food containing GMOs but of course with the declaration of such products. When we talk about the total production of agriculture in Croatia, we should bear in mind that we are not just some champions of organic agriculture because Croatia has less than 2% of organic farming in total, and I think that Croatian potential and I believe that everyone here in the assembly will agree with it is significantly higher and I think ad within a few years with smart policy we could get to 10%. Why has the HDZ government not done so far if it recognises healthy food production as an important strategic interest of the state and has not done so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30997	We're continuing the debate. It's my colleague Boro Grubisic's turn.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30998	So here's the trail of my discussions that accuse the former and current authorities of saying in Croatia, so here's what if HDZ acted like this and took from the EU policies what they liked, which they liked, which I would like this government to show that it does not have what it really has, and I would not like to say that word because it is not appropriate in the Croatian Parliament to say that word. But if it is already said here that regulations, directives, regulations and the World Trade Organisation and the EU must be applied, and that I should not say the pressures of multinational companies, and that word must have invited me to say just to die and nothing else. And the use of this, therefore, is not necessary for the use of GMOs and GMOs. In fact, this testifies to the fact that 6 EU countries have refused GMOs to say the directive, and now the case is in court. The United States Food and Medicinal Products Agency, or as the United States Food and Other Administration recently said, has recently announced that there is a high likelihood that the offspring of cloned animals have long been used in nutrition and that they as a Food and Medicinal Products Agency can do nothing. Most Americans eat tomatoes containing a gene or tomato, a pardoned tomatoes containing a cockroach gene. Most Americans eat corn with injected insecticide. They'd say a little bit and don't care about the meat they eat because they feed off such corn and pigs or other animals. And now that I'm talking about these organisms, here's what's probably waiting for us. The Canadian government is very close to approving the bizarre type of GM pigs for use in the diet of Canadians. This new hybrid between a pig and a mouse is called envirol of a pig. A pig that protects the environment. What's this about? Namely, this new species... were made by scientists, therefore, from Ontario to Guelph University by adding a mouse gene to reduce the amount of phosphorus in pig's feces in order not to pollute the environment. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So the Canadians will soon start eating pork with mouse genes. There are other examples. Here, it's produced in the U.S. by a cat that lights up, flirts in the dark, and they call it Mr. Green gene. So it can also serve as a night lamp, a lamp in the room if you turn off the light. And that's what it's made for. We'll have pets like that, won't we? Here, in America, they also produced a goat that produces milk that contains a protein of silk because the genes of the egg silk are inserted. What are they using these goats for and why? In fact, silk protein can then be collected in goat milk and milk to produce fibers that are more durable than any nylon or even stronger than steel according to some reports. So the goat’s milk extracts a protein that can then be used for both military and other uses. Isn't that a biological crime? GMO's biological crime, so a little if we look at the consequences of the future generation a little bit and genocide. Maybe it's a hard word, maybe it's too heavy a word, but that's right. I also forgot that in Korea, South Korea, not to the one doing atomic experiments, they produced a cat that lights red in the dark. So she's red, right? They're very interesting, they exist. Red cat, yeah. There's no such thing. So now that we have a goat spider in GMO production, we have a pig mouse and the best way to say it is in some parts of Slavonia if we in Slavonia could produce some kind of hybrid between a centipede and a pig and we would have 100 hams then. That would be best for us, such a hybrid, such a genetic engineering that was produced by cross-breeding as a colleague said by translationing a pig's gene with 100 legs, so we have 100 hams. We wouldn't have to import from Romania, Bulgaria, Denmark, etc., so we'd have a dredical prosciutto of our own. What about these four laws? Let's talk about this easier. So, the detergents that have phosphates. Clearly, the amount of phosphate should be as small as possible because of the water in which these detergents are released, and here I don't think we have anything to discuss. So that's totally acceptable. The second law refers to dangerous chemicals and imports and exports of dangerous chemicals that should be controlled by the Croatian Institute of Toxicology and Antidoping. I also don't think there's any particular objection to that law. In the proposal of the Law on materials and articles that come into direct contact with food, it is quite clear that today at the time of the great production to say sometimes there was polyvinyl or other plastics, that when you try wine from one of the words canisters of plastic and wine from a glass bottle that it was completely different taste, so noises let's say for wine, the noises of that wine. Of course, that substance releases certain chemical compounds, I wouldn't go into the details, which then affect the quality. And I think that even in this Law on materials and articles that come into direct contact with food, we can be content to say satisfied and accept it except that it is not completely clear in Article 5 of that Law, so other than that it is not clear who will actually control it. When we talk about this bill, about amendments and additions to the Law on genetically modified organisms, then simply my personal position, I believe the attitude of most Croatian citizens, the Croatian people, I think that this percentage over 90% is a stop GMO. And nothing else. There's no other conclusion. Will your government have what you don't have and say as these 6 EU countries have also put their veto on GMOs, production, imports, etc., it is obvious that most of them are actually ready for Friday to vote to adopt this. What is the reason for the creation of GMOs in the world? They say food shortages. Millions and millions of people are hungry today. That is true, it is a fact, and why is it that after all the directives are adopted and our laws have been repealed, so here in Article 19, that all the laws that Cobankovic has spoken of so far are repealed, and that all EU directives and regulations are introduced, which is why the possibility of the use of such organisms in Croatia is increased? The first thing is, really, as my colleague Holly said, there's no strategy for our agricultural production where we would just increase the production of our healthy food. And what our agriculture is, let's not say destroyed, but we already said, we were talking about gravediggers of Croatian agriculture. Secondly, it's a huge amount of imported food. He told counterpart Buric that it was up to 45% or more than two billion euros in money. And thirdly, it is the poverty of our citizens, it is poored and almost forced to buy cheap food. And that cheap food is exactly what we have tuna, I don't know what the company's name is, I'd better not name the company, there's milk and there's milk like that. When we talk about inspections and surveillance, then my colleague Cain counted more than 10...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u30999	Bring the end, fellow debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31000	Where he goes before, he'll be fine with the replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31001	It will be. Replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31002	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Grubisic, so I'm replicating the part where you said that the current government is constantly calling for bad experiences of former authorities, and it keeps repeating them or trying to make them come true because I've been listening all along, especially 8 years of their opposition as they're better, as they know, how as soon as they come, they'll turn it all around, etc. But here's the story today you're something wrong and now we're even better than that, no. These are problems for everyone because I have a feeling that then in the campaign they were either unrealistic or unprepared and the results we see, we are failed in all areas. So this story is cheaper and in larger amounts of GMO food or products is part of it, I'm saying current efforts to satisfy maybe that part of the population that's completely poored today. We think we have the cheapest food right in part of such or similar products. Who can buy that? Well, the one who doesn't have the money. How did he get to have no money? The current government's moves. We've got bigger VATs, more expensive energy, more expensive electricity, it's collected everything that could have been collected, and of course it's worth paying attention to, but on the other hand, we've got constant accusations you're guilty of, it's your fault. They recently heard that it was our fault that they brought in a bad budget and we heard it, and we warned here that they weren't doing it, because it's bad and it's going to have to be fixed quickly. These things, I say today, unfortunately the Croatian people differ and there is a clear drop in that policy that has been preparing for years to take over, but the results deny it. And we here in opposition rightly expect that power to be better, because then we'll all get better. However, the facts differ.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31003	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31004	Thank you very much. counterpart Boric, you see the HDSSB has asked for years to make known what has been negotiated and what is being negotiated with the EU. Unfortunately, we had National Council President Mrs. Pusic here, and you from the HDZ government never wanted to do that. There is one song, I would answer you about who is guilty, HDZ, SDP, in connection with the continuation of these EU peripheries and negotiations, so a Serbian writer named Branko Radcevic is in the song "When I had to die" said, "Where did I go on you?", that's how it is your HDZ and SDP policy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31005	Petar Cobankovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31006	Thank you very much, dear Vice President, Your Honor. Well, it would be very nice if what the poet said was true, "Where I left you to continue."Unfortunately, this did not happen, but the situation of such a bad situation as you're talking has worsened. And I think today in Slavonia it would be a lot easier if somewhere around 900, 800, 900 million kunas from agriculture were more of an incentive because it's something that agricultural needs to be competitive. If there is no such money, unfortunately imports will be bigger, and production will be smaller, because we can't compete with someone who has significantly more support than we have. And that's one of the first preconditions of competitiveness. Here's the thing, unfortunately, it didn't come true."and it would have been very good if this government had continued where we left off in agriculture and followed what was negotiated with them. And as for the negotiations, and the negotiations were conducted in a transparent way, and I told one of the head of the peasant associations to make a little, you know, I won't repeat it again, for the simple reason that he was involved in everything, and then he went out and said nothing about what was being negotiated. So if you were involved, and you don't know what was being negotiated then it's not my fault, then we should have chosen someone who would still have remembered something there and knew something. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31007	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31008	A colleague, Cobankovic, since you are from Ilock, and there are Srijem Karlovci Radičevići, and he was born in Slavonski Brod, so sometimes I quote him, yes. He didn't say, "Where did I get you?"but "Where did I get you to go?"and these actually continued what you did. So it would have been better if they'd changed direction for the better, because, rather than going further and further and further, our agriculture is actually going down the descending direction, you continue as you say, continuing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31009	Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31010	... [[Speaker not enabled]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31011	Well, that's the neighborhood.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31012	Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31013	Here's what we learned in this world-walking of yours. Although at one point I thought you were trying to convince some cartoon. And secondly, I'm glad that you finally returned to ours both in Slavonia and in the part where you spoke, talking about that pig production and the need not to import pork from Romania and Bulgaria. I want to add here that of course I agree in that part, but I also want to add that it is also necessary not to import milk, and that milk powder. Because there's that question that our milkman said, whether our milk industry is going to become mixed milk. And in that part of it, but unfortunately the activities of this government don't promise it because looking at, if we just look at making a rule on a milk package that says there won't be any need for a buyer's offer, that's what he says enough for himself. Well, and just this little event about this... The son in the milk also says something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It all points to the fact that this is contaminated milk from imports where adequate control is not carried out and that we have very good quality control so that in that part, I keep that the milkers are in a really unfavourable position and that they are in a difficult situation and indeed they look forward to helping them and finally understand them properly and as they deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31014	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31015	Here's fellow Milinkovic, I'll tell you, since you're replicating me and there's really no replicas of me, and you can't deny me in my debate, so here's another quote: "A hard nut of weird fruit, doesn't break it and the teeth break it!" That's what you say about cartoons. So you know how cartoons are made. So the unsolicited, uncontrollable movements agree and then quickly put into the apparatus and then turn out to be a cartoon. And as for how you supported us for this Slavonic project of the GMO of the centipede, so the crossover of the centipede and the pig, here's thank you very much for that support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31016	And Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31017	Dear fellow, so here I was first smiling when you used this one cross between a centipede and a Slavonic pig perhaps black and a god I must admit that I immediately began to think about problems. Who would they sell those hundred hams to? Who? When our shops are full of Spanish, Portuguese, I won't mention this nearer or further environment but I simply don't see the possibility and I started this story about the incompatibility of Primorska hrvatska, Istria, Dalmatia, Primorje with Slavonian production. So almost none, no Slavonic ham, no Slavonic tower and even fresh meat is impossible to find in hotels on the Adriatic. Why? This should raise the question between the former and the current government and the tourism ministry and the agriculture ministry. Why is that? And I say we'll have it very quickly and I read somewhere that the production of this Adriatic tuna has grown several times and even exports. But these tunas of the Adriatic that the Japanese pay enormously are nowhere in our shops, or even in our cans. And I'm only saying this because today she started corrosive and fast and we're doomed like many citizens to eat this poisoned tuna from Vietnam.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31018	Thank you. We opted for a market economy and you can't ask the government what's in the shelves at shops or hotels, none. Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31019	My colleague Vinkovic, apparently green and blue furrows are our unfathomable dream. So what we have already drawn from Stjepan Radic since 1905, which is unfortunately a green and blue furrow. Come on, we had to tell other people's states and other authorities but here's the thing about this country that's been around for 23 years we haven't done anything on that plan. And as for our Slavonic pig, she has a famous Croatian name for hiferics, so let me just explain a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31020	And now it's Vice President Zeljko Reiner's turn for debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31021	Madam Vice President, I've contacted my colleague Vinkovic before, I've signaled you, but here's my apology, Mr. Vice President. You probably didn't register. So I'd like to correct my colleague Grubisic, he probably made a mistake when you said that in the world today millions of people are starving, not billions. We spoke yesterday when we had a borrowing situation of over 3 billion people being undernourished and a billion and a half are hungry and thirsty in the world today, unfortunately. However, when you talked about the thesis that GMO food is, or here is the seed needed to reduce this hunger. There is this thesis that GMO seeds will be part of the fight against climate change and the need to feed all the people in the world. On the contrary, neither will GMO feed the world nor will it bring more quality crops. On the contrary. The problem is that today and when it comes to food, the rich have too much, and the poor have too little, so the Americans are fighting for obesity and the Africans are starving. So the main and biggest problem is that, it should be made clear and loud that today is the part where GMOs want to monopolize global food supply and the Monsanto multinational corporation that has a strong lobby in the U.S. government is already being managed, right through that government and wants to control, here is the pressure on the EU. Argentina was built by a great scientific laboratory at times when Argentina was in big financial trouble. Almost all of its production when it comes to its own, Argentina gave Monsanta their expensive seed and their exclusive herbicide. So it's about GMOs pushing today into the world those who want to monopolize the world's food supply. That's the main danger.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31022	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31023	My colleague Buric, my colleague Holly, was talking about this monopolies of culture exactly what you're saying. And here's to tell you that this American Food and Drug Agency has made it public that it is evident that all inspections have plenty of time in America to raid these American Amish and their production, which is completely organic and these farmers but do not have enough "time" to investigate whether cloned animals are in the food chain. So we're totally in agreement, and here you see, we're only giving examples that go in the same direction as my debate and your replicas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31024	And now here's your colleague Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31025	Dear Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. So now we're discussing genetically modified food products. And of course when we ask the question why genetically modified products were actually made, they were primarily designed to increase food production. But what does that have to do with Croatia? So in Croatia, unfortunately, there is no need for genetically modified products simply because we do not use existing resources to produce food that actually exist. These resources, of course, could be brought to a much better use, in different ways, were mentioned and the incentives as one must remind me that previous HDZ governments have only followed a common agricultural policy, but it seems to me that this is not at all the subject of today's debate, so there is little point in talking about incentives. Well, of course, we could also talk about irrigation that is far too little to be used in our agriculture. We are incomparably bad at irrigation from one Albania, for example. etc. So we actually have genetically modified cereal, for example. We don't need to sow them to increase food production because we could do it in other ways, and I think that would be much more appropriate. When issues of health problems are raised, any health risks associated with the consumption of GMOs should be made very clear that these executions are not clarified because there is, in fact, far too little serious research that could give an answer to these questions. Is GMO food lost by health or not? And if you were to ask me as a doctor and a scientist what I think about it, I could only say that you should be careful because there are studies that support this and there are studies that speak against it. The fact is that surveys that claim that GMOs are not at all fatal by health are exclusively funded by large multinational companies that produce GMOs. On the other hand, the fact is that there is one whole series of research that suggests that such food could and such products could be, for example, an allergic reaction trigger, to be the source of some new toxins, to create resistance to antibiotics, etc. There are a whole series of such studies, however, these allergens and toxins are actually not wanted and no one discovers. Most of the time, I repeat again, these research has been funded by companies that produce GM products, but also by research that they conducted most often are not completed and are sometimes not published. For example, there was a large study that looked at the effects of GM tomatoes and pointed to the damage to the digestive system, a Canadian study that also showed twice the mortality of GM-fed chickens than those that were fed to normal, but the research was interrupted, sometimes some were not published. In the beginning of ten years ago, a German survey established a higher mortality rate for cows that ate GM corn, soy allergy increased by 50% in some studies at the end of the 1990s after GM soybeans entered the British food chain. One study was mentioned in which rats were fed GM corn which had tumour and kidney and liver disease, giving these rats doses allowed by the United States of America, etc. So there are a number of serious doubts that GM products may be harmful to health but there are, of course, research that raises this question. What's quite certain is that those stories that we could hear in various media are not real, let's say that if you eat a tomato that has a fish gene that will happen to you because we eat at the end of the fish so nothing happens to us again, there's of course a jumping type of crossing horses and donkeys will give the mule, the mare and the donkey mule, but both of these animals are infertile and then prove it. However, there is objectively no evidence that this is harmful or not harmful, but a whole series of research suggests that caution should be exercised. So if you need to be careful, then why aren't we being careful? We now pass this law and it will be voted on, however, the question is raised, it is a law which was mentioned in the beginning as a technical law but although it is "technically" you see we have been discussing this law for more than three hours, we are not actually discussing the law itself, we are discussing primarily GMO food and products, and that is actually the essence of the debate. Now, if this has driven such an interest here in the Croatian Parliament, if we know that there is a great interest, fear, justified or unwarranted fear of our public, is it not perhaps good, useful and smart to open such a debate much earlier because we are now being brought into a time narrow, as usual? It's always said it's an emergency procedure, it's an emergency procedure because it's a European law, we need to urgently pass it. Why this law was not discussed 6 or 8 months ago, why we could not discuss it much more in detail, these issues, of course, remain as always without an answer. Why are we in a hurry with this law, it is not a condition for us to enter neither the European Union nor anyone will honor us if we do not bring it in this hour, absolutely not. We know that six European Union countries have said that they will not accept the European Union's recommendations and are now in court. We also know that because of the atmosphere that exists in the European Union in the 6th month will be a very important meeting at which the European Union is very likely to set itself differently than it has so far, a little bit stronger to say in relation to the pressures and most likely, that I do not prejudge things, is set up differently, much stronger towards GMOs or food. So if it's at 6 months, and we're not going in till 7:00, why are we in such a hurry? No one's making us do that. Therefore, an excuse for an emergency procedure, an excuse for European law, does not necessarily have to be applied here at all when it comes to such a sensitive subject of such wide interest. In the end, I would just like to conclude, it seems to me that there is a case here too if we could give ourselves and as a state and as this Parliament a little bit more time to think, especially when it comes to a very questionable matter, and especially when most of the debates here are about food. We know that ten years ago in the U.S., a very important report said that they had identified over 250 different diseases, new diseases caused by food. In most cases, the cause was unknown, and food-induced diseases occur in some 76 million cases annually with 325 thousand hospitalizations with thousands of deaths. The cause of over 80% of these diseases and over 65% of fatalities remained unknown, but some warned that the occurrence of these diseases coincided with the beginning of the mass production of GMO crops in 1996. Thus, at the very least, he warns us that we should simply be careful and not rush out or jump out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31026	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, a replica, but you answered twice. Here you go. ... He checked in at the beginning until fellow Reiner couldn't even say the first sentence. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31027	My apology, I thought my colleague gave the replica to me for the previous presentation, so I picked it up. Here we go. Comrade Reiner, it's not what I've listed just bizarre cases of genetic modification regarding this pig, mouse, goat, male silk, etc. You have information about this you can find on the Internet. Namely, and not only is food production increased the only reason for GMO production. Here I always listen to the voice of the people, so now I get a message on my phone so that we here in Croatia should also produce something, mainly for Slavonia, to cross the fireflies and mosquitoes. This would certainly save the cost of public lighting in Slavonia. That's one proposal from Slavonia coming through the cell phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31028	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31029	Thank you very much for your esteemed representative. Of course, I didn't think you came up with those examples, but I only said one similar illustration about how it appears in the media when it might be exaggerated in some direction and when it wants to almost lead to absurdity. But of course, the truth is very serious and it is certainly not about these things but about what we are all talking about and what we are obviously all concerned about, and the Croatian public, and that is the question of whether the state, we legislators, the law, the environment will guarantee quality and healthy food, and that is what worries us all together and Croatian citizens, and I say unrelated to these various cases that are illustrated in the media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31030	Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31031	Thank you. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, you have pointed out several times the issue of health risks and it is true that it has unfortunately started all with commercial, therefore large commercial production of GMO products since 1996 when it all started together. I've already mentioned the problem of Argentina. You were talking about some of the phenomena of new diseases in humans. Since Argentina had moved on to this mass production, and the only scientific support they had was in the so-called so-called mass production. scientific studies... so multinational corporations whose seeds and herbicides are used also appeared several, more specifically 40 new plant diseases, which then indirectly their consequences will be seen only later on in human production, but possibly also in human health. At the beginning, you also said something about the issue that GMO production is for the purpose of solving the problem of hunger and that it is not about Croatia. It concerns Croatia! As far as we are concerned, if we were to lead a smart policy, to lead a rational policy in the interests of Croatia and Croatian citizens, then we would not allow not only in these 20 years, 23 years as far as the Croatian state exists, I said we are already at 40 to 45% of food imports today. That's disastrous. A country that can export food. But we wouldn't even allow more than 20 years of an independent Croatian state to import nearly 30 billion food, billions of dollars in food. 29 billion dollars of food we imported and exported by 18 billion. So, it is also financially bad for Croatia if we know that the difference between exports and imports is one of the important components of the gross domestic product, that this negative balance is also affecting the decline of GDP, then it is clear that the issue of both GMO food and general imports and exports is of national importance to the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31032	Thank you. The answer to the replica Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31033	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Well, moving from end to end, I was just with this thesis and going, so we have enough potential in our agriculture that unfortunately we don't use from afar and we don't need any genetically modified crops or anything at all. But it's exactly what you mentioned I didn't talk about it. But the fact is that the impact on the environment of genetically modified organisms is likely to be even more destructive than a direct impact on human health. It is considered impossible to prevent the contamination of organic-biological farms with genetically modified cultures. For, of course, both the wind and the insects do their part, and it cannot be separated. So we can't cut something off and separate it. So it's something we have to face the same thing. One of the very important things is the danger of genetically modified cultures in the biodiversity of the plant and animal world, and that's another danger we don't know about as well. There is simply too little information about all of this to be really quantifiable. And that's why my appeal was cautious, to wait, not to panic on one side but not to accept it uncritically on the other. Let's wait, we see it at this hour we don't need it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31034	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31035	Dear colleague, you have mentioned several times that there is virtually no scientific evidence nor against and that in any case you should be careful. But not only are Africans hungry, those in Uganda, Somalia, hungry and Croats, those 400,000 unemployed, those 800,000 pensioners who barely survive the end. Even those workers who are in the one below average, below the average of the Republic of Croatia with the minimum wage. They're not even careful anymore. They buy the cheapest. It may not be scientific evidence, but the fact that the decay of the human body after death has slowed down several times, and that's perhaps a fact that shows in the end that throughout our entire lives we've been filling ourselves with, what we feed on. I'm saying no, it's probably not a scientific fact or evidence, and there are a number of examples I'm not going to mention this crossover of the fireflies and mosquitoes, although it would be good for all units of local self-government because electricity has accumulated several times through these measures and repressions of the Croatian government. But the fact is that all Croatian governments have brought Croatian and Croatian citizens and Croatian citizens to forced austerity measures. And every day we get thinr and thinr, and I have no one to ask. I cannot ask my wife or grandmother what we produce, what we import, how much money we give but can only ask the Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31036	The answer to the replica Željko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31037	Well, of course, no one can dispute the fact that unfortunately there are more and more poor in Croatia, that there are more and more unemployed in Croatia. That is, at least it should be a fundamental concern for all those who care about the welfare of this country whether it is or not we see the same thing every day. The fact is, however, that those who have unfortunately too should at least get a guarantee from the Croatian state that what little I can afford is healthy, and in that sense I spoke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31038	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31039	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Vice President, you said in your debate that you were surprised that the government for this law that changes the existing GMO law did not wait a little longer, did not open a wide public debate, why it did not include a professional competent public in the adoption of this Act when you said from this debate that you yourself said that it was not just a law that carried out certain technical procedures in the implementation, i.e. the use of GMOs. Yesterday, at a committee meeting, I asked the government's proposer if the Government is this Law, or the Resent Ministry of Health, whether this Law has referred to a public debate as otherwise provided for in the regulation on the inclusion of the interested public with all those laws and other acts which are related to one or another environmental protection problem. I was told that the government had indeed made that month in a way that allowed the public debate. But even if there were no interest, that except for one person who took part in this public debate, no one else was involved in this public debate, which then gave me the idea that Croatian citizens are privileged to survive independently of what food it is, whether it is organic food or whether it is food that is partly coming and as a GMO product. I also believe that given the European Commission's level at this point, it is debated to amend the directive on the introduction of GMOs into the environment that we could wait, that we should have adopted other acts that are provided and necessary for parliamentary representatives, and that the government can finally determine the amount of use or absolutely abolish the use of GMO products and the introduction of GMOs into the environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31040	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31041	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I must actually agree with you because this is about having a proper approach to public debate, not in that formal sense, of course, I believe that a public debate has been held. Someplace it came out, someone answered, most of it didn't answer, etc. The point of public debate is not to publish it somewhere, it is not that public debates about laws that dramatically affect Croatia's present last for 7 days and thus be published somewhere and someone knows about them or doesn't know about them, whether they comment or not. The point of the public debate is indeed to get an end to the many attitudes of the Croatian public of all sorts of interested parts of the public about some problem and some law. Therefore, at times it should probably go pro-actively. So ask interested groups on the one hand and on the other and then get actually all those contributions that would allow some quality regulation to finally be passed. A formalism which, unfortunately, we witness every day either because it is going through an emergency procedure or because a formal public debate is being held for 7 days and no one knows anything about it, I personally think it damages both the quality of these laws and those who bring it. Unfortunately, it's true. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31042	And Josip Boric, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31043	Thank you very much. In your debate, you have made a claim that you do not know the scientific facts, i.e. that there are no scientific facts that warn about the harmfulness of GMO products and that you cannot say whether they are harmful or not. And that's probably how it is. However, there is, in the public, a certain deviation or a consumer's view precisely from such products, and that is a fact. It wouldn't be 99% of people saying we're not for such food or for such products that they don't mind in advance. And then you gave an example of tomato. Here I personally don't know if the tomatoes we have today are daily on our menu, and otherwise it's a seasonal vegetable that you can have in the 6th, 7th, 8th month GMO product or not. Ask experts they say it is not, that it is a matter of treatment and various technologies of production while some others who are against GMOs say it is a GMO product. The fact is that the tomato we eat today is not the same taste as that seasonal, that it has different shapes, etc. But, of course, it is much cheaper at the start and can be produced in larger quantities, which already presupposes the characteristics of such a product. These are the problems as well as this fact that today, in a perfidious way, means through such a legal proposal, but also through that regulation of the 3rd month simply from the eyes of the public and the consumer, we may hide the fact that people buy and consume a GMO product every day without knowing it. That's the problem today. And when we still do that 6 months before the deadline or 7 months before we are mandatory, it is clear that this raises the question, and possibly the health of all these people who are ignoring the consumption of such products.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31044	Replication response, Zeljko Reiner.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31045	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I'd only like to explain one more time. I said there's evidence on the one hand and on the other. When there is, of course, conflicting evidence, then we cannot define ourselves for either side but simply need to be careful. That's why I've also advocated one precaution here, one restraint, and I don't see the need to stress it again, I don't see the need to rush in one direction that I want to say very clearly, nobody is even pushing us at this point. There's no reason, no need, no one will deny us anything if we're careful here. And this whole debate has been here for more than three hours now, and it's likely that a public debate has been stimulated through the media, etc. I guess for days she would be led by different attitudes again, but then the legislator could get a real insight into how the Croatian regiment views this bill as well as any other proposal. If we do this routinely, I repeat under the exception of an emergency procedure, or 7 days of debate, and it is often literally dramatic turns and things that open the incredible possibilities of abuse or good use, then it is certainly not the right way to get insight into what the Croatian people think about a particular issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31046	We're continuing the debate. A colleague, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31047	I would like to thank Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Honorable colleagues and colleagues. Over the past three hours, we have been discussing mostly, although it is four laws and their united debate, mostly discussing and discussing genetically modified organisms and amendments to that law. During this morning here I can say that the debate when it comes to GMOs goes in two directions. The first direction or the first level we are talking about is the necessity to include in Croatian legislation or to adopt a regulation on GMOs that I see at the end of the debate at the end of the debate and I hear that it was neither necessary nor necessary to introduce it by an urgent procedure, as the transitional provisions of the law itself indicate that this law will take effect on the day of Croatia's accession into full EU membership. Well then, I think that we could, even more, extend this debate or this law to a greater number of provisions of the original law itself, because I think that the debate in the Assembly is also calling for a systematic approach to this amendment of the law, and the more the EU-wide debate on the amendment of the directive on the introduction of GMOs into the environment. The second level is or the second part we as Parliament representatives practically expressed our views on the need, banning GMO products or bringing GMO cultures into the Croatian environment. The legislation itself was defined by the 2005 GMO Act which, we have already said, and it is not bad to confirm, was already at the beginning more restrictive than the EU's legislative or legal acquis in that part. This law also makes it practically impossible for GMO crops to be introduced into protected areas and national ecological networks, i.e. a network of ecological areas in the Republic of Croatia. We took a step further into this restriction in 2009 when in addition to these areas, therefore protected areas and ecological networks, we extended such a legal and legal possibility that units of local self-government and regional self-government could either declare their premises or act from their premises, or areas, free of charge. And according to this law, indeed all the counties in Croatia have declared their areas of banning GMO crops from land in the Republic of Croatia, which is practically when all counties brought it in, the entire Republic of Croatia became a GMO free zone, right. On the basis of these, such declaratives, I would say, the decision of our county assemblies is the parliamentary Committee on Environmental Protection in the last term, at the very end of the term of office, somewhere in late October, it seems to me to have made one declaration which the declaration should be an initiative for support, which all Parliaments of the Member States of the Alps-Adriatic region, although I must admit it is not clear to me what members of the Alpe-Adria region are but being referred to Slovenia, Hungary, has come to Italy and Austria to propose that their Parliaments bring a declaration that would encourage their governments to go into the process of declaring the entire Alpe-Adria region, the GMO free zone. And in these Parliaments, as far as I have the information they have welcomed this declaration, our committee, the Parliamentary Committee on Environmental and Nature Protection, and they have not done much in the sense that this area really is, this area is declared a GMO free zone, although these countries are also members of the EU who are involved in the adoption of legislation at EU level, and where, where this regulation is where and where more liberal as regards the introduction of these crops, GMO crops to the EU area in relation to our legislation, which I have said is significantly more restrictive. As we received this feedback from the Parliaments of these countries that I mentioned earlier, at the level of the Environment Protection Committee, we called a preparatory session from which we wanted to see what the position of the Croatian Government was when it came to the declaration and the indication of that declaration, these declarations that all the county and county congregations in Croatia declared their premises a GMO free zone. I must say that even at the level of the Croatian government there is no single position at this time how and in what way to be obvious under this proposal, the more the proposal is, these decisions by the County Assembly are not in line with all those considerations and I would say the EU acquis. When it comes to the possibility that in general a whole country or a whole unit of regional self-government such as the county is declared such an area. However, I say, here it was because at that meeting there were representatives of several ministries, there were different reflections. But what I think to all of us in the Parliament should be, should be as a guide and a need to adopt a national strategy for the co-existence of genetically modified crops and conventional and ecological cultivation of agricultural products, based on the Law on genetically modified organisms. So until the Ministry of Agriculture, as far as I understand from this whole debate, such a national strategy is not brought forward, it is hard for us to be able to make quality determinations towards this problem. In this context, through the current amendment to the Directive on the introduction of genetically modified products into the environment, which is currently being implemented at European Commission level in the Council for GMOs of the European Commission, it is expected that the amendment of this Regulation would allow EU Member States to prohibit the use of certain GMOs for specific areas, and thus more to prohibit the cultivation of GMOs. Therefore, I hold that through the adoption of this law by the Government, and we heard we were not obliged to pass this law today, we could bring it to the bar as I understood at the end of the entire debate, and yesterday on the board and today here. That this was not precisely defined on the day of the Republic of Croatia's accession to full EU membership. Therefore, we could wait, see which direction this directive is going in, we could have prepared a strategy to determine as a state according to GMOs, and only then go to a comprehensive amendment to this law. With this haste without a quality debate, it is true that Vice-President Reiner said the debate which is his own purpose, there is no need to carry it out either, but with the maximum involvement of the professional public in Croatia, the maximum involvement of all those participants in Croatian society that touches this issue and primarily clearly of all citizens who can then be potential consumers of such GMO products. I think that this amendment should have stopped, that this procedure should have been implemented, that the government should have been manifested through the Resorship Ministry as to whether as a state we are willing to declare a large part of the Republic of Croatia with a GMO zone and if these were only the premises of the national ecological network, whether these are just protected areas in Croatia, whether this is the whole network on that site in 2000, which includes and covers around 30% of Croatian space. I would then say, with such a national strategy made by the Government or the Resort Ministry, knowing that the European Commission would already say today, pressured by the demand of the entire EU society to limit the use of GMO products. What we heard through this morning and from colleagues Grubisic clearly that and from all others who participated in this debate it is clear that society and primarily our Croatian society should be very careful when it comes to the use of GMO products in food and also when it comes to the possibility of such GMOs being introduced into the Croatian environment. I think that this really should have been taken into account, and it seems to me that these representatives of the government have been quite relaxed all morning during the course of this debate, they could have answered some of the questions that we have heard in the debate in a way that we can really see whether this regulation that we are introducing into Croatian legislation and that part of the other directive were really bound to bring them today, and that I am just going to say that the law will enter into force in 4 months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31048	Thank you. A colleague Drazen Đurović is a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31049	Well, you, Mr. Bačić, have touched an interesting topic, I think it's not a story for the story, but we're all like people, and as citizens, we're actually concerned about the fact that we're eating everything, now we're touching GMOs, but it's a total issue of what we eat and what amounts of various substances with food we've been introducing throughout our lives and how it actually affects our long-term health and our children's health and in general to the generations that are coming because the increase in the number of allergies is immeasurably high, the increase in certain groups of cancers in the population is high, the question of how many different degenerative diseases, especially the locomotor system, which are also on a large scale, are actually due to various preservatives not only of GMOs but also preservatives and emulsors and everything else that we constantly introduce with all forms of food. And of course that the public interest and interest of all people in trying to protect themselves and to eat as much as possible, I would say as little harmful food as possible. Unfortunately, we can no longer rule out everything that we are forced to bring in with that food but try as much as possible to enable ourselves and our children and our citizens to actually eat as little harmful food as possible. Because unfortunately, we don't eat healthy food anymore. No one has touched the apples we eat that are treated 12 times a year with herbicides, pesticides, no more healthy fruit, no more healthy vegetables, no more healthy food. We live in illusions of eating it more. We haven't eaten that in many years and yet with this coming GMO that opens the door and is certainly there because we as a small state of resistance will not be able to provide unfortunately there only more damage unfortunately to our health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31050	Thank you. Replication response, Branko babice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31051	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I agree with my colleague Djurovic in everything you said. The issue of food is a very important issue, a health issue, and this should absolutely be paid attention regardless of whether it's only about organic food, whether it's about food produced in the Republic, whether it's about some import food that we've heard here we've often contained both these elements and these organisms. I must say that in the morning, I read somewhere on the portals that the veterinary inspection of the Republic of Croatia visited farms with which the premises of dairy factories produced milk found to contain alphatoxins in the neighboring BIH. But if the official confirmation of whether he really is, does that milk really contain this alphaoxin is waiting from Vienna because there is no institution in the Republic of Croatia, there is no laboratory, there is no institution that could officially confirm that what we heard in that milk alphatoxin that we in Croatia do not have such an institute, and then we do not have such a laboratory. Then what can we talk about when information comes to us from the neighbouring country and we in Croatia who produce this milk do not know whose origin we can officially confirm whether this remark is very dangerous because it contains carcinogenic matter, whether it is true or not. I think I would really say that I would derogate Croatia in this section regarding food control, food control, dairy products and everything that Croatian citizens clearly use and what they consume.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31052	Dinko Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31053	Dear colleague when you spoke of the necessity of the existence of a national strategy. This is a basic prerequisite I will remind you that Croatia of these here recently we have also discussed the Law on Agricultural Land, this new draft law and this is part of a national strategy very important, i.e. part of legislation that is unusually important for agriculture. But the problem is that in Croatia we do not have a national strategy for agricultural production. Only on this example of the Agricultural Land Act. In these twenty years, the existence of an independent and independent Croatian state has changed four times, 20 times it has never been complemented with let's say the existence of a national strategy in agriculture. The fact that you've changed one and the same law four times to supplement it 20 times is just proof that it's wandering and it's a characteristic of all the governments of the Republic during our independence period. It is a fundamental problem that from the beginning we have led the strategic side of the economy to the fact that we are now happy when someone from the government says that agriculture has remained a strategic branch of the economy. And let it be taught in high school not in college, strategic branches of the economy, agriculture, shipbuilding, tourism. Today, agriculture must be happy to remember anyone from the government, even on words or on paper, to call it strategic, and that's why agriculture was destroyed. Not to mention the impact it would have on us in Slavonia and Baranja where it is the natural agricultural strategic branch of the economy. That's why we did today... destroying agriculture there...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31054	Branko Bacic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31055	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Buric, you have now expanded the subject through the replica. I agree clearly that the necessity is a national strategy for the development of agriculture. I was talking about another strategy that is once again related to the National Strategy for the Development of Agriculture in Croatia because it would help its own provisions to limit the introduction of GMOs in any case in Croatia as one of the countries which, according to its diversity, at the very top of the EU Member States, would help promote their own product that other countries cannot achieve and which other countries can therefore reach for such products because they cannot compensate for those natural benefits that the Republic of Croatia has. I agree with you there. But it's not the only strategy this government has announced that it hasn't adopted. We have already heard and we have asked here as Parliament's representatives to approach the creation of a state property management strategy that the strategy would clearly say what we think about state property, as well as about the management of Croatian forests, Croatian waters, so that such proposals of the law, such as the proposed law on strategic and aesthetic projects, could not at all come into public debate because I assume that a quality strategy that would prescribe a way of managing state property in the Republic of Croatia would immediately have stalled it and would not be divided into the Croatian public on the basis of a law that practically destroys the entire system of spatial planning in the Republic, which is to a certain extent unconstitutional, because it is not based on any valid strategy and quality thinking in the Republic of Croatia on which this law should be based.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31056	Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31057	Thank you very much. You have well noticed and explained the whole procedure that this law should have been proposed in the first place, and what it was necessary to contact or what content to take to say in some normal procedure. But it's skipped, and we don't know that reason. The only reason we can bring it down to some sort of modernity. The desire for us to be bigger Europeans in Croatia than the EU citizens themselves and prematurely with a uncertain end to even joining the EU. And we've been trying to figure out why this law was passed a few months ago. I don't know about some other law that was passed, and that's that famous law amending the VAT Act where 5% of the tax on bread, milk and other products that he covered were introduced. We know that the government wanted to put its hand in the pocket before time and take several hundred million kunas to Croatian citizens in the budget, we know that. However, simply looking at the content I say we have become a modernist and we want to be bigger Europeans than the EU citizens themselves and by looking at the procedure we are that famous wing "Think globally, act locally" seems to have turned thoughts globally sleep over this second part or sleep locally. Because we just don't see why something's going on and there's no need for that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31058	And the answer to Branko Bacic's line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31059	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I am indeed a supporter of the EU and the obligations of the Republic of Croatia to bring everything necessary into Croatian legislation by the day of accession, and in particular is the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to introduce the regulation adopted by the EU Parliament and the Council into legislation as is the case here in this law. However, if this regulation that we must include in national legislation is not bound by the deadline, and that date is the date of accession, then I am not a supporter that under the mask of that adaptation of Croatian legislation we are working on the back of the EU law on the nose, which is more so than that law which changes these amendments and amendments require further debate on a very sensitive topic in the Republic of Croatia, which is GMO products. So when we have already decided to include this office in our national legislation and we were not obliged to bring it to this day, then I see no reason why the Government did not go into this procedure any more than there is an obligation in the current law to the Ministry of Agriculture to make that national strategy and thus we are looking at a number of issues that regulate the use or possible introduction of GMO products into the Croatian environment or for the use of GMO products on Croatian shelves in shops consumed by Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31060	Miss twilight's debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31061	Thank you very much, Madam President of the Croatian Parliament. Pe here today we heard a lot of debates and I would really welcome the debate of colleagues of Bačić and the replica he responded to because indeed in his debate he said what we should all basically sign. I'd start my debate, and I'll start with one quote, I rarely do it, but here's the quote I liked because it seems to me that everything is summed up in it. He says that only a pretentious man imagines that he can change nature without consequences, but when he changes one thing irrevocably triggers an entire cycle of change that destroys everything. This also applies in a very good way in the production of GMO products. So now I'm not going to talk about the whole regulation about this. I agree that perhaps we should not have talked about these regulations today but perhaps wait to see what will happen in the European Union. We can say that Europe, and in particular Croatia is one of the last oasis of genetically unmodified food, and as long as the Europeans, we can't talk about Croatia, are willing to pay twice as much organic production products, and while we all have a strong resistance and fear of such GMO products, all the big companies that invest a terrible amount of money in their propaganda will find it difficult to reach the final goal, i.e. to the buyer. So I think that we should have all these three laws today, these three proposals are very important ahead of us, it's about chemicals, it's about detergents and it's about GMO food, talk to one big respect, and we can really be proud that Croatia is still environmentally unpolluted in the most part. What's happening in the world today, and that's what I was just talking about, our 8 environmental producers because at the world's largest fair in Nuremberg, they exhibit their organic certified products there. No one can come to that fair who does not have a properly certified organic product. I asked Mrs. North, who is a famous young environmental producer together with my wife, why I'm saying this, because by waving organic production, young people, educated people, have finished their colleges, and have realized that food production is in principle, and especially that organic food is the future. It is still in Croatia, this organic food is not as expensive as it is in Europe. We organic food here in Croatia don't pay twice as much, we pay it maybe for kuna or half as much as we would pay for any product on shelves in our shops. What's important is to develop consciousness in young people. I'm glad that up here today are young people and develop awareness of how important it is to take care of such a way of production, how important it is when you provide a hand for vegetables, fruits, meat or something, take in reality that product, look at that label that talks about the product itself. We who are older must have both increased and perfect optics because it is so finely written that it is simply not visible. The more fine it is written with more doubt, see what is written in this product and whether it is worth buying, whether it is worth eating. So I have to say that the former government had and wrote, it's an action plan for organic agricultural production in 2011-2016, and that action plan is here with me today. I am sorry that, under this plan, a lot of these laws we had ahead of us, so that is also the Agricultural Land Act in some way not respected, so we would then get in this bill of law, perhaps the minister in his changes will do so, in a way, to make it easier for those agricultural producers dealing with organic farming. It was precisely in this action plan that there was, of course, too little ecological agricultural areas where such production takes place, about 2% of total hectares. The desire was, and the intention with good support to reach 6% of the agricultural area. What's unusually important is tourism. For the purpose of tourism in this action plan, it says that all small hotels that are on the Adriatic will be co-financed exactly in a way if they buy products from small producers, i.e. products from organic producers that today have thousands in Croatia. They don't process big surfaces. One of the strongest counties would be said to be Slavonia-Baranja County as regards organic production. There was a big role played by defenders with their cooperatives. Unfortunately, I also see in this Law on Agricultural Land neither defenders nor cooperatives have the advantage of buying or renting land, I hope to enter and buying land because it is impossible to encourage finally what is important, and it is important for Europe to produce and it is cooperative and clusters. They're no longer cooperatives or cooperatives like they used to be where they forced us to, not me, but since '45. And there's that fear one of those things. This is not what our people wanted, but you can't go to the market unless you join in some kind of cooperative or cluster. I would like to say that all of us here really need to support Croatia free of GMO production, that we really should support all of this so far, and that is 21 counties and no matter how it will be voted, this will be voted of course because colleagues have a majority. For the first time, I would say that one is a legal regulation and the other is what we will do in reality and how we will ensure that this organic agricultural production can also be said conventionally but with reduced use, that is, under the control of the use of all these pesticides and all other means in use. What I used to stand for in the city of Zagreb, which is that we don't even have a single bank of our indigenous genes, or plants, there is something at the Faculty of Agronomics. However, it would be very good if these plant and animal varieties could be stored as autochtons, our products in one agricultural bank and that much, much more work is done on it. What is very good already is our forests that, say, two-thirds of Croatia are in forests which are good for our forests that they have FSC certificates. This means that they facilitate the ability to collect environmentally certified self-certified plants and forest fruits. Well, we should be all over the place, and we Assembly representatives and all the other and young people, so we should be sure that this Croatia remains ecological, so I won't say it can't stay completely clean, but that what was intact to stay and now we're betting that we're guarding nature and that really every single piece of this organic farming can't usually take place on large parcels because there are then other parcels that are being treated and then we can't get a certificate and we can support all of our environmental producers and we're more concerned about what we buy and who we buy from. Well, that's kind of the best message to those importers of some food that I'd say not food but garbage, because food can't be unhealthy and can't, as soon as it's like that, it's garbage. And one more thing. We had the strictest regulation regarding veterinary inspections. However, when we agreed with the EU, there was a lot There's been some simplification, so maybe now it can actually happen to us. [[Thank you very much. Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31062	Thank you very much. Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31063	Here's an esteemed colleague, you said we're probably one of the few countries that manufactures non-genetically modified food. Perhaps this is so, perhaps from the fact that the incentives and the agriculture programme are reduced by a billion and a half kuna, so many today have neither for artificial fertilisers nor for certain herbicides, etc. etc. And many at this point are not even prepared for spring sowing. We could talk about ecologically clean land. We need one refinery across the street from Slavonski Brod to pollute half of Slavonia and half of Croatia, but here you are since you are practically a bank of genes, so maybe it wouldn't be good here regardless of what the beginning of the criteria today is, post. Now in Slavonia, we have the time of that young bacon or in Dalmatia as they call the pancetta, so before that drying, many citizens who unfortunately do not have enough resources in Slavonia today to buy at least one pig and make those traditional Slavonic slaughters go to malls and buy on that sale a huge plate of bacon that is so thick. When it's dry, it's somewhere this thick. When you put it back in the water, it swells up and that's what we eat. Not to mention extra virgin olive oil, since sometimes I go to a store on Christmas, Christmas and Easter, and that's made possible by law and Sunday, so I'm just surprised when one... Yes, you can. Try walking around the centers and you'll see that it works on Christmas and ask the workers and Easter Let me finish. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31064	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31065	My colleague interrupted me, so you'll see that oil...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31066	Thank you. Here you go, comrade twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31067	Thank you very much. A colleague of Vinkovic's, like this. Christmas certainly doesn't do anything, but on the rest of the holidays it's the man himself whether we go shopping or not, how much we appreciate these holidays, so I say ok. I have to get ready before, and on that holiday I'm not going to go shopping for sure and I'm not going and I don't need it at all. Although the people who work when you ask them they'll be working on some holidays, but they want it paid. And that's the point. When we are and we will be safe one day and rich, a country rich in one good regulation then our stores will not work longer than Saturday afternoon at 6:00. And it's as good as it is somewhere in European countries, where after 18 hours of Saturdays it doesn't work. And as far as these virgin import oils are concerned, I don't know what I was saying, you should look at that declaration. I personally, and I know a lot of people, I don't think of buying any such or similar import product, and I take great care of it, I look very closely at the dates of production, I look very closely at the declarations of what it says, when it comes to both meat and everything else. I believe much more in our products regardless of the delay I am also a doctor of veterinary medicine and I know very well both the technologies and all the other Istrian and other prosciuttos that are of Dutch pigs. However, the law has changed so that it can no longer be done. If something's now got a stamp of geographical origin or something like that, then it's still got to be grown, say, that pig.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31068	Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31069	Thank you. Well, here's what you MPs were very nice about organic production, and I'd say with a good part of what you said, but let's say if I can add my opinion, this organic production that's now modern is actually just one replacement for that organic production that we had in Croatia, and that was yard cultivation. It was those cows that went to the pasture, so we had really good milk. These were those chickens and those turkeys that were in the courtyards, so we had good eggs and really homemade turkey. It was also homemade cheese, it was the tomatoes you can no longer buy anywhere because practically their seed was gone, which were fleshed all over their surface, and not only had a few millimetres of meat and water inside. It was a lot of these products that one system-based agricultural policy over the past decades that went to the system of shutting down exactly this ma most ordinary production in the yard ruined and started to create some big producers who, due to profits and agricultural policy, actually went after the cultivation of those varieties and in those ways that were economically profitable for them, but actually disappeared these small producers. The ones that produce in the yard. And no matter what 80% of pigs in Croatia still come from the yard, and only 20% of all of our so-called big manufacturers. And these environmental producers are certainly welcome. Yet, they are just an economic derivative of what we actually had in the phase of our agricultural production, and we have failed and we have not been able to preserve because we have failed and we do not know how to keep the village and the value of that village itself and its production.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31070	The reply to the replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31071	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I agree with you in one part. What I wanted to say was exactly that, this philosophy of rural development. Of course we have to follow the development through that we want a larger quantity, more production, etc., that it does not go without some supplements, which means it was some artificial fertiliser, some means and so on. But what I would never want this government to do, and given some statements made by the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, I am particularly sorry for the minister when he says that small family agricultural economies should be extinguished. I would never do that because that economy from one cow to three is exactly what you're talking about right now. And that economy feeds itself. So he's doing something for himself, and he needs help in some way to survive, to encourage him. The truth is, environmental producers, there are only 1,000 of them, they don't process large areas, and maybe it's a good thing they don't process too many surfaces because I think in thousands of hectares, some kind of organic production is impossible. I really want to support it is such production, and that's also the one you were talking about manufacturing inside the yard and that our children still have access to such production and that we teach them that it's better than a great apple or I don't know. However, as far as imports are concerned, so unfortunately, we don't grow bananas, pineapples, kiwia or avocados, which we're all more used to today, we want to have in our menus, we want some products that we don't produce and we don't have.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31072	Thank you very much. Comrade Dinko Buric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31073	My colleagues and I would agree with most of your debate, especially when you were talking about the importance of organic production. But I have to correct you, not for the first time probably unconsciously wrong, now I'm using the opportunity to say there is no Slavonia-Baranja County but Osijek-Baranja County. So, it used to be more than once, but here's clean because of your future advances. I'd just like to refer to the fact that it's important to watch the declarations. I agree with you, but unfortunately today in Croatia there are more than 21% of poor people. And our citizens because of this great poverty, and what this current government has contributed significantly to today are not looking at the declarations at all, they are looking at the prices. It's unfortunately our reality and truth. And when you're hungry, when you need to feed your family with less and less money, then going to the store turns into calculating, not looking at quality. And that's something that's a fact, and that's something that if we want good for Croatian citizens then the government that has received the trust of these citizens must take care of it. When we get to the fact that it's not the most important price, then there's going to be a declaration. We're unfortunately very, very far from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31074	The reply to the replica, Miss twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31075	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Thank you for correcting my colleague Buric and, of course, you have noticed very well, unfortunately today most of the people in Croatia are going with a certain amount of money and I would say not to watch those declarations. However, in all developed European countries, and I hope that such a type of offer will also be with us, that products that allow this 0.9% of any GMO effect in this product will be separated will, of course, be cheaper. But education and the media should do their part. When this government will be able to strengthen the Croatian man in reality, so will the Croatian consumer and the Croatian family so that they can go and buy a product, I really don't have an answer to that question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31076	Both colleagues and colleagues will hear the HDSSB club at the end of five minutes before the break. Dinko Buric, here's a colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31077	Thank you, Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. There's a lot that's been said, and here's the debate. So the problem of food all over the world, not just in the Republic of Croatia is huge. We've already talked about billions and billions of people who are now in a situation that are either really hungry or are among those who are characterized as malnourished. So more than 5 billion people belong to these two categories. We've brought together a discussion of four laws. One of these laws was how we say what, so what comes into contact with food, we said it wasn't the packaging problem but what's inside. It is a sad fact that we are exporting healthy today and importing food of dubious quality, and we have pointed out and again I will say that our own food production is indeed one of the elements of the sovereignty of each country and that is why it is unusually important to introduce in Croatia the necessity of food independence of the Republic of Croatia. So Croatia must install its food independence. And unfortunately, we have the opposite fact that we are reducing production and increasing imports, so here there have been talks about milk, I will only mention the devastating fact that this policy that is headed towards our agricultural producers has led to the fact that today in Croatia, out of the five economies that delivered milk has lost four of them. When we talk about the history of our village, then we must not ignore the worrying fact as well, this all needs to be said to change for the better, not the worse. That in the last 50 years in, in the area of the Republic of Croatia, the average property has been reduced by a third, while at the same time in France or, for example, in France. In the Netherlands, that property was raised three times, and we reduced it three times. I also talked about importing food from 40 to 45% of the total amount of 29 billion dollars since the existence of an independent Croatian state and exported food for only 18 billion dollars. It's something we must be very concerned about. And I especially want to point out something that wasn't there, a lot has been said so more casually about scientific evidence of the possible harmfulness of GMO food. I have to say something here, the fact is, I was already talking about the influence of the U.S. government and multinational corporations that have powerful lobbies right in the U.S. government. Americans, that's a fact, today they dictate and they want to have a monopoly over supply, our global food supply. Americans today accept as the scientific truth and scientists, only those who do not deal critically with the problem of GMO food, while those who oppose the introduction of such crops and foods at the very least have no words. We in Slavonia and Baranja, I'm just going to say about the Americans, I don't know how well it is known that it is, for example. When the European Commission opposed the introduction of GMOs, the US Ambassador to Paris sent a tip to Washington to oppose any EU member state that would oppose the introduction and allowable GMOs to wage a real trade war. That's unfortunately true. And in conclusion, I'm going to say why we, here at the HDSB club, are so important and why we are so involved in this food debate. Well, because agriculture is a strategic branch of the economy, especially in Slavonia and Baranja and in all of Croatia, but most of all it concerns us. Slavonia and Baranja once a whole Republic of Croatia has unfortunately become an area where hungry people live. That's what we want to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31078	Thank you. Replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31079	Dear fellow Buric, you spoke of the food independence of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia lost first and foremost military sovereignty, lost economic sovereignty at the very beginning, lost financial sovereignty. Because the Croatians no longer own our banks, in fact we banks don't have one bigger bank, we will lose political sovereignty, and it looks like we will lose total and food sovereignty, or we will be dependent on food production, on the import of food from Europe and the rest of the world. It's quite clear that we don't know how to produce the best computer in the world, that we don't know how to produce the best car in the world, that we don't know what from technology in the world, but we sure as hell know how to make the best food in the world. If we had exported the best quality meat from Croatia to Vienna in the beginning of the last century, then Croatia lost what it was best at, we have no right to do so. You're absolutely right when you say we're importing bad food, food we don't know of origin. We don't know how many times melted and then frozen and then melted. But we're doing everything we can to keep the Slavonian peasant from producing food, to answer it, to do all the measures to make as little milk as possible, to import as possible. GMO is a new threat not only to Croatia but to the world and it is absolutely certain that we need to be on guard but it seems to me that we are too small to get rid of it, but it is very important that Croatia must put forth extreme efforts to stop importing 45% of food because Croatia can produce as much as it can eat.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31080	Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31081	My dear colleague, I would only, in part, agree with your findings on certain parts of sovereignty can be spoken correctly, if we had left them knowingly here by EU entry, but I would not have said it so easily. It won't be that easy. We also warned during the debate on EU accession that we are entering an EU that is designed as a confederate, not a federal state. To try to federalise the EU, make sure that in Croatia, a huge number of citizens will stand up. But that's another topic. I'm going now to this part that you were talking about food production. Yes, we can produce the best food, but unfortunately this best food is not eaten by Croatian citizens, but eaten by citizens of other countries. We export the best food we produce in Croatia and import what they will not. That's what this is all about and it's sad today, it's sad. It is said that we have a situation for tourists who come to the Republic of Croatia to eat imported food and that's a shame. It's a shame. But it is more than a shame, tragically, that import food is not only eaten by tourists who come to the Republic of Croatia during the tourist season than that import food is eaten throughout the year by Croatian citizens. In addition to everything you said we were able to produce the best food in the world eaten by gentlemen in Vienna, Brussels, and I don't know where. They eat healthy food coming from Croatia, and we eat garbage that they don't even give to their domestic animals. Not generalizing, but unfortunately, in a huge number of cases, that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31082	Young Novak replica. Here you go, colleague Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31083	Thank you very much. My colleague Buric, this is part of home education and would not comment on Mrs Anticevic's intrusion. As far as your discussion is concerned, you mentioned a circle of property in some countries and what's going on with us. Well, I can tell you that you're partly right and, unfortunately, you're not. It's about rounding up land, but not with our will, but with unfavourable loans. People are brought into situations and political measures that they are forced to raise loans so they give up the production they started and they are forced into it, they are pushed into it, and now the country will take over the banks which, by force of opportunity, will surround these properties and yet there will be a rounding but we thus bypassed the fact that there is no sale of the Croatian country, agricultural land for 7 years, it has practically already gone. And another part that from your presentation, scientific opinions regarding the Americans and their views. We can work as hard as we want, but the fact is that, unfortunately today, it has become that scientific opinion is a purchase product and that you can buy scientists who will advocate one thesis and scientists who will advocate a completely opposite thesis. Unfortunately, it's true and it happens and it's reality. And now that we need these scientists, these or those who will advocate one or the other the thesis of what is good for us, that is, what destroys us. If that's what someone on the side should tell us, then it's really me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31084	Replication response, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31085	Thank you. When it comes to rounding up the land. The fact I've stated is she's insufferable. So I said about the current state of what happened here in the last five decades with Croatian. The fact is that it's the size of the property, but I'm talking about small farmers, so those who lived from their work, from food production, and they still had it for themselves, and they could still place it for others both for Croatia and for the former Yugoslavia, etc. The fact is that our possessions are reduced to a third of what was before, and at the same time those who run the smart agriculture policy didn't French and the Dutch did it by chance, they tripled the size of their properties and I agree entirely with your finding that we already have them in action, and that's what we keep warning about. By destroying Croatia's small farmer, the manufacturers are deliberately creating conditions, they are first drawn to raise credits, then the banks have sat down on their necks, then the additional government of the Republic of Croatia has still tightened the noose around their necks and they are now coming into position to survive not to lose their property, without anything, the banks will have to hand it over and thus they will come to a circle of property. But the banks are already in the hands of strangers. And we don't have to wait seven years for them to already, so this country that has fallen into the bank, it belongs to foreigners. I, too, cited an example for dairy producers in Croatia, that out of the five such policies of the economies that were involved in the production and delivery of milk 4 have failed. There's only 1 out of 5 left. This is unfortunately the reality of the Croatian day.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31086	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the points discussed later. And now I'm setting a break until 3:00.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31087	Final proposal of the Law on materials and articles that come in direct contact with food, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 273. The debate on the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 120 votes for the Law on Materials and Objects that come in direct contact with food in the text as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31685	Dear colleagues and esteemed colleagues, we continue our work. We will discuss in a united debate the draft laws under regular number 9 and 10. These are - Final draft laws amending and supplementing the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 271 - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on construction products, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 278 The proposer of both laws is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motions of the acts into the boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Rules of Procedure shall unite the first and second readings for both legislative proposals, and amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. For both legislative proposals, the discussion was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Law and the Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, and their reports were received at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain these proposals? Yeah. Dear Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning, Mrs Anka Mrak Taritash. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31686	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. It is about two amendments and additions to the law. The first proposal is about amendments to the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction. This amendment and addition shall be made in accordance with the law in question with two European Union directives. One Directive is a Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, and another Directive is on services on the internal market. In particular, these amendments and additions are proposed as follows, which is that authorised architects and authorised engineers of construction can have several offices. So far, they could only have one. The rule was then deleted, under which, after 6 months of suspended work, the right to carry out the tasks and activities of authorised architects and authorised engineers is lost. And equally when it comes to the recognition of certain qualifications then it's the chambers. In case someone was rejected at the time, the Ministry decides on the refusal. In this case, architects are excluded as provisions on the automatic recognition of qualifications under Chapter 3 are directly applicable to the architectural profession of the European Union Directive. Similarly, this amendment and the addition of the law is in line with the General Administrative Procedure Act and the criminal provisions are in line with the relevant law. So this is about amending and supplementing the Act on Architectural and Engineering Activities. The second amendment and addition refers to the Construction Products Act. The applicable Construction Products Act is in 2008. At the time it was adopted, it was fully in line with all European Union directives. However, in 2011, however, the European Commission adopted a new directive, in which the deadline for harmonisation for all members of the European Union in relation to construction products became 1 July 2013. The Directive also stated the way in which the entities involved are related to the economic operators related to construction products, which are producers, legal entities authorised to assess conformity and certification of construction products and legal persons for the adoption of technical regulations, should act by 1 July 2013. On 1 July 2013, a regulation of the European Commission setting this up will apply directly to a fully harmonised area and a harmonisation will then have to be implemented for the non-harmonised area. Therefore, this amendment and the supplement are proposed to adopt one regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, this Regulation together with this amendment and the amendment will apply until 1 July 2013. As of 1 July 2013, the harmonised area will be subject to the regulation of the European Union, and for the non-harmonised, we will have a obligation to pass a new law, and this is the moment since we are not a member of the European Union, but the only procedure is this, first amendment and addition of the Law on Construction Products, which will define certain things, and since 1 July then the regulation of the European Union and the creation of a new Construction Products Act. This amendment and supplementation shall also simplify certain procedures and comply with certain European Union directives. Similarly, this amendment and the addition were carried out in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act and the criminal provisions were harmonised. Thank you very much, and the Government proposes that the Croatian Parliament adopt these two amendments and supplement these two legislative proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31687	I thank you, too, dear Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We start with clubs. On behalf of the SDP club will be spoken by a respected representative...... I just asked. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, I didn't see you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Here you go, then. Committee on Spatial Planning and Construction, Honored Representative Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31688	Dear Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, I only answered for a reason because you'll be getting the materials from the board a little later, that's all. Conclusions. Just to let you know that the board has unanimously supported one and the other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31689	Thank you. We're moving on to discussion. On behalf of the SDP MPs' club, a respected representative, Vedran Babic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31690	Thank you very much. Dear Vice President, honourable ministers with an assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. I will start first with the Construction Products Act, which was passed in 2008. This Act regulates the technical characteristics, conformity assessment and demonstration of the use of construction products as conditions for their placing on the market, distribution and use to the extent necessary to meet the essential requirements for construction laid down by the Law on spatial planning and construction, technical regulations and harmonised European specifications. The Law also regulates the implementation of administrative and other procedures and provides for the rights and obligations of the body of the state administration, as well as legal and natural persons. The law on construction products when adopted in accordance with Council Directive 89/106/EEC, under which issues related to construction products are regulated during the transitional period until the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Regulation No 305/211 of the European Parliament and of the Council repeals that Directive from 30 June 2013 with a previous adjustment deadline for a new one. Since that Regulation is not directly applicable in the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, these amendments and additions to the Construction Products Act shall ensure that those procedures are implemented, the activities necessary for Croatian economic operators to comply with that Regulation. Furthermore, the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction Products simplifies the procedures for granting powers to carry out operations, assessing the conformity of construction products, and the powers to adopt permits in such a way that the power to grant authorisations is transferred from the Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning to the Ministry itself. This process, i.e. by transferring powers from the minister to the ministry, will shorten the procedure within the ministry itself in a way that ensures a faster resolution of the applications submitted, and will streamline the cost of working time for the implementation of the procedure. Furthermore, the process of issuing technical permits for construction products has been simplified. In addition, as regards the date of the adoption of the law, the Law on Construction Products should be brought into line with the Criminal Law in order to avoid overlapping legal descriptions of offences and criminal offences, and with the General Administrative Procedure Act. I briefly referred to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction Products, and now we will now refer to the Second Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Physical Planning and Construction, which entered into force on 1 January 2009. This law regulates the carrying out of professional activities of spatial planning, design and professional construction supervision, the carrying out of construction activities, the carrying out of the project management and the association of professional associations of architects and engineers in construction for the purpose of ensuring quality, professional and responsible performance of these tasks and activities. During the application of this Act, the European Commission has established that certain provisions of this Directive need to be aligned with Directives in terms of recognition of professional qualifications and in terms of services on the internal market. Also with the Law on regular professions and the recognition of professional qualifications. In particular, the proposed changes remove obstacles that authorised architects and authorised engineers in construction can only have one office. The rule is also deleted according to which architects and engineers in construction after half a year of suspended work lose the right to do business, and to the prescribed competences of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Arrangement to resolve the appeal declared against the solution of the recognition of foreign professional qualifications relating to the Croatian Chamber of Architecture, the Chamber of Engineers of Engineering, the Chamber of Engineers of Engineering and the Chamber of Electrical Engineering. In addition to that harmonisation of the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legal property of the EU, this law should be brought into line with the terms and conditions of the General Administrative Procedure Act and the Law on Design, the section of the Ministry and other central authorities of the State administration that came into force later. Also, the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction needs to be brought into line with the Penal Code in order to avoid overlapping legal descriptions and violations of criminal offences as was the case in the previous law. Finally, the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Act on Architectural Engineering Affairs and Activities in the Spatial Planning and Construction and Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Construction Products will be supported by additional resources in the State budget of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31691	Thank you. The replica was signed up by a colleague, Vinkovic, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31692	Here's Dear counterpart Babic, we have witnessed these past months, for example, at the Ministry of Education that certain commissions have been changed for the slow work and that jurisdiction of the day of the minister, so for the speed of the procedure, etc. Now, here in this law, we have an entirely opposite situation to do again call the speeds of work and it is related to Articles 2, 4, 6 and 9. The law on construction products shall, or in this case, give the minister its authority to the competent ministry. That competent ministry is exactly the same ministry. So, I don't see the end of it, and the question is, who's running that ministry? Officials in the ministry who are obviously going to do this job faster than the minister, and I remind you that each of these items will have to go through that manual, get their classification mark, then this item will walk from room to room and only then again because I don't see the possibility that anyone else will sign those documents except for the present minister and then after one month, two or three come to the minister for a signature that will approve it. So, I don't see that intention, and I don't know why the minister's word in this law is replaced by the word ministry. I am absolutely certain that this will not be at the lowest levels of decision-making, or in the offices of the state administration.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31693	Time. Replicate response, respected representative Vedran Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31694	Thank you. My dear colleague, here I am, in my best faith, gonna trust the minister to know what she's doing and to go in terms of speeding up the process, believe you too. And here I call on the Minister to answer your specific question and this technical procedure that will take place when you receive approval and similar documents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31695	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of Croatian Labourists – The parties of work will speak to the respected representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31696	Dear Vice President, the minister with the deputy, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs. The Act on architectural engineering and spatial planning and construction activities provides for the implementation of professional activities of spatial planning, design and professional construction supervision, the operation of the construction of construction projects, and further arrangements and association with professional associations of architects, engineers with the aim of better quality, professional and responsible performance of these activities in the activity, as well as other objectives of certain specific regulations governing areas of spatial planning and construction. From this we see that the law has its weight and its very importantness. The amendments to the law themselves are practically technical, because, as the European Commission explains, it has established that certain provisions need to be aligned with the EU Directive, and they relate to the recognition of professional qualifications in the architectural and engineering field of activity. Therefore, the adoption of the proposed amendments to the legislation of the Republic of Croatia is further aligned with the acquis of the EU. Furthermore, in the Law on Architecture and Engineering, activities in spatial planning and construction need to be harmonised in terms of terms and terminology and is in practice aligned with the Criminal Law of the Republic of Croatia. The law deletes provisions that have been prescribed that authorised architects, or engineers, have only one office. Provisions are also deleted which are prescribed that authorised architects, i.e. engineers, must carry out the work truly and continuously without interruption, removing the obstacle which, after 6 months of suspended work, lost the right to continue to carry out the work and activity of authorised architects and authorised engineers. The provisions on continuous work are an obstacle for Croatian architects and engineers to do jobs in other countries. Their work is conditioned by continuing doing business in the Republic of Croatia while engineers from other EU member states can do these jobs both there and here in the Republic of Croatia. As far as I know, and I don't know, I may be wrong, but I think there's very little of them, that they've come here and they've opened offices where they work. These are changes that are practically technical and about 3.5 thousand engineers and architects will have a better position with these changes in the amendments themselves. If anything, they can practically open their offices outside Croatia and if they have no business in Croatia they will be able to work outside of it. The work of architects depends primarily on investments in Croatia. When there is no investment then clearly there are far fewer jobs for them. The work of architects, engineers has mirrored all around us because when we turn around everything that was built practically it is also the work of them. Practically, this part of the job is valued as artistic discipline, but there are certain exceptions for creating certain profits that go to harm and architecture and professions and reward the environment, and sometimes have harmful consequences for the ecological work. These problems, which are present clearly, must be taken into account by respecting the profession and the arguments no matter how much pressure can be from individual investors or individual lobbys. Due to the lack of investment in the country so far, we will sooner have a case for these experts to leave the country, and this law will allow them, which means that if certain investments are not launched, we will also have the outflow of this profession outside our country's space. When it comes to investment, then I must briefly look back at the announcement the other day that Minister Vrdoljak announced that final investments and projects worth 320 billion euros were launched, according to the principle of public private partnership, and schools, hospitals, museums, state archives were mentioned, especially at the value of the investments, the Square of Justice, where judicial institutions would be placed. With former Minister Čačić, we had a project Zagreb on Sava, and now with Minister Vrdoljak the project Square of Justice, but so far it is only on paper. With these other investments, some experts say that the projects that are being run, that they are obsolete, that somewhere around 40 years we have been coughing behind them and that we are going to drive an outdated technology that will damage the environment, not create new jobs, will not benefit, and only import lobbys will benefit from it, our experts will certainly do the job, but they need additionally to know what investments they are. This is the only reason I mentioned this because in this situation only construction is practically on its knees and if certain investments don't start then construction itself won't start, but it's just kind of my observation along the way regarding one part of this law, and Croatian Labourists will support the changes to this law, because they are practically technical. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31697	What the HNS' position on these legal proposals will be heard from a respected colleague, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31698	Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with an associate. As far as these two laws are concerned, the HNS Club will surely support and support. These are two laws that primarily relate to technical issues and laws that comply with EU laws and EU directives. Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. The old law of 2008, 2009 and 2011 regulates the performance of the professional activities of spatial planning, design and professional construction supervision, the carrying out of construction activities, the operation of the management of the project of construction and association in the professions of the Association of Engineers' Architects for the purpose of ensuring quality professional and responsible implementation, which regulates the area of spatial planning and construction. With the application of this old law, the European Commission has established that certain provisions of this law need to be aligned with Directive 2005/36 of the European laws on the recognition of professional qualifications of Directive 2006/123 EC on services on the internal market and with the law of regulated professions and the recognition of professional qualifications of the National Journal of 124/2009. and 45/2011. In Article 11, Article 1 discusses compliance with EU rules. Article 2 deletes that an authorised architect or engineer may have only one office which we consider to be such a more liberal approach, so that an authorised architect may have several offices in the field of the Republic of Croatia. The ministry responsible for works of construction and spatial planning is concerned with no-technically determining its jurisdiction. By removing obstacles related to the rule, continuous work, this is the question that authorised engineers have been after six months of not performing their work in the profession, they have lost the powers of authorised architects that we believe are not well and that there is, the EU has also warned. In addition, the provisions to be deleted are obstacles to Croatian architects because doing jobs in other countries has conditionaled on them doing jobs, really and constantly in the Republic of Croatia. While architects engineers coming from other member states can perform a service in the Republic of Croatia without meeting that condition. Consistency with Directive 205/36. The EC on the recognition of professional qualifications. Article 72 also defines exactly what procedure authorised EU architects must meet the conditions in order to achieve the possibility of performing architectural and engineering activity in the Republic of Croatia. The Chamber may, in accordance with the provisions of a special law governing the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, grant occasional permits, but mainly in the strict jurisdiction of the architectural chamber. The aim of the proposed law is to complement the harmonisation of the rules governing the freedom to provide services to architectural, engineering and spatial planning and construction activities in the common EU market, and to further develop the arrangements of these businesses and these activities in the Republic of Croatia. In addition, Article 85 sets out precisely and clearly, powers are laid down, powers which are conferred on the Chamber of Architects because the chamber has one part and public powers. Normally, according to this and the part relating to certain criminal provisions, it is also in line with EU laws and directives. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Construction Products Act. This legislative proposal aligns the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation. In accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EC) No 2111/2005 of the European Parliament and of the Council, the European Parliament and of the Council Technical characteristics, compliance coordination and demonstration of the usability of construction products have been arranged as conditions for their placing on the market. Distribution to the extent necessary to meet the essential requirements for construction and certain laws on spatial planning and construction, technical regulations and harmonisation of the European specification. It is important here that this law, which applied to 2008 that Croatia was obliged to comply with its legislation with EU law, is proposed to have a transitional period for the Republic of Croatia as of 24.04.2011. -30.06.2013, business of economic operators needs to be brought into line with the regulation. The proposed law creates a legal basis for the adoption of a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia which will regulate the transitional period to coordinate business of economic operators in the area of construction areas with the EU regulation. After 1.7.2013, it is mandatory to apply EU Regulation 315 of 2011. The law simplifies the procedures for the authorisation to carry out conformity assessment operations of construction products and the powers to adopt technical authorisations in such a way that the power to authorise is transferred from the Minister to the Ministry. Such an arrangement allows the authorisation to be signed by a person designated by the Internal Order of the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction. In this way, we believe that the process is significantly accelerated, and this is not a newspaper either, nor a response to Mr. Vinkovic, that it is already possible, according to the interior order of the ministry, that part of the work under the powers of the minister has been transferred to lower levels. Simplification of the decision-making process on the takeover of the European technical authorisation of the Ministry of Civil Engineering and Spatial Planning may be assessed in the context of the performance of its professional-analytical activities as required by the technical authorisation in accordance with Croatian regulations. This is also important that here the criminal provisions which apply to the severity of certain criminal provisions and individual offences, which are based on this provision, determine the appropriate punishment for the severity of the offence, but it is important that several times these penalties for non-compliance are much, much less. The aim of the proposed law is to complement the harmonisation of the rules governing the area of freedom of movement of goods, construction products on the common EU market. In the case of entry 1.7. The Republic of Croatia must apply strictly and for all those cases which have been singled, Croatia will have to comply with specific regulations again that are in line with EU law. The HNS Club will support the adoption of these two laws, which have a PZE mark, an emergency procedure for them to be adopted in this form. I would only say that both laws on the parent board received unanimous support from all members, both positions and opposition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31699	Thank you. Replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31700	Thank you. Dear fellow Mandic, you have read this beautifully, these materials in your discussion. I would just resent that when you read everything from first to last, then you did not specify the class, the service number and Zagreb, the date and the one. That's what we read, what you were just talking about in the debate. You could immediately tell the HNS Club is for and done, not read from word to word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31701	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31702	Thank you very much to the esteemed representative of my colleague Buric, so I do not know in what other way to prepare words if you are talking about two amendments that are within the law that the possibility is given to architects or have several offices. How can you say that differently? How can you say the question for six months so there's no new job. I don't know if there may be any other words in your statement. What I would say is that the bill was very clear and very accurate and I have no reason to add or be smarter, to invent a steamer, it's long invented. I therefore fully agree with the proposed solutions and the HNS Club is behind such solutions. And I'd like to hear your interpretation, if I agree, then it can be different. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31703	Second replica, representative Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31704	Dear fellow Mandic, you will have to be patient for a little while and hear the opinion of the HDSSB club. However, there is no and I do not see the possibility of lower levels of decision-making because here are these articles that I have listed, the Minister is replaced by the general concept of the ministry. Now who's in the ministry? You don't know that because you're not a minister. You're a representative just like me. It's like if I had the mayor's authority instead of the mayor's words, the city of Djakovo. It might as well be a porter. She might as well be a cleaning lady. So in this law it is necessary to define which lower levels of decision are. If we write a law like this, but this law practically allows the Government to adopt a regulation, nothing revolutionary during the year 2013 as it stands in this argument will be before this sacred House of Democracy of Croatia's new law. And that's a fact, and the HDSSB club is going to say it will support these two laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31705	The reply to the replica, the esteemed Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31706	A respected colleague of the bill is clear and unequivocal. I am now not going to talk about internal order and authority but the law is precisely called on that the minister, according to the interior order and the organisation of inside the ministry, may transfer part of his business to the lower officials. I don't think it's even in conflict with any authority because exactly according to the formation of the ministry it's known exactly what powers can be transferred to a lower level. And I don't know what that part is that's a problem. So it is precisely regulated by the law that the minister can transfer some of his powers to the lower officials according to the structure within the ministry prescribed by the regulation. I believe that every officer at a lower level knows exactly what his powers are, that he will not enter a space that is the responsibility of a minister or minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31707	The HDSSB club and representative Zoran Vinkovic came in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31708	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Minister with an associate, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here's as I was already in the replica of my colleague Mandic and Deputy Mayor of Đakov said the HDSSB club would support both of these laws. It is clear to us that this is to say compliance with EU legal standards, but I still believe that, despite the fact that the adoption of the law will create only a legal assumption for the adoption of a regulation by the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate the adjustment of the business of economic operators involved in the market for construction products for work under the EU Regulation. 305/2011, therefore only this law will allow for the adoption of one such regulation. And the real law will be done as it says here in an explanation during 2013. So, further to me, the issue remains a question, or perhaps, above all, a large amount of work in this ministry, so the minister, and be assured that most likely during the signing, and the professional services of the ministry delivered it to the Minister or the Minister, and that regardless of the size of the job, the minister did not waste time making such a decision and arguing day and night after day about such decisions. It may be disputed that in Article 6 where the word "minister" is also replaced by the word "minister" in a general term and regardless of the interior structure of the ministry and the possibility to appoint a specific person to be in charge, I believe that this law should define which department of the ministry is how many employees will have that office against certain solutions no appeal is allowed. Perhaps this Law on Construction Products and Harmonisation with the EU can open up a debate about I would say about a burning topic in the Republic of Croatia, and it is precisely that in the Republic of Croatia no matter how hard someone has tried to show that we all live better today than a year or eight days ago there are no investments, that we have an enormous drop in investment, that there is practically no such investment, that we have an extremely bad situation in construction where many companies are missing, deleted from the company register, that I would even say not those glasses but at this point in dead capital of the 21st century, which I am not just talking about apartments from the incentive housing program, but also in all other built and private directors, which practically no one has to buy, where the Croatian market for us favourable loans, where citizens so to say hardly close with the end. This may also be related to this Construction Products Act, perhaps the time to open the topic and the construction waste because I am a construction waste and all kinds of waste do not have to be garbage or waste in that classical sense of words, but through recycling is in any case far better quality used than deposited on certain dumps. And there is also Croatia not prepared for construction material, nor for hazardous waste, nor for metal, nor for glass and plastic. I'll just mention a few headlines in the media, a house of PVC bottles, straws as building material, constant environmental concerns, the most unusual wooden house you've seen, energy reconstruction of buildings, preparation for climate change, eco furniture, green roofs, chairs like Darwin would like, etc., etc. At the end of the house that saves your kunas, it is not the plan of painting the facades but, above all, a way that Croatia could actually take advantage of enormous amounts of construction waste and waste. I hope this Ministry, too, but also environmental protection except I would say at this point of explanation why the Ombla hydropower plant, or why not, will begin to deal with such a problem. This second law, which will also be supported, which allows us, first and foremost, to agree in this law with these far smaller penalties, but this second law which allows, in view of the European Commission's order, which has established that the former law and its provisions need to be brought into line with the European Union Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, will allow, above all, legal opportunities for architects, engineers of construction, engineering and all those who have this type of activity, from having more offices than that it does not have to be a permanent job. But this topic is certainly closely related to the current legalisation problem in the Republic of Croatia because I hope, therefore, that neither engineers nor architects will get me wrong, but they also have their own chambers, have their own chamber contribution but what is most important, they also have their own price list of these services. I especially know that it is very difficult to break this agreed price list of all these services and that all those who, even through a public design tender, would go below to say the chamber price list, would lose membership in the chamber, would lose even a license and could not practically work in the Republic of Croatia. This is particularly a burden for the local self-government unit, but it is also a burden at the moment and for all those who wish to legalise illegally built buildings. I'm not talking about fairies, five-star hotels without a building permit, but I'm talking about that part that's related to me, I'd say standard Croats and Croats who can barely make ends meet and who have receipts similar and smaller than that in Bangladesh. The question that is certainly at this price of these services, I believe that at this point, and I am using this opportunity here as a minister, regardless of what a number of public stands were, which I practically believe we have made a mistake in this law and that it should have been absolutely defined, not to be transferred to say so, is the intention of helping citizens legalise these facilities but not to transfer I would say one extremely hot problem. It's not even potatoes, it's at least 100 acres of hot potatoes to local self-government units. Because at this point it's a matter of legalisation and the question I would say even election campaigns of certain political parties, candidates, and we could simply solve it and bring it in, for example. The law as it has brought to us by the friendly and great Republic of Slovenia so as to free all these structures by law, and not by leaving it, although I have advocated that it should be left to the units of local self-government and even free them from a water contribution which is one of the largest points in the process of legalisation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31709	Comrade Vinkovic, can we get across from legalization, at least try to get closer, create an illusion that you're talking about this topic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31710	This is highly related, so I'm talking about architects and engineers who, in order for you to legalize, I hope that you're all your facilities that you've legalized, that you don't have to go to a cadastre or a garter to practice a situation plan, call a certain architect to draw it for you. I'm telling you, it won't be enough for you to have this Vice President's salary. I take advantage of the opportunity and warn that there is a minister and can answer us, and yet this is democracy, I don't have to say what you exclusively want to hear. So at this point, this is one of the biggest problems facing citizens. With this citizen law, it doesn't matter, Mr. Vice President. We will accept these laws, they are related to the EU. During 2013, we will bring and pass a new law, and this Construction Products Act primarily serves if you read it to the Government to pass the regulation. So we're passing the law to the government to lay down a regulation and that's a fact. And if it doesn't mean anything to you to legalize illegally built objects, then that's your problem, not mine. So, I also wanted to warn this debate about extremely large donations I am aware of, and I am aware of the fact that many citizens do not have these resources. I'm aware of the fact that if these citizens are freed to bring in citizens who paid for an unequal position, but I think it's to define it by law because some objects are from '71, some are from '75. Not all of them in 2010. And I warn, so many units of local self-government are reducing the municipal contribution, reducing what should have been the income of urban municipal budgets, and we are also asking you to see the possibility of amending and supplementing the law to reduce another major item. It's a water contribution. We will uphold these two laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31711	The first replica of the respected Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31712	Well, here you are, Mr. Vinkovic, in your own special style, pointing to a few other things, taking advantage of the minister's presence because perhaps the minister doesn't know that, for example, the protests of peasants today on Ferovec and others concern her, so that one of the problems that bothers peasants is why they went out with tractors and one of their demands is exactly the problem of the legalization that you mentioned well. And the problem of legalisation for peasants is not the problem of the price of municipal compensation because it is reduced practically to kuna, two, for agricultural facilities is already the amount that must be paid to architects and geodesys for several agricultural facilities and it is very expensive for them to raise and collect the actual price of this legalisation. We also mentioned this earlier to the predecessor of the minister, and now we can also get the minister to find a way and, for example, make a contract. The ministry could create contracts or catalogues such as some geodesys, authorised engineers, or architects that would offer more favourable legalisation prices. And there's a possibility, and why don't we, as a state or ministry, come out that way. This would be neither cheating nor unfair competition, but for example a catalogue of those who would offer it could be made, for example, the ministry could offer them on the Ministry's website as those who will at lower prices do such services as what there is free legal aid. And lawyers do that. Why don't some architects and geodetics do it? Well, I think in this, given that competition is big enough to probably find those who would do it for a certain number of jobs. And when you mentioned the question of concrete and that first amendment of law there is one topic that is not mentioned, which is the subject of supervision in the performance of particularly public works.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31713	Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31714	Here's an esteemed colleague. First I have to correct you. So if it's my style then it's definitely personal. He can be the only person. Okay, but you said it yourself. But aside from that. I also purposely opened this topic of the chamber not only architects, not only engineers of construction, engineering, but it's a matter of all chambers, so that it provides services or works projects. So, all these chambers with that mandatory membership fee other than the Agricultural Chamber because most of them here voted not only for that agricultural chamber to have probably peasants under control. So they all have a certain price list of their services. And if even one member in this case the architect, the engineer of construction, gives his service under the price list of chambers, then he gets kicked out of the chamber. It shall even be withdrawn from the licence to carry out that type of activity, regardless of which, even in a public tender. There are also technical surveillance services, and as far as legalization is concerned, I'm sorry that it's turned practically into a pre-election struggle, but I think we should have brought it. This law allows for legalisation, but if we had to pass a law that would also not transfer that great responsibility to local self-government, but that would first and foremost be socially sensitive. And in that law there would certainly not be fairies and pools, but they would be our chickens, pigs, and here I don't mean those farms built in the center of the village with over 5,000 squares.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31715	Time's up. Second replica, the esteemed Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31716	Thank you. Dear counterpart Vinkovic has already said that the HDSB Club really supports these two laws because they are laws that comply with the EU. However, and it is good that we also welcome the fact that Mrs. Minister is here today, so not only has she sent one of her representatives, but she is here alone to point out what Croatian citizens really are, and especially the citizens who are engaged in agriculture. And then it's clear our interest in Slavonia and Baranja is also interested in this legalization problem. That's why it's a good thing you pointed that out. I welcome your efforts not only to collapse, so to avoid the possibility of collapse. And it's a good thing your deadlines are moved. But the fact is that when deadlines go by if we don't allow the legalisation of illegally built objects, we come into a situation where today we tear down objects that are 20 years older than the older Croatian state. And the last legalization was '68. A year. So not to mention how many of these objects died during the Homeland War, so people later built after without building permits, that's all true. It should be paid, but it should be a symbolic price to allow people to use EU funds because without legalised facilities they will not be able to do so. You're trying to do it, but I'm not sure that you have support in the SDP, because people are already saying to each other that all the luck is that there was no SDP in ancient Rome, because today tourists would not have anything to see when they visited Rome. Therefore, try to help and find a solution to this burning problem, above all, for farmers and small craftsmen, especially in Slavonia and Baranja, then solve it in a way that the citizens will be able to handle.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31717	Replication response, esteemed Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31718	Well, here's dear colleague Buric, and this debate and opening of this problem is neither an attack on the ministry nor a respected minister, but we simply want to talk about problems in the House. Now we're smarter, practical months, two degrees in the law itself. And we see what problems are right on the ground that people are simple, and so I'm talking about those normal citizens of Croatia who are not tycoons who have not illegally built villas with swimming pools, jacuzzis, saunas and I don't know, but therefore people who have lived normally since their work have either been able to upgrade their living space, build certain economic buildings, and who at this point I would say are between hammers and anvils. The problem was mostly transferred to local self-government. The local self-government must find an exit practically so that I would not say free from paying the municipal contribution but to go to the citizens, and in particular release everything that is for the purpose of production, economy, economy, look and have a sense of socially endangered practically towards the entire population in those units of local self-government, but also to warn about everything that happens when the necessary paper is issued where a citizen is going to pay almost 3,000 kuna for that situation plan, for the geodetic footage. Because it's the price of a geode, there's no less. It can't be any less. And that's the biggest thing and the biggest problem exactly is the water contribution that is even bigger than the total municipal contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31719	Time's up, so you can continue this most interesting debate inside the club. And now we will hear the views of the HDZ Club and the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31720	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, for the honor of Madam Minister with her associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the adoption and amendment and addition of the Act on Architectural Engineering Affairs and Activities in Physical Planning and Construction, as well as the proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Construction Products with the Final Proposal of the Law. We will maintain for a number of reasons, primarily in the light of the fact that, in its introduction, Ms. Minister, if we first talk about the Law on Architectural Engineering Affairs and Activities in the spatial arrangement and construction of these amendments and additions to the laws, we are practically harmonising the existing law with the 2 European directives governing the recognition of professional qualifications, i.e. services on the internal national Croatian market, when it comes to activities relating to spatial planning and construction activities. Before I say anything about this, the basic law that we are amending today was passed, i.e. it entered into force on 1 January 2009, and with this law is also practical, i.e. de facto the reform of spatial planning and construction in the Republic of Croatia, which the reform is surrounded by the then adopted Law on Spatial Planning and Construction, which I hear, and also the confirmation by the Ministers that this government intends to change into the Ministry in a way that from the existing law that has united the spatial arrangement and the construction of which one law is now practically entered into the making of two new laws. One that would refer to spatial planning on the other hand to the new Construction Act. What is then possible for this original Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction, and what is important for today's topic is that from then on, from a chamber that was in existence and related to the Chamber of Croatian Architects and Engineers in Construction it is possible to form 4 chambers, Chamber of Architects, Chamber of Engineers of Engineering, Chamber of Engineering and Chamber of Electrical Engineering. Afterwards, it is clear that all individual chambers have continued to work and that their work has certainly justified the adoption of the original Act on Architecture and Engineering Affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction. Now this amendment, as we have said, is being brought into line with two European directives, allows one authorised architect, who could have had so far and under the existing law only one office can now have more offices. I must admit that clearly when it comes to the organisational form of providing architectural services. When a public-project society or a limited-responsibility society is established, then I have that reach in which the company or office is doing more architects, clear, acceptable because with this amendment and we allow it to be authorised instead of legal, there is now a person as it is written in the article itself. However, as much as I try, it is not clear to me how and what this amendment of the law is going to enable an authorised architect who does his job as a natural person who therefore does these jobs in a professional way and is an employee himself, that is, in his office. Now that he will have the opportunity to have more offices for me to admit, I don't know what will enable this authorised architect to do now, whether he will now, with the possibility of several offices in Croatia, be able to report to some competitions that the law allows him to compete with himself with several offers, right? I think it's important for one, one authorized architectural office or an authorised building engineer's office, that nothing in my opinion can change. And I, here, and maybe I don't understand the status in which an authorised architect can have more offices, but I repeat that it's understandable to me, if it's about a company doing business, architectural affairs, it's clear to me, if there's a public-project society, etc. etc. On the other hand, I welcome the eradication of the rules under which our architects, after 6 months of suspended work, would have lost the right to carry out the work and the activities of authorised architects and authorised engineers, because if we hadn't done so, our authorised engineers in spatial planning and construction would have been deprived, in an unequal position, compared to the fact that after the first one, after the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full membership in the EU, these jobs would have been able to be carried out by foreign engineers and then the provisions that would have been shut down would have put out the possibility of carrying out these activities because they had not participated in the Croatian market for 6 months. Either way, it would lead our engineers into a privileged position, into an unfavourable position. Since there were words in the public, before the ministry went into making this amendment and supplementing the law itself, I have knowledge, information that the Minister of State certainly knows because the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Architecture Engineers has made several remarks, an objection to the existing law and which they have asked for further law itself, the basic law is amended to then discuss their observations. Since this is indeed a technical change of the law itself, it was really not difficult for the ministry to make these changes, and for 1 year and 2 months it has passed that the ministry is already functioning in this system. If you can tell Madam Minister whether a new law is waiting for us, and especially what it means for these remarks, the suggestions made by the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Architects, whether they will be an integral part of this new law that you have also announced that after the completion of this strategic amendment and accession to the legislative regulation relating to spatial planning and construction. As for the second law relating to amendments and additions to the Law on Construction Products, we will also support this law because it practically and simply allows the Government to adopt a regulation to enable the Republic of Croatia to join full EU membership, thus harmonize our legislation with the EU acquis and allow the transitional period adopted by amending the regulation at EU level, or at EU level. And the fact that after that, the law itself will have to be amended as you yourself have said about those construction products for which there is no uniform regulatory framework at EU level, i.e. for the unharmonised area of construction products. And it's clear that it should be supported. So, in conclusion, we will support both laws. It seems to me that in these times when investments in the private sector were lagging behind, investments in the Republic of Croatia and when investments were almost stopped, not only in the public sector, when investments in the private sector stopped, that many Croatian architects, construction engineers were practically out of work and that few and that one office they had, so that something in particular would not give them the opportunity, which will now open more offices. I must say that it has helped them to pass the Law on dealing with illegally built buildings because a large number of architects, builders, geodesy is in the Republic of Croatia through the fact that very short deadlines for the law of illegally built buildings, buildings in the Republic of Croatia, that it has provided them with an additional source of earnings, that through this law they have certainly found ways to work because a large number of architects and engineers of buildings, and certainly also geodesy practically, given that there are no larger or smaller projects, investments in the Republic, that this law has allowed them to now, I would say live through this time of crisis and time recession. But since, here we are talking about the protection of the profession, everything that the chamber was of architects, there were builders, there were geodesys meant to strengthen that profession in the Republic of Croatia. I must say that I am surprised and surprised that the Ministry of Spatial Planning and Construction has been on a voluntary basis, according to the adoption of the Law on Strategic and Investment Projects in the Republic of Croatia, because if this law was passed in its own form and which was addressed to the public debate, I think that this would practically mean a rasomone in the overall spatial-planned documentation in order to devalue, in my opinion, absolutely everything that has been done to the positive legislation in the Republic of Croatia to establish order in the Croatian space as the most valuable economic resource. I think it is precisely your ministry, Madam Minister, that should have stood in defense of all that you have done with your work over the past year when it comes to the arrangement of space in the Republic of Croatia, the arrangement, the adoption, the adoption of any spatial plans to arrange the counties, or the spatial plans of urban planning, or the municipalities, or any obligations arising from these laws to bring about urban planning arrangements in detail. An investment cycle in the Republic of Croatia should be allowed, but such a cycle cannot go to the detriment of the destruction of Croatia's space, which is precisely these laws on spatial planning and construction, and all those other strategic and implementing documents that come from this law protect, defend that editing of space. We will be very soon, I hope, through perhaps this session we talk about a state of space in the Republic of Croatia where we will see that it is precisely through the adoption of legislation that has forced all counties, cities and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia to develop their spatial plans and today it is good that there is not a single city in the Republic of Croatia that has not adopted its own spatial plan as a basic spatial document that we have managed to reduce today's building land surface by 15% compared to the area of building land that was in the spatial plans of the former municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, those large 105 municipalities that were before Croatian independence. Therefore, by insisting that the legal rules are respected, that the obligation to produce spatial planning documents is respected, primarily strategic but not less important and implementing documents we stand in defense of Croatian space because of this, as I said, I expected and expect from your ministry, Madam Minister, that such laws that go below the level of spatial planning of your ministry and government do not make it impossible because it is certainly not a good way to do so. Not to mention the inequality that would have been passed in the Croatian society where some investors would have had a shorter way to invest than an average Croatian citizen. So to conclude, I support this bill. I repeat, I don't understand what an authorised engineer is going to get with it, who only has one office, what he's going to be able to have two now, I don't get it. I understand for those who can open branches, drive or already what we're going to call out, which is usually some kind of company or legal person, so on the other hand, if you can further explain to me, but I say by now that I have knowledge I support one and the other law, so the HDZ Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31721	Now we'll hear three replicas first. First respected Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31722	In your presentation, you mentioned that architects in the Republic of Croatia had a short deadline for making those necessary documents to legalise illegal objects and that it was once an opportunity to say something and earn money. And indeed, in these little over a few months, maybe a year and a few days in all, indeed, there was one aid for these people. They are simply missing on the market given the major problem of illegal facilities in the Republic of Croatia. But what we have today, data for the last 20 days, legally legalized, filed requires 86 thousand 744 and most concerned by the 32 thousand who already have a solution to remove 101 thousand and 750 have not submitted a request at all and should have gone to 31.12. and now there is a problem. And I read from some media that the Ministry of Protection is thinking about introducing a term of permanent illegal buildings and a new imposition on these permanent illegal buildings with which to pay means taxes on illegal buildings indefinitely until these people decide to legalize. So the question arises and we talked about a total of 170-250 thousand let's say possible illegal objects in the entire area of the Republic of Croatia and see that there might be a hundred thousand by the deadline that will be with 150 thousand buildings? Have we entered many ways of treating Croatian citizens? Some immediately set off, some waiting, and there are those who are not at all interested, and when we see an item of the Ministry of Protection that they have only a million kunas to tear down. Of course, there is a question of what will happen to all the illegally built objects in the space that remain and after they pass all the possibilities for legalization.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31723	The replica corresponds to the esteemed representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31724	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. There could be a lot of talk about legalisation, about the deadlines that are really short when it comes to not only applying but also meeting the obligations that these laws have put before illegal builders, and that for a short time on the other hand, it clearly gives extremely much work to both geodetics and builders and architects. It also clearly depends on the size of a building that is legalized or legalized. The fact is that it is necessary to understand the people who built them illegally because that society and the state did not understand them would not pass a law on dealing with illegally built buildings. Of course we need to understand but we need to understand the fact that this procedure, regardless of what the state has written, is a very low fee to keep that facility in place, that still, with a municipal contribution with a water contribution with the costs of working out a geodetic lab and a project, and everything that needs to be done under the law is expensive. If the state had done its job not only in the part that it had prevented illegal construction, which was due, but it was not, we said what reasons led to lawless construction, but that it had acted under another law, which is that every 5 years it was harmonising the situation on the ground, updated the situation on the ground and the cadastrian and land books, then a very large number of these illegal builders would have been based on the very fact that these objects recorded in the catastrus and the land book were free of what we were talking about. Therefore, the state did not fulfil its fundamental obligation under the Real Estate Cataster Act, which is that every 5 years in urban areas every 10 years outside the construction areas it is obliged to coordinate a cadastrian and land book with the situation on the ground. That would be possible and would solve these problems that are today...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31725	Time for colleagues Bačić you are probably right to talk about illegal construction for a long time, if at least it were the subject of our agenda, but it wasn't. So I suggest to those who would like to talk about proposing that agenda point, we will be happy to participate in it. But for now, most kindly, I'm asking you to keep our rules of procedure that way. Second replica, respected Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31726	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Bačić you are well directed since you were Minister of Construction, I actually asked you a question in the form of a replica. Is it possible, as has happened so often and even in individual cases, that a designer who is designing from his house to be both a person and a supervisory authority? I have an opportunity to hear about the school gaps that are now under construction in Pokkraj and the Ministry of Education is an investor and here happens the designer is also a supervisory authority. On the other hand, even though we said here and from the vice president that we're not going to talk about legalization, but it really needs to be realized that this time is the real El Dorado for geodetic, architectural, building, therefore, offices like all sacred florists, it's just about time that their El Dorado is here now. Now, I'd like it when this legalization process is over that they survive and do their job still with a certain profit as it is expected for highly educated people who do their job. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31727	The replica matches the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31728	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I also agree with you that we should have this debate that it should be in line with the topic or agenda point and that it would be good if we were not satisfied with the specific law on the treatment of illegally built buildings that we should then propose a item of the agenda. But you should agree with me, too, that such a point would come to me from the opposition when all the conditions and deadlines that are set out in the original law and provided for. As for Mr Grubisic's questions, I do not know which building and project it is, but the law makes it clear who can be an authorised designer who can be an authorised supervisory engineer. I should therefore see exactly what this is about, but clearly that the very law sets out the criteria and conditions for who and when can for which buildings that are sized and do the project and conduct supervision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31729	Third and last replica representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31730	Thank you. So you're Mr. Bačić boasted that on these spatial plans the total area of the building plots... construction of the building surfaces was reduced by about 15% compared to the state before. And do you know whether as much as the total possible grossly developed area is reduced, or the maximum building capacity in these areas, is as much as I know in the areas of municipalities and cities, and if the percentage of construction areas are reduced, the possibility of construction or construction is increased, and in fact, they are mostly, regardless of the reduced construction areas, the overall increased building opportunities and the construction of these spaces. So I'm not sure how much your spatial plans have brought any shift at all. And here a very well touched issue of supervision in construction, I think that supervision is one of the incredibly important things that is one of those links in public investment that neither the previous government nor the present one has even started to deal more seriously because the spray of investors and supervision leads to 100% safe corruption and those major malversions that we have encountered about public works in the Republic of Croatia. I don't remember last time any court epilogue in which one of the supervisors was prosecuted in public works. Also, as long as the prices of public investment are one building of a single square wall, if the investor is public five times higher than it is if the investor's account is private until then something rots in the state of Denmark, and in how long when the inflow of the concrete inlet is really not controlled as otherwise there is no one who really sees how many of those batteries are in that concrete and put up until then public investments will be at these prices as they are now.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31731	And this replica corresponds to a colleague named Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31732	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Djurkovic, I wanted to say one thing and that is a better spatial plan than any other. That was why I said it in my debate. And referring to this Law on Strategic Investment Projects, which the law would allow for certain projects to be implemented without the development of implementation plans such as urban planning, and therefore I said that this should be insisted, that the Ministry should insist on not allowing any investment and any construction that would not be prescribed by spatial plans of individual cities, or municipalities. And I think there's still a lot of construction land in Croatia. According to current spatial plans of all cities and municipalities in Croatia, all of them could be built to live around 6.5 million people, and the Croats are 4 million and 200, 300, as many as there are. So, I just wanted to say that by now through law enforcement, the construction of spatial planning documents has been reduced these construction areas and that's good. And the fact that in certain units of local self-government, and yet there are legal limits, it is necessary to determine what are the building factors. Every spatial plan should be seen, but all these spatial plans were adopted on the basis of higher order spatial plans, either county or later, with the consent of the ministry. So my request was, my request was that the Ministry would not allow any investment projects that were practically made, unsettled if I could say spatial planning documentation and preservation of space in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31733	Now we're going to hear another individual debate from a respected colleague of the Golden Comadines.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31734	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. Here I was in the dilemma of missing the subject first or going on the subject, so I'll go on the subject first. It is that this article, i.e. the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Architectural and Engineering Affairs, in a way I am obliged to say as chairman of the Committee, we had guests on the board, and these were people from the Chamber of Transport Engineers who are looking for working legal status with other engineers, meaning architects, engineers of engineering, electrical engineering and buildings that are now not in this law. Well, here's the public doing, and there's the minister who answered, so I believe she'll say it in the final word, that it'll be arranged when the roof law is done, and these laws subsistently come out, and that it didn't say that it would certainly be done positively, but that it would be arranged, so it would be good to hear eventually because of these people whether they can be in that society or can't and can't because it's not the first time that traffic engineers are looking for a status like the others do, they also have their own chamber as well, etc. I'm saying this is the law, these two laws are practically about bricks or not to say concrete and iron and engineers, and they're not about illegal construction. And the truth is, engineers have something to do with this illegal construction because they are now most often involved in legalization projects or doing these footage of the situation, etc. When it was that law I think I was saying it and I'm going to repeat it here, I think it's a shame that we didn't put in more fees for illegal construction, for that legalization, and for a larger municipal fee or water contribution, to pay for some criminal story. I can't understand at all the topics and the thesis and the people who say they had to build illegally. Well, who had to build it illegally? In Croatia, there are far more construction areas not yet built today, there is an undeveloped construction area. True, not all of these objects that someone thinks are wrongly built as without permission, they have a license a huge part of the objects has added a floor or has added a veranda or added some kind of devil, meaning that he basically had papers but has broken the project, has violated the scope of the permit or former construction or now these as it is now called, has another name. I mean why... the price, because no one's ever legalized those builders now that they're legalized he hasn't gone up or cheaped them the price of a geodetic or the price of that designer who went out on the field. These are full market prices, so the private sector that the lawless builder must engage to hand over the papers has charged all his, and the public sector has forgiven I don't know how much, half, a third, two-thirds and yet that punishment is actually symbolic. So I don't know what kind of message we're sending as a legal state to say that people had to build illegally to settle their housing issues. No, please. That's what I wanted a little past the subject, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31735	I'm sorry that my requests and cries to stick to the subject have no results, no echoes, but what can we do? We have two replicas on this exhibit. First, dear colleague Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31736	Comrade Komadin, in the last part of your speech, you complained of being expensive, let's say to these ordinary people who have sinned in lawless construction and the public sector who fired the big money that he could have taken. However, the facts say what I said, that the estimates were about 250 thousand illegal objects in the Republic of Croatia, and that 86 thousand so far have been made by demand, and the problem arises at the time of the sub-capacitation of the professional staff, and we have 762 geodesy engineers in the Republic of Croatia, 2391 architects and 3355 building engineers who every year can make up the most 70th of such out-of-state recordings, which is simply impossible in that time period to expose all of what we would like or could do. And indeed today you can't find any building engineers to build for you so that I don't know how much you're looking for that huge legalization of your own facility and that's the problem we warned you about. And now we have a law that allows more offices. The question is, do we have more personnel, that's what might have to be answered, and how do we get to that same frame to solve this issue of illegal construction? I'm more worried about the other part, the lack of investment. I come from a place that's a tourist destination. In the last year, we've always had 20-30 buildings in construction over the past few years, last year we didn't give any construction permits. It's all stopped.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31737	The replica matches my colleague Zlatko Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31738	Well, I'm glad you actually confirmed what I said. True, the scope of the case and the number of perpetrators does not comply with the time limit in which it must be. But you know as well as I do that the request is actually submitted enough, so in time, you'll complete it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31739	And the last replica, Agent Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31740	Dear colleague Komadin, here you have proved that the currentity of the topic simply inevitably leads to us talking about this subject at this point in the agenda. But I have to admit, I can't help but wonder that you should have raised the price of municipal compensation. Look, I don't know how familiar you are with the situation in our villages. Do you know that more than 90% of social homes, homes of voluntary fire companies even churches that were restored after the Homeland War were built without valid documents. We if we were to burden ourselves now, if we were to say we should... We have, what are we going to bring down the social homes that were built in the villages? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Are we going to tear down the homes of voluntary fire departments? If we're going to tear the churches down again, it wasn't enough that the Chetniks did it, but we're going to tear it down too. So if and it's owned by the local self-government unit. And now imagine in the area of one city or municipality in Slavonia and Baranja, which has 8 suburban settlements, no home is legally built, or has all the necessary documentation. This city or municipality for the next four years in the next term should do nothing but spend money to pay for the cube as much as it is... for what's already in office for 15 or 20 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So you need to watch real life. This should be simplified to make it possible for citizens, not only for private facilities not to be left without a roof over their heads, but also for villages not to be left without DVD homes and without social homes and without churches.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31741	Time. And the final answer to the last line and the esteemed Golden Komadin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31742	Mr. Buric, before I started politics for 10 years, I was the head of construction and ten years of commercial construction director, so I know what I'm talking about. And what did the churches mention? I don't know why they would tear down our churches. Who would tear down churches? I don't know what kind of churches. Churches are probably built with God's help, right? So I guess they're all legal. I wasn't talking about the price for the legal builders. I was talking about the lawless ones. If you did, if you were building a legal house, you paid 100% of the utility fee for why an illegal legalizer pays 50%. He needs to pay 100 for what you paid and another 100 fines. That's what I was saying.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31743	Okay. I have no choice but to conclude this debate now. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31744	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on Architectural and Engineering Affairs and Activities in Spatial Planning and Construction, Emergency Procedure, First and Second Reading, P.Z.E. No. 271. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the Government's representative to plead. Dear Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning Anka Mrak Taritas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31745	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31746	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 121 votes for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Architecture and Engineering Affairs and activities in spatial planning and construction, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31807	And now we move on to the next item of the agenda. I'd like to thank the honorary minister with her co-worker. And the next item of the agenda is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 216. The proposer of the law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Minister of Justice Mr Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31808	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs, so this is a second reading. I'm just going to briefly point out the differences compared to the first reading that was in front of you. We've been on board these days, so we've been through it in a lot of detail. So, the first change we've decided on is the burden of proof. In special cases where we've seen the possibility of abuse. Namely, it's about the next one. In the case of a party, the defendant argues that a particular business would have been carried out, or goods delivered and, at the same time, through a pre-tax account, had been accounted for and received from the State. On the one hand, the state received a return before tax and then, in the court proceedings, claimed that it was not in the accounting records, etc. And that's unfortunately happening. It's a large area of abuse. That's what we're being shown in practice, and that's why we're going with that change between the two readings. With this change, we're going to introduce more order and avoid situations, so one person claims she didn't do anything, that she didn't owe anything, and at the same time she got paid back from the state. The second thing concerns the costs of the procedure. There have been a lot of speeches here about how many citizens, parties, are burdened with the costs of proceedings, litigation, and this process simply takes a long time. As you know and accepted in your first reading the concentration of the procedure. What we are building here to link this concentration of the process to the costs of the procedure. So here are the rules according to which a limited number of actions will be able to charge a limited cost. So this will lead to the cost of litigation of litigation procedures. That's what this change is all about. The next amendment concerns as you know again because of the concentration of the procedure. We have prescribed that the deadline for, therefore, to move from the publication of the verdict and the handovers to the appeal deadlines. However, in order to avoid the burden of parties who may not want to come to court, they are not from that place, we here predict that these judgments will be published on the court's website. So that's how the party can get to them, but she knows her deadline's going. That again something we saw from practice that might make it easier for people. Next thing you know, we're changing the provisions on settlement, we want to encourage an extra-judicial solution to disputes, so alternative ways of resolving disputes. I will announce to you here amendments to the Government that I will not present now but which will also concern the peace, will be before you. And the result is discussions on committees. So these are the changes we have. There are still some technical changes that are proposed on the committees, which we have adopted, which will be through the amendments to the Government given but these are the important differences between the first and second readings. So, the litigation process, the concentration of the procedure, the shorter the process of citizens, the faster they get a service and the cheaper, better legal certainty and the whole change in philosophy of previous behaviour. This is not a law that protects the system, but a law that protects those who use these systems, so citizens. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31809	I thank the ministers. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Then I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. The first is the SDP club and the distinguished representative Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31810	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary and Mr. Associate, Assistant Billic, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP Club will support the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Procedural Procedure. The Law on Procedural Procedure has changed all these last years to me for more than 10 years, and each of its changes has been aimed at speeding up the process and disabling all those abuses which unfortunately all the participants have done. It is good and it is something to cultivate and what this law has changed, and there have been different political options and combinations in these coalitions, this law has always been passed, or the law, all changes have been made by an absolute majority, or almost all those present. This tells us how we are all aware of what our citizens experience during the long-standing litigation. And there are almost no MPs regardless of which club he was from and which he was particularly concerned about and was focused on no calls from the citizens, that there are no complaints that the proceedings take too long. We have often witnessed that unfortunately longer than human life, or from one of the litigators, he was either a prosecutor or a defendant. What is the role of the state, i.e. the authority of the proposing body, i.e. Governments and us as legislators to give to the judiciary, to give the judicial authority all those tools that will allow all abuses to end. So, as Mr. Minister said in his introduction, presenting this proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, it is precisely because it strengthens the position of the judge, which puts the judge to the master of the courtroom but the greater powers require even greater responsibility. It was he who was responsible for the implementation of this law and for the discipline of all participants were those parties, those other participants i.e. Witness warlocks or some other third party in the process. Therefore, they are obliged to behave in the way these amendments are, that is, required by the law, and above all by respecting the deadlines. All this will lead to, as the minister said, a cheaper trial because the concentration of the proceedings also allows for lower costs for both parties regardless of the outcome of the proceedings, because the cheapest procedure if it takes too long is also too expensive for the participants of the proceedings and for the state itself. So, a whole series of institutes that went missing from the very procedure, which proved to be, say, a standstill procedure that used to be a tradition was our legal that there was this standing still. Unfortunately, however, citizens were due to rest, and even when the Institute of Peace did not apply itself and the procedure was still in drawers, still on the calendar and never came to an end, which eventually harassed the participants themselves. So, that's over. However, what should be pointed out in particular that the Law on litigation will also remain a mere letter on paper if, therefore, the Ministry also proposes the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council. So, the application of this law depends largely on how much and what changes it will be, I think they are solid and we have already processed them on almost all committees that speak precisely about the consequences that individual participants have. Of course, this law speaks of consequences unless the prosecutor and the defendant strictly adhere to their obligations. So that they are already in debt at the preparatory hearing as a prosecutor is obliged to contribute all the evidence, we have witnessed that and the prosecutor is often sloppy in his application so he file a lawsuit and has not filed any evidence. Like there's time just to catch the line and wait for his lawsuit to go as soon as possible. This is an unserious approach which was at the very beginning of such requests the defendants were the exception and such lawsuits. Over time, however, almost no longer just the defendant who avoided his obligations during the proceedings but also his assistants acted sloppyly in the process. And on the other hand, the court either didn't have enough power or they were acting a lot of conformists and they weren't, and I'd say the judges didn't want to take over the role that had been imposed on them so far by the Law of Prosecution. Now, this law, and the one we're about to discuss soon, comes to an end, so breaking any deadlines regardless of whether they're being instructed or too involved in losing the right, but in any case, the party, and the judge himself, is having a consequence. The judge will be responsible for overcoming such deadlines and disobeying those deadlines is what makes it more effective for one party or another, knowingly or unconsciously in front of the State Judiciary Council because such one conduct makes it a serious violation of duty and will be sanctioned before the State Judicial Council. Also, I said something earlier about costs, so we are also witnesses especially to those who have the privilege of representing the state, simply sending out submissions that are empty, which contain nothing new, which already does not fit in the file, just to get a fee, a reward, and it ends up. So it is the judge who, this is resolved by the provision of Article 18, who said, "The court will, when deciding on the costs of the proceedings, determine only the costs necessary for the handling of the case and regardless of the outcome, on the outcome, on the success of the case." It is equally interesting that the provision of Article 40 will not, in one court case, discuss in a court dispute certain facts which have been held before another court by the same court in some other cases, other species and on another claim, i.e. on the basis of the case, and there is sufficient and good news that the Ministry recognises, where they are, of course, in cooperation with the judicial authority. What were the brakes and what were the abuses? Of course. that this has all been blasphemed, blasphemed by the judicial authority, and the judicial authority cannot carry out its business provided for by the Constitution and by the laws without the trust of the citizens. We are all aware that it has been rocked, and it is this instrument that is now given to the judicial authority, the judges to be truly lords of the courtroom, that they are not afraid to use their powers, but rather that not using those powers has the consequence of and answering to the state's judicial council. It will undoubtedly contribute to the affirmation, the reputation of the judicial authority at the end of the satisfaction of the citizens, because the judicial authority and all that the legislative authority has made to decide on the highest human values, their property of their freedom, their demand for money in the most important sense is precisely the fact that in return, responsibility is sought. According to that old principle that's been given more than he's been asked to. I repeat once again that the judges, the judicial authority has often objected to the legislative authority, and that is true that according to our Constitution and by law, the executive authority is obliged to make it possible for all those conditions to be made available so that the judicial authority can function uninterruptedly. It was the promoter who made sure that all these provisions put forward, which are not impossible conditions, because we have often had some conditions that have been imposed on any other branch of government, whether or not citizens, were impossible to implement. And then when those who are invited to do something and are unable to do something, then they do not do what was possible so far. Now clean bills, long love, this law, the final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure of Judges is going, giving good tools, forcing them once again to be lords in the courtroom, but therefore their responsibility to respect the deadlines is also required, to respect all those cautels, all those conditions that are laid down by this law and designed precisely to speed up procedures, but that does not mean speed does not mean speed either. Because all those actions that lasted for years, they weren't made better, on the contrary, the longevity of the proceedings guaranteed bad decisions. Thus, here the speed expected is based on the principle of that Roman rule of Quito given by, who quickly gives, twice lasts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31811	Thank you. This exhibition is being held by a respected representative, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31812	Dear colleague Anticevic, I fully agree with what you've been saying. You said this law on litigation is a good tool for judges, but there's one condition if the system works, so if the system works. You spoke in the introduction of the court's will, the question is, why were these self-willed judges allowed? You said one sentence the courts didn't have the strength, probably to end the will of these judges. The question is, why? Just because the justice system didn't work, which wasn't working systematically, everything was left to individuals. If there are criteria, the criteria were only on paper, they were not applied in practice or rarely applied in practice. They can't be exclusive. They're rare. That lords of the court, those real judges won't be afraid to use those instruments they've now received. They will be the true lords of the courtroom. The question is I'm more concerned about what's wrong with those judges who are going to abuse these instruments if the justice system doesn't work. Now they get these set of laws that I'll talk more about when I speak on behalf of the Club about the law on courts. They're getting tools in one for this government the amazing way I'm going to talk good about. We just need everyone to look together now because it is in the interest of everyone in Croatia to work on the whole system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31813	The replica matches the respected representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31814	So when you make such a good proposal that there may not be a grudge. There's always a question of why it hasn't been applied so far. That's a good question but it's a long story, a long story that would bring us back to the '90s and maybe even before, but it's no use and we're just wasting time. But you're right when you ask a question and that question has to be constantly sharpened more than anyone is afraid of, and I think it's her power to give more power to the judge. And one authority that is certain of itself is not afraid to give such power to the judicial authority. But the question is why they do not use it, they want that authority to decide for themselves who learns in their ranks, who gets promoted and who gets rid of whom. Now, well, he once said our President of the Republic that for the situation in the judiciary, it's not the bad judges, it's the good ones who didn't have the strength to get rid of them. Now that power will have to be found within itself when the political boots have been depriving themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31815	Thank you, too. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDSSB Club Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31816	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final proposal for a law on amendments and amendments to the law on litigation is before us. So we already had a quality debate about the very purpose and being this law in the first reading of this law. What is important to say on the basis of these previous discussions is not only a tool that will give some new opportunities, a procedural legal opportunity to judges in litigation proceedings. First of all, the law should serve citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia to ensure that the procedure that is being initiated under this law is primarily beneficial for citizens, for a more efficient procedure, for a cheaper procedure that will be in the function of the judiciary and for the protection of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia, thereby safeguarding the rights guaranteed by the Constitution and the laws for our citizens to be found before these courts. And these sets of laws that will come after these who are bound. We have made a number of efforts like the Croatian Assembly in the past in all the clubs of the representatives and so on in ours. There is no reason not to support this law in front of the HDSSB club because it is a law that follows the trend of modernisation of the Croatian Court of Justice as a fundamental objective, which is to quickly make decisions in litigation procedures, cheaper procedure for parties, resolving the issue of procedural legal nature in the previous procedure, in preparation, so that the procedure is not delayed for a long period of years, that discussions on litigation procedures do not take long and thus collect proceedings for both parties in the proceedings and for the state itself. What is important and what is certainly to support is the possibility of a peaceful settlement of disputes, alternative methods, means a way for parties to agree on the outcome of the dispute before the litigation itself, and in the litigation process, it is certainly a contribution and dissipation in courts but also a chance for parties to agree in this more flexible way on the outcome of the dispute primarily on those disputes of small value when the disputes of higher value have been examined, this draws different legal consequences. It is also possible that court advisers in the process are therefore no longer relevant to disputes when they can decide up to 50 thousand kuna but 100 thousand kuna. It will also relieve the number of cases and add the possibility that court advisers, of course, with the supervision of a higher court, will make decisions in these proceedings, so up to 100 thousand kuna, which will reduce the number of cases in litigation proceedings, thus discharging the courts, thus making a greater contribution to the overall urgency of the Croatian Court of Justice. It is true that judges are given stronger tools in court proceedings, litigation procedures, judges' responsibilities, strengthened by the new legal framework and this final bill but also given the opportunity for parties to adapt to new systems, which in any case will be a benefit to the parties because they will not delay court proceedings. The granting of powers to trade courts in disputes on the transport of passengers, on navigation and air disputes is also good for the uniform management and further specialisation of judges in the direction of achieving the objectives set, discharging courts. It is the same measure that we discussed first reading, but giving these proceedings into the jurisdiction of the Commercial Courts is also a good solution to the law to make this law more operational, better in terms of voting its basic purpose. A reasonable procedure, a trial in a destructive procedure, is our obligation under the European Convention and the constitutional obligation, therefore, that the procedure does not last long, monitoring the work of judges and courts, evaluations. There were questions we'll see in the laws that follow. The role of both the judge and the president of the courts has changed. New duties have been given, new tools but new responsibilities. It will not be possible for the President of the Court to be the one who is not good at his job, who does not care about the result of the work of individual judges, each of the judges gets their annual assessment and all that has been so far was a little bit of sloppyness in the proceedings and the will of the judges, not having that intention to clear the profession and the judges, these are legal instruments, tools to first of all, to ensure that this reasonable procedure is not only the dead letter on paper and our obligation to the European Convention and constitutional obligation, but that these deadlines are primarily for citizens in these litigation proceedings. The deadline of 45 days, therefore, for the publication and production and dispatch of judgments to the parties shall be so within a reasonable period which is good for the parties. The publication on the court's pages therefore modernisation in the technical sense of courts and the possibility that parties can obtain judgments in a different way than so far, in order to support those measures which will, in the litigation process as well as in other proceedings and laws which we will talk about, first of all, give one new instrument one new norm to our citizens in these proceedings. This law, as I said, has a lot of its advantages, primarily serves as a new tool for judges, will it really be in practice? This law has been amended many times, and we have also had our European obligations to bring the law into line with European solutions and conventions. Whether this will indeed be so, it will depend primarily on the judges themselves and also on the parties in the proceedings and we firmly believe that the law that is before us will primarily contribute to the functioning of the proceedings, the less costs, the concentration of the proceedings and that the parties will not argue for years but indeed this tool in the hands of the judges will be a responsibility for judges and the possibility for parties to the proceedings. and the HDSSB club supports this bill in the final proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31817	Thank you. We have three reported replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here's my colleague Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31818	Well, here's my colleague Salapic, among other things, said I hope this law will really speed up these proceedings because witnesses that many of the participants in these proceedings have long since been said by those cowboys in the Wild West at Bat Hill have never welcomed a final verdict in such proceedings. And it is likely that this law will affect that these procedures will be both much and more economical for the buildings themselves. But we cannot look separately at this law, at least when it comes to economics apart from some other laws. That's for example. That famous law on court seats. Deputy Minister or Minister of the then-Barica Novosel, who has now made an assistant in the State's Attorney's Office a precedent. It wasn't Europe who asked us to rationalise the number of courts in the Republic of Croatia but asked us not to corrupt this judiciary to be more effective. Now how is this going to be cheaper for the citizens when that white man from the monastery has to go to Nashice, when a citizen from Đakova has to go to Nashice? I'm probably gonna have to go a couple of times, and I don't know who else in the court proceedings is because I'm not a lawyer, I'm an engineer for engineering. And what we ask of it, it would be devastating for the people of Nash to go to Giakovo to court as well. And what we require of this government and this ministry to finally analyse this situation and correct what can indeed be corrected precisely for the sake of the efficiency of the judiciary, does not work for the number of courts in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31819	Time. Thank you. We have a response to the replica of counterpart Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31820	Thank you very much, Vice President. A colleague, Vinkovic, is primarily the essence of this law, the concentration of the procedure, a reasonable period of time and savings for the parties. Unfortunately, it happened that some courts in our country with more judges were less burdened than with those courts in Osijek, the Court of Justice of Valpovo, the Court of Nasice, the Court of Justice in Djakov had been waiting for the same procedures for a long time, and for several years some courts were acting until some judges in smaller areas had nothing to do. I was alone for this partial network of courts when it comes to the organisation of courts and the short-term nature of proceedings and the cleaning of cases because some of our obligations towards the EU chapter 23, our large number of cases and the different burdens and burdens of courts have led to a lack of urgency and a failure to comply with the reasonable deadline of the Croatian judiciary. Our commitment to the EU Convention Article 6 was a reasonable deadline, and now what our state guarantees to citizens when they travel is cost compensation. There we had two sides of that blade because we were able to pick quickly the judiciary and a reasonable settlement of deadlines, the cost of the parties, or we could delay some proceedings, so the parties would wait for a long number of years in the larger environments and in the smaller areas their subject could not come to the agenda so that it could not be done within a reasonable time. So it's on the scale. The judiciary is a scale of one another, but if a choice is to be made, it is certainly necessary to choose a faster procedure for citizens and faster dispute resolution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31821	Next replica Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31822	Here's my colleague Salapic's question, so we heard that in the litigation proceedings, the court will no longer have to deliver a decision but that it will be able to publish on the website and that it will begin the same ongoing appeal deadlines. It is interesting that it may not have been taken into account that the Croatian state is not so online and that the proposer of this law has wondered how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have available the Internet. And secondly, when it comes to the court being able to communicate in some way with the citizen of the Internet, and whether a citizen can communicate with the court of the Internet in any way. Whether a citizen has one option to the court or to the state in general to solve any of his claims via the Internet. Neither you can use the internet to contact the MUP or ask for any documents, you cannot contact the court. Can you appeal to the Internet court? So is there a citizen if we are already talking about the Internet any possibility of talking to the state or any part of it? He doesn't have that possibility and the state is asking citizens to appear physically to sign with an official and verify the signature and I don't know what. So again, we put the small citizens and the system in an unequal position, so the state will contact him online, so if he saw if he complained, and on the other hand he never could contact that state or that court in any way or in any way, no court can contact that same internet. And the other thing about trade courts is it's easy to open a company in Croatia today in one way or another for this much or that much kuna, but when it needs to be closed then it's not so easy to close it anymore. Maybe you should see how you are and that's just one part of the business courts. Maybe you should see that for a hundred kunas more in this country, the company can be shut down, not just opened.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31823	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, here's a colleague of Salapic's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31824	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Đurović, I think your concern is justified but this is about trade proceedings before trade courts and... delivery of letters by electronic means in communication between trade courts and public notaries because I think it is my intention to avoid the costs of public notebooks in the process and that these costs are being delivered to commercial courts at the very end for the parties themselves. This is the intention of this amendment to the law in terms of savings in the delivery of procedures and the duration of those delivery deadlines. In any case, it is a different practice than it has been so far, to avoid the costs of delivery and the costs of the public notary, to inform the party in a more efficient and cheaper manner of the outcome of the dispute without itself and, therefore, to open a separate box in court where a court ruling can be raised to reduce these costs of delivery proceedings in litigation proceedings if that was the intention of the legislator. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31825	Thank you. And Branko Vuksic, the last replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31826	Dear counterpart Salapic, you said at the very beginning of your debate that the litigation must be beneficial for the citizens. It certainly needs to be useful to citizens, to be useful to society. Of course, if it is useful for citizens, then it is also useful for society because when citizens feel protected and when they know that they will solve their problems in court, society will also work, creating a special climate, a good climate in society. And when society begins to function and have, it means that when society has influence on events, then politics stops pushing fingers into all decisions and those that do not concern them, and so does court processes. In your presentation, you said that these litigation procedures set deadlines. And before the deadlines were set, now they clearly set those deadlines, even more importantly, they always claimed the laws were better, they were better than practice. It's important that these deadlines are respected. Practice doesn't work for us. We can't be thrilled by this law ourselves, we've only got one tool, and you know well we need a master for that tool, and some mastery in the judiciary hasn't been given much. We need to know that there are corrupt judges, that the procedures are difficult for so long and how long it depends on the thickness of the blue envelope, and that clicked on who pays. If we don't figure it out so long as we don't talk about it that way, we won't do anything with the laws themselves. The judges will only become the rulers of the courtroom once we remove those exaculous rulers who pull the strings in the courtroom.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31827	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, Comrade Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31828	Thank you, Vice President. Dear fellow Parliament has brought a firm framework, a strategy for the development of the Croatian judiciary and all those tools. This is not only this Law on criminal proceedings, it is also the Penal Code but also a different role of the State Judiciary Council in selecting the President of the Courts and Judges, a different role of the State School for Judicial Officials, the Judicial Academy. In addition to the laws in line with European Union law, these are also tools and judges themselves must study and learn some new things by their own actions so that it is past time, time of longevity and self-will in the courtroom. He's justified, and I wouldn't be surprised if there were even some of the judges who were unquality in doing their job and who were corrupt. I was a member of the State Judicial Council myself, and I saw how the choice of judges goes according to new regulations, and I'm sure it's much better and stronger than it was before. Much greater responsibility, much greater burden on the back of judges and courts under these new legal decisions, and as much as anyone will endure, how anyone will do it depends on the assessment of the work of judges because the new laws have given these strong instruments that not only do what they want but their work is evaluated. They have as many judgments as they have to make, as well as what is expected of them, which is a reasonable time-limit, what they really do and what they do not do. It's all for their assessment, so someone's inefficient or reluctant to lose the judge's job. So no longer in that system is anyone protected as a face bear so that they can do whatever they want, the fear is justified. And what we all need to agree, if something's gonna be better for our citizens and for the parties in the process... any court proceedings, then that's good, and what's bad is bad and it's not good. This is just one new instrument, and whether it will really be in function as this law provides, and all those we will discuss after it, it is primarily not up to us who brought this framework, but for those who will implement it. But the evaluation of judges, the evaluation of their progress and the control of their work by senior courts, and the only report we ask of the President of the Supreme Court of the Croatian Parliament will certainly contribute to the fact that we have concrete information from the judges themselves. Some object, but I am certainly in favour of the Supreme Court talking to us to know what judges are doing in all levels of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31829	Thank you. And on behalf of the HDZ club Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31830	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Secretary with an assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, the final proposal, as we supported in our first reading, while looking back at some of the institutions that are here in this final text and were not in the first reading. So here's first of all to say that this is actually about one big, systematic, procedural, civil law that's been taken over since actually the former state of '91. And now this is before us the 12th change. Surely, all these changes over the years that were before this House were actually in the direction of speeding up the process, the effectiveness of solving litigation cases. I would say that there was a phase concentration of the process, the introduction of party discipline, the reduction of deadlines, etc. Let's say the 2008 novel introduced this concentration of the procedure on the preparatory hearing for small-value disputes. Obviously, the analysis has shown this well, and that is why today we have a proposal that this concentration of the procedure is actually in place for all proceedings, for all litigation procedures. Therefore, it is now predicted that, at the preparatory hearing, the action must be brought and the answer to the complaint and the proposal of all the evidence that will then be carried out at the main hearing, and as far as disputes are concerned, this moves back further. So, even before the preparatory hearing, all of this must be ensured. Similarly, the ban on multiple suspension of first-degree decisions before a second-degree court, i.e. a ban on colloquial return to a first-degree court only once. This novel of 2011 was arranged for family work-law disputes and disputes before trade courts, and now for all disputes, litigation in litigation. What we warned the board about is I don't know if there will be any government amendments, given that there have been speeches on committees about it, so now we don't really know if any amendments will be fixed. But I'm warning you about article 81 and 373b, respectively. in the second paragraph, it states that if there are important reasons that the second-degree council may decide that certain evidence will be brought before the judge or the President of the Court of First Instance. What is necessary is to ensure that these important reasons do not become a rule and that, just as so far, second-degree courts have often not wanted to deal with the first-degree proceedings, so that they do not now assess that the reasons are always important and that the evidence is then brought before the first-degree court. So there would be some restriction or some emphasis on exceptional or something like that I think should be determined. I also think it's good, and that's what we said in the first reading, an increase in the value of the dispute in which the counselor can prepare a decision, carry out the process as much as we get the information that about 600 advisors in the system will remain in view of the state school for judicial officials who will never have the chance to become judges again, and certainly they are qualified, have a significant experience in the conduct of jobs. For the purposes of disciplining party discipline, therefore, and speeding up the process, a number of deadlines have been shortened by this proposal. What's good and good is that there's still a final proposal, and that's to extend the deadline for responding to the lawsuit. We stress the concentration of the proceedings, since the prosecutor is prepared to press charges because he knows the subject of his suit and has prepared himself for the other party to whom this may be a surprise, so he must leave enough time and this is now new, according to this proposal, 30 to 45 days to determine the court to prepare, to respond to the suit and to propose all evidence in his defence. It is also excellent to establish the deadline within which the expert must deliver his findings and opinions because we are witnessing that it has been waiting not for months, but also for years on the founding of the witches and that he has committed the court to deliver to the parties the findings of the witches 15 days before the date for the hearing so that the party can prepare for an indication of the artificial finding. Of course, the introduction of the OIB at each stage of the procedure for accurate identification. We see, we are witnessing these days the terrible tragedies that happen to people because of a replacement identity when they're the same names or last names, that they're being executed over property, and that they have nothing to do with that claim, etc. etc. What I would like to warn you about, which is a minister with quite enthusiasm and somehow I would like to say that he is going to jump through the abuses of many, which is an article of the 40th of this proposal, which complements Article 221 of the final text that he is speaking, this article speaks of proof of what is proved. Whether or not the party's recognition may or may not be necessary and when it can still be proved, that the notor facts need not be proved, that the presummations are not legally proven, but can prove their absence. And now it adds the last paragraph to introduce a special rule in the burden of proof of the absence of demand whose existence stems from an instrument included in the accounting, accounting to simplify. That would be a credible I.D. from the I.D. I believe that there have been a lot of abuses, but I'm not sure it's a good thing that some of them who are malicious or malignancies would be treated, so that the introduction of this provision would actually harm those who are not and who are just ordinary citizens. I warn here that would mean that if someone sues you for the existence of such a single account, payment by account or a copy of a business book, etc. And you say that this service or this job has never been done to you, you'll have to prove it wasn't done to you. Why? Because there are con artists who have already used those invoices as a tax relief. But then this article should be sterilised differently, not that the court can formally request whether this document – the document is included in accounting, accounting, etc. The IRS may already ask the IRS if the defendant has achieved a tax relief after such a correction, and then it should not be proved if he has applied for a tax relief and used it to be a burden of evidence on him, not on which he charges on the basis of an account. Imagine citizens compared to large systems such as telecommunications, etc. and some others who once exhibit such invoices for something that the citizens have never used. This happens in large systems, it happens to people problems both in terms of taxes and tax administration, computers, trombone systems, etc. And now, actually, when someone tells you and sets out an account you've never used anything, you have to prove that you haven't used it, not the one who's charging you that you owe it. I think this is pretty bold, in my opinion, and maybe it's because he's making it difficult for frauds to actually make it difficult for honest citizens to have their process-right situation. Here, so much for that, it's a newspaper. There wasn't one in the first reading. By the way, here's the institute of rest proceedings that this bill also abolishes. I think that's good. If a person has decided to come to court, he must be interested in carrying out his case to the end. As far as it is possible for the parties to resolve their dispute by means of a standstill, therefore in an alternative way and which is an extended provision that the peacemakers in the proceedings before the court must not only be the judges of the peacemakers but that the peacemakers of those on the list and registered in the court, or the ministry may also participate in the proceedings and that such a settlement will have the power of the court settlement. So, also these provisions that are in the law regarding delivery, in relation to disciplining parties on coming to court at the subpoena, I think they're as good as they seem to be very strict like this at first sight. But if we carefully read any party who responds to the call of the court, who receives a call when it is addressed and reacts to it will actually not be in any difficulty because they will be present with hearings and will be informed in time of what is being ordered of it, as well as of the publication and handing over of the legal order. Of course, all delivery provisions for those parties in a procedure which has not been properly notified, so they will not be placed on either the advertisement board or the Internet, etc., this applies only in those cases where the parties who have been properly called do not respond, do not come to the hearing, and then the law said that they will no longer be asked for them, but their duty will be to be interested in what they are and where they are judged. One more thing, in many cases, the minister boldly enters some changes. Here's what I was expecting, because that's what we're talking about, but I don't see anyone thinking about shooting a hearing so that less time to dictate the record. Whoever was in court knows that once the party says so then the judge formulates it in the record, etc., and that all takes time. A long time ago, it has been thought of achieving material technical conditions for the discussion to be recorded and, in that sense, to be even more effective and even faster. And finally, in the light of this final draft of the law, we see that the Ministry of Implementation of this law will need the 200 thousand kunas that have been secured, it seems to me that they have been secured in the state budget. I'd be interested in what exactly 200 thousand kunas will be spent on. Here I don't see, it seems small to me, but here we have no explanation which will cost exactly 200 thousand kuna to implement this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31831	Thank you, too. We have two replicas. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31832	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Lovrin, so first I thought I heard the minister wrong and I was too late to replicate, but I think it's a good thing that you mentioned this pre-account thing, and I think it's a little easier that you on the legal side have a little bit of a mixed tax on added value. Because if I put out an account for you, and I didn't do a favor, I'm a taxpayer of value added tax on that account, and I use it as a deduction for those bills I paid. Hence, it was likely wrong in interpretation or wrong in law. So, I think this has to be cleared up before the final definition, because I repeat, if you put someone's account out to them, you're putting a VAT account on it. And you're bound by that VAT, and you refuse VAT for those bills that you paid. And at the end of the month, you draw the line, you have the input accounts that you pay and how much you pay the VAT on those bills to clear your practically tax balance that month, and for all the bills you've made, you're the obligor. So when you subtract from the right-hand side, that's your tax liability. So it's wrong, Mr. Minister, if you said someone was using a relief if someone put out an account for something they didn't point out, and that's why they're charging him with something. He's a taxpayer. So he's making tax cuts using that bill he's paying. So it was wrong then, look at the phonogram of your speech and you'll see. That's why my colleague, Lovrin, is probably an invited team, so she said the same way, there's no relief, it's not tax relief. The Tax Act, under the Value Added Tax Act, however, is simply a pre-tax battle, is no relief. The relief is where the zero rate is, where the untaxable services are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31833	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Comrade Lovrin, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31834	Thank you very much. My colleague Shuker, I'm not a tax expert, so I'm letting even if I said the term guilty of that relief, but it seems to me that the minister in explanation was saying that in some way this is being misused because people who claim that they're not obliged to pay something by the bill are already based on that obligation from that account, come on, which they claim they don't have some sort of tax charge. I reacted that this 40th and 221th addition, respectively, said: "If the document is included in the accounting-accounting, i.e. tax records, the burden of proof of the absence of demand contained in that document is on the party." So, tax records, so I don't know how many cases where the IRS is just unauthorized, I mean unfoundedly burdening people or burdening them because they've been replaced by an identity or someone put out an account that you've never heard or seen or heard of a service delivered to you. It happens in the real world, and now that he's suing you, then you have to prove that you never got it, and he doesn't have to prove that he delivered you that favor he's looking for money. That's what I'm talking about, and given the right expression I've used around reliefs that I'm not sure, the minister will better explain it for sure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31835	Thank you. And the next replica of Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31836	Well, thank you, Mr. Vice President. So my replica goes more or less in the same direction as my colleagues Shucker, but not on this financial but on the legal side. Namely, I don't share the concern that you have made, because I don't believe there's going to be so many entrepreneurs who will deliberately include in their accounting records, to call them so, false accounts for the reason that a fellow Shucker has just stated, and that's when you make an account, when you quote a VAT on it, you have to pay it as such. So I don't believe that there will be too many of those entrepreneurs who will fake accounts knowing that they have to pay the state tax and then get into some sort of litigation in order to collect their claim, of course, non-existent. So that's where I have to agree with what my fellow Shucker said. And I'd just like to add that the fact that the burden of evidence has been transferred to the side of whoever claims that the demand is missing. It means killing only that the defendant who is here, and often received that goods in a situation where he used it as a pre-tax or when the prosecutor reported it and paid the tax, will have to prove that the service was not done. And that in the vast majority of situations, at least the practice thus showed the opposite case. The services were done and the defendants used the situation which, the court never addressed to the tax administration and never looked beyond and beyond its table, used the situation and spread litigation that lasted years. And let me just add, I can't agree with this part of you where you talked about shooting, because I think just dictating the record is how to make sure that only the important thing gets into the record, not everything that's been said in the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31837	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, colleague Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31838	Well, now you know a colleague what's important in the debate? All that matters is what the parties said, and then it turns out that the judge, even worse, is going to bring something in, and it doesn't bring something in, and then it might get lost somewhere during writing, and the ignorant party won't know exactly how to monitor it and monitor what the judge dictated. So, that's, that's doubtful, but I think everything that's important to the party is, what the parties said at the debate. What you said about delivering the goods, interestingly, if someone delivered the goods, they'd probably have some kind of document that this stuff was received, but if someone said they delivered something to me, and I didn't receive how I was going to prove that I didn't receive it, except to say I didn't receive it. And if there were cases, so do we live in the real world, do you know how many times the tax administration has sent a solution to a person who doesn't have a duty at all, where she estimated something that's from the 50th person's property, and not to say just that. I have a case where for extra insurance, a charged person went into a procedure that no one had ever concluded, never got a card, or spent one extra favor, so this is what we're talking about state bodies as far as possible, what's going on in people's lives. And now they will have to prove that they have never used it, they will have to go to the Croatian Institute to look for lists that they have never spent a kuna on it, that no one has given them anything and they have nothing but to say we didn't get it, that they will prove they didn't get it. But the one who sent them might have to prove power with a delivery, say, some kind of signed or something like that that's common. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31839	Thank you. And final on behalf of the promoter, Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31840	Thank you very much. So, I'm thanking you for your support and I'm just going to address these few things that opened during the debate. So, there were questions about web and delivery, and communication with citizens, not this doesn't mean, this is as it is already said, you've only applied yourself to cases where citizens who could and wanted, could come to court and have been invited neatly, they choose not to, but then power to judgment through the web. So it's the citizens' only decision, but it's not the way they deliver, the way they deliver it is to get him there. However, why should you travel from one city to another if you are willing to withdraw it, lodge a complaint based on it. So that's relief and acceleration, that doesn't apply to commitment, receiving in that way. Because the court had to hand you over there, but you can choose I won't, why spend money and roads from one city to another, I'll read and see what's decided. So it's in favour of the citizens. As for carrying out evidence in front of first-degree courts, of course, we've thought a lot about it and there are at all countries that have no possibility of abolishing as well as returning. However, given our spatial and general conditions in the courts, we have estimated that we must leave to the County Courts for now the possibility of carrying out certain evidence through first-degree courts. This is the reason not only for this which is spatial and so you have the situation again with the citizens in mentioning and rationalising the courts that have been carried out and I agree that in many places there have been errors. But we'll continue with that. And you're going to have a situation where the county courts will be very far away from first-degree courts and now you're forcing citizens to come from a town far away from the County Court for debate if you can hold this debate in a first-degree court that's much closer to the citizen. That's why we left that possibility. Of course it's possible for abuse to occur. It's possible everywhere and you can't prescribe anything because the right isn't such that you can know one and one is always two. However, education in this and insisting on setting new standards will abuse awareness to a minimum, but that is, it is left on one hand because of the situation we now have and also because of the future and present that a citizen does not always have to travel to the county centre where the court is actually present to perform some evidence that may not be relevant. Recording the hearing, it's one topic that's big and most of the legal systems are going towards it. But if we're going to go towards it first we're going to go to the criminal cases to start and we're going to go to the control shoot. So it won't have the power of the record because it takes us some time to change the mentality of the judge who is conducting the debate, so that he adapts himself to not dictate the record himself, but actually listens to what was said afterwards, etc. So we need to do it for a while, and we're creating the terms of the criminal for the control recording, so where it's going to be recorded, but it's not going to be, it's got a proof power, but it's got a terrible psychological, let's say it's introduced by Lithuania and it has a terrible psychological effect on the parties because it's being careful what it's saying and it's being set differently. And that makes sense with the CAP as it is set to go there first. At this point, we don't have technical capabilities yet, but we're going towards it. It's purely technical of 76 this is 19 changes of the CAP, so it's not, 12 is what you said, but since 19 is 19 changes, 200 thousand kuna, it's, we've estimated so much that we're going to have to invest under one in education, two in this web and certain connections that we need, which we have within the system but we're going to have to add to it so that's one assessment. We have the funds in the budget for that. I hope it won't be that much, but I can't guarantee it. You're always doing an evaluation, there's no exact parameters. In the case of the burden of proof, we go by amendment and change significantly what we said and leave to the court in fact the possibility of obtaining information from the IRS on this so that it will not be on the burden of the parties now. So you'll see it through the amendment, but that's what we discussed yesterday, which was discussed yesterday on the board. What may matter to this law as it is to all, but for this particularly important he brings major changes, he brings changes, he will require changes in mentality. I can't guarantee you that tomorrow, or 1.4, when he comes into effect if you vote on him to make radical changes. This is a tool like you said. It's being carried out by people, carried out not only by judges, it's wrong to always put only judges, they are masters of the proceedings, but you also have lawyers who may have here some abuses that have been done with these are being disabled. You've got other parties just like this to be disciplined. This is a message you're going to court, it's a serious thing. The court will treat it seriously, but you have certain duties as a party. It's something that costs. Which costs all of us standing here, paying in the end line, we have a very expensive trial, and that's something that requires seriousness. It doesn't have to end in court. We've been spreading here, and there's going to be something else through the amendments, and I'm announcing an alternative dispute settlement. The idea is there's no modern justice that can deal with anything that makes him want to. This is the one in the package. The other day you had a misdemeanor in your first reading and some other laws that were just going that way. Not everything goes to court and not everything goes to court. We need to get out of court, but if anything comes to court, then we want discipline primarily from the court, but also from the parties, and that's something we need to spread as a message. It won't change overnight. Let us not have illusions because we are in this state that we have not been satisfied with for a long time, and we will not go out for a short time and overnight. This is a tool. This is a good tool. What's wrong with me, and I have to admit what made me saddened when we did this, which has a whole series of countries that we think may be less developed in some things than we are and that have done this a long time ago and with good results, and we're late. If we'd done it a year ago, it would have been good, four years ago, even better, and that way we can go backwards. And it's nothing others don't know, it's no revolutionary solution like that, it just had to be seen, thought and suggested. Here and that's why I'm glad for the support we have but I'm saying this isn't something that's going to bring out a magic solution from the hat and a turning point overnight. We need to do a lot of work on our part on education but both primarily and through these laws that go before you, judges they have to start working differently and start benefiting from what we give them. That's what they're entitled to. It's their duty. That's why they get paid. But we want that and responsibility. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31841	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. First responds Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31842	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, as I was afraid, I think you've entered a sphere where you can't get that information from the IRS. Tax administration can go to the party, make control of it because each party, in accordance with the accounting law and international accounting standards, has to run an accounting for services for exactly how, and material accounting... financially, that we don't strangle colleagues here about it. And if he doesn't have that document in his bookkeeping then he can't charge anyone. The law also defines how many years these documents must be kept. I think there's too much inflating here one thing that's lex specialis laws clearly defined. Because look, if you come to someone and they claim that they delivered something to someone and they're not doing it in material accounting, they don't owe it to them, they don't have any such documents they can't ask the party for anything. He must have had to prove the document, not to prove someone that he did not take something because he was bound by the Accounting Act to keep that documentation for so many years. Because if he doesn't have it when the IRS comes in control, he asks him first where's that item he sold him for why he's not at the warehouse. The other thing is, if the prodo put it out, is that it's paid for by a series of things the party has to have, and you're looking for proof of who doesn't have to have any documents.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31843	Thank you. Next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31844	Thank you very much. Well, Mr. Minister, you encouraged me now that you mentioned the amendments first and second when you mentioned April 1st. So on the amendment, I ask myself whether the amendments to the Government are also covered by this amendment to Article 10. Speaking of the forced collection of fines as it does not delay the execution of the appeal on the fine imposed does not delay the execution, and in the event that the decision to impose a penalty is suspended or a modified person will have the right to pay, or to repay, the non-refundable. It was a matter of interest to settle interest on these amounts which later return, so there is likely to be a solution in some tax regulations. That's what I'm asking you, is that going to be covered by the amendment? And secondly, you mentioned on April 1st but here, looking at this is a process law though, but if I counted well from these ninety articles that refer to the process itself to these procedural provisions 42 will be retroactive application actually be applied to the processes that are under way. I haven't even analyzed what kind of provisions these are, but now if I look at them like this, it's an exception to almost half the provisions. And I'm just asking is it possible that since April 1st, these courts are already in all the existing procedures that may have begun to lead in some other way to jump it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31845	Thank you. And a response to the replica of Minister Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31846	Thank you very much. As for the first to be honest, I'm not sure if we put that on, but I mean the interest as we said yesterday, it's meant to be, but I'm allowed here. As far as this other guy is concerned, it's a procedural law. So we have procedures to which he will fully apply from 1 April. the other will be administered in accordance with the phase in which they are and what can be applied. Of course, the procedure that went into a higher phase is that you will not apply the procedures for concentration of the debate. So that's it. what goes to court since 1 April shall apply all provisions. For those cases already in court, it will be applied according to what stage they are in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31847	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31848	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Procedural Procedure, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 216. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the time limit set for the Rules of Procedure. In accordance with the provision of Article 166. I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I'd like to make a statement about this proposal. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 122 votes for the accepted proposal to discuss amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like a representative of the motion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Honored Minister Orsat Milenić, to explain the amendments. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31849	Mr. President, honourable MPs and MPs. So in this amendment number 1 is based on discussion and discussion before the board, we delete the judge's word, which means that all amendments generally refer to a peaceful dispute settlement procedure, so something we want to settle outside the court. This amendment actually introduces a different way of resolving the dispute, meaning not only in front of the judge that we have seen in practice causing certain problems. So, a peaceful solution out of court. The court shall suspend the proceedings until a decision has been reached.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31850	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please state who's in favor of Amendment number one. Governments of the Republic of Croatia? Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that, unanimously with 123 votes, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been accepted and becomes an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31851	Thank you very much. It is also about expanding the possibility outside the court's peaceful solution to the dispute. We are introducing the possibility of a delay in proceedings, because we have seen that very often in the party's practice we wish, I will not just say a settlement, but find a different solution and now we are actually introducing the possibility that the parties are unanimously asking the court to do so, that the court should stop the proceedings. During the duration of the party's consent, the procedure is in stalemate. If he gets rid of it peacefully, he's finished. If he doesn't, he'll move on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31852	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. I'm closing the debate. No one's answering. Please state who's in favor of Amendment 2. Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that with 123 votes to accept the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia number 2 and thus included it in the final draft of the law. Amendment number 3. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31853	So, the result of the debate we had here in the House is that we explain this provision that we discussed. So about the pre-tax and his refusal and the burden of proof in those cases, that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31854	I'm opening a debate. There are no reports. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number three. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I have determined unanimously with 123 votes to accept amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia number 3 and to include it in the final draft of the law. Amendment number 4. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31855	We proposed him as a result of the debate on the Justice Committee. So it's about the possibility of pointing out the obsolescence that we've explained with this and not having any doubts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31856	I'm opening a debate. There's no need to argue. I'm closing the debate. Please state the amendment number four. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Please, who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that with, unanimously, 122 votes to accept Amendment 4. Governments of the Republic of Croatia becoming an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 5. Governments of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31857	The result of the debate on the Legislative Committee is that we are changing or in order to improve the accuracy of the text.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31858	Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment 5. Governments of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that it is unanimous with 121 votes for Amendment 5. The governments of the Republic of Croatia have thus become an integral part of the final bill. We are moving to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Amendment No 1. to Article 82 of the Honored Minister,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31859	We don't accept. I'm sorry, Amendment One, we accept.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31860	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final draft law. Amendment number two?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31861	Amendment 2 too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31862	Do you accept? It becomes an integral part of the bill. Thank you very much. That's why we've exhausted the amendments. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that it is unanimous with 121 votes to pass the Law amending and supplementing the law on litigation in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31863	We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 217 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities. You've received reports. Is it in the name of the Prime Minister's proposal? Here's Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31864	Thank you very much. So the court law you saw was a lot of controversy in public. I don't know, some of the changes that have been proposed here have practically single-handedly caused a lot of stories. What we have to say is that I am saddened by this law, as you saw in the first reading and debated and saw what all the institutes bring, brings many important institutes from what is said in public. The public was most and almost exclusively talked about in public by the judiciary, there was a report by the President of the Supreme Court in the Assembly, which is actually one very important thing for democratisation, one very important thing that we have a forum and that it is known where the budget is being decided and where it is paid to discuss the results of this. And it's an election move. I'm sad that it's not so recognized, but it's irrelevant. It's not the most important change the law makes. And I'm sorry that the debate may not have raised any other questions that might help to make better solutions. But it's concentrated on this. I don't know why it bothers the authorities, but it threatens them so much that they've only talked about it. So what we're changing is this report by the President of the Supreme Court once a year, will come before you to submit a report. We can pull the parallel with the attorney general because it's going to be done the way it's done, with certain restrictions. It won't be possible to discuss individual cases, it won't withdraw responsibility or not, you'll take it into consideration, but it will be discussed. I will tell you that in our executive power we are in one way looking forward to it as a general good but it is certain that sometimes we will not go well because the judicial authority will have a place to talk about the problems that we may have caused, perhaps we have passed a bad law, perhaps we have not voted or suggested enough budgets for you, therefore we will also be able to talk about it. I'll say that absurd. You've seen the public controversy, and I've been saying it, in the public sphere, the Supreme Court says, objecting, you haven't made our arguments to the MPs, it's not according to the Rules of Procedure, but we've brought them out and they're all... At the same time, they say we will not report, not before the Croatian Parliament, which is completely illogical. So the problem is you didn't get your arguments, but when you need to go out there and talk about this, then we won't. So that's something I think has led to an entire debate in one direction that we didn't need but well. That's one change. Second amendment, determining the number of judges in each court. Big problem, we all know, unfortunately somewhere we have relationships and ten times, for the same salary some judge ten times or less as you look. It's not double, it's ten times. So here we form criteria, primarily inflows and structure of objects, work backlogs and the number of cases that the judge needs to solve in an indicative manner according to the norm. These are the criteria that will determine the number of judges and we think it is important to finally say it in a transparent manner, by which you will know how much is in a particular court of judges. Again, we're not going to settle it overnight because we have people who are appointed, but this is something that we're going to try to streamline through and apply in the future. Second, a framework measure for the work of judges. They are brought by the minister of justice at the proposal of a general session of the Supreme Court. We were thinking about going with a solution to be brought by the Justice Department and we have arguments about it, but here we said let's keep it a general session, they insisted on it, but what we did is we have to do it within a certain time limit. Why? This law and all the other laws you're voting have certain consequences. We want to be able to ask for a change of framework criteria in accordance with the laws adopted, so that it starts to apply immediately in practice, so that we do not know the difference between what we have voted and those criteria that are in force. It's a play. Of course, citizens' performances must be answered, and all we change here is we set a deadline. So the president of the court who received the presentation must respond within 30 days. It happens not only to the judiciary and elsewhere, you know wherever there's no time to never answer, so we're putting a deadline. We had one thing about a session of judicial departments that we thought the current solution touched the independence of the judiciary, which is that there was a possibility that when the council decided something different from the others, the department would stop sending it, and then the department would discuss it and actually give a kind of instructions about the council. Then the question arises to whom he judges, given that judge, or council or department. That's what we're moving now. It's an object delegation. We're introducing an opportunity for the Minister of Justice to make a motion for a delegation. A delegation, as you know, works exclusively by the Supreme Court. Here I'll tell you, last year we're on 36,000 delegated cases, primarily we insist that they be, we don't insist, but we suggest that they be second-degree cases, so citizens don't have to drive from one court to another. These 36,000 are a very important number because it's also delegated from those courts that have ten times as many to those that have ten times less norms, which will solve it faster, and we're going to come up with some unification. The comparisons for, in 2011, we had 8 grand and we were there on those numbers. So this is what we've built up now, and we consider it an important, short-term measure. It can't be a long-term measure, but it's short-term wherever it can be intervened. For example. if the Zagreb County Court has a thousand cases of appeal which can be resolved by another court that is less burdened with why they are not sent there. Next, general session of the Supreme Court. We're giving her one authority that's also in balance with that report, which is to discuss the budget. So when the Ministry delivers them a draft budget... to discuss it and to inform us because it's important for us, information is important to participate in the creation of this basic tool as it will be. In the case of judges, we're precise with everything you've seen that we've imposed on them, etc. here between the two readings, so I'm just saying what's between the two readings, we're precise when we input these information data. It seems irrelevant but terribly important. It is one of the basic tools for managing the system and informing. So that's what we do, redefine professional conditions for judicial advisors and their powers. And here, these are the most important changes compared to two readings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31865	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas. The first one was Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31866	Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I hope so, I would ask you to stop my time if possible. I would like to ask one specific question, so I see nothing here how to solve the problem of the mutually binding courts in the Republic of Croatia. We live in the 21st century, in the last law we talked about the Internet, information, etc. I'm going to give you a concrete example. In various competitions, a tender for the admission of one employee to one school was launched, and this employee had to bring in a certificate of impunity. He brought in a certificate of impunity from the Osijek court that he had not been punished, but he was admitted to the workplace because he had certain advantages, met all the conditions but later it turned out that he was punished and punished in a court of law in Valpovo. The director had to act in such a way as was normal and the employee was fired. A new competition has been opened in Valpovo High School where the same candidate again appears in the competition for a place in Valpovo High School and again brings back confirmation because he lives in the city of Osijek, from the court in Osijek that he is not being punished. And he's got a powerful verdict in a court of law in Valpo, I don't know what parts. And now we have practically come, or not me, but those who need to decide on the candidate's reception, and again because of the advantages he has should be accepted. They didn't know how to do it. I don't know what they did, they canceled the contest or what. So I guess I'll get to the bottom of it. I've been taken 20 seconds, so please give me that much. So, my question to you is how is it possible that in the 21st century or that you will take this suggestion to make something happen, wherever you click that name and last name in the Republic of Croatia to know that this person has been punished, and not that he may have committed a crime in Rijeka, there has been convicted and lives in Split and will receive confirmation from his competent court that he has not been punished. It's a little illogical to me, that's all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31867	My friend Buric, it was more of a debate than a replica. But all right, I've respected the term. Next replica Josip Salapic. Here's a colleague of Salapic's. ... You didn't answer for the replica, I'm sorry. [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]] Next replica Josip Salapic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31868	Here will have the minister an opportunity to answer the may... And to me, that's the question. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I agree primarily with the Minister what you said about the report of the President of the Supreme Court to the Croatian Parliament. It's also a matter of simple curtsy that whoever chooses to give you confidence to get a report on this general state of mind in the Court of Justice. What I'm trying to say is, I'm in the House, I'm in charge of the Board of Representatives and Appeals, and this is a good solution, and it is necessary to give the judge time and duty to respond to the play within 30 days. Unfortunately, over a hundred performances are coming to our committee. This is sometimes considered inconclusive, and all serious about the problems of our citizens about the lack of court, about not responding to the performances, about absolute concern for citizens' problems in situations when they address courts, and even those of which, when some ministries are resolutely deaf to the solutions of the Court of Justice, so that citizens are suspended and seek protection with their performances. And I think it's something that's good and that needs to be taken seriously, because by not answering and not treating the courts in such proceedings, it simply throws away the whole system and then we care for the adoption of such solutions and good legal proposals and quality instruments if the courts are deafening it. And therefore, it is absolutely to welcome and it is a measure that needs to be made available to our citizens first and foremost, and the issue will also be raised in the debate on the property of judges, about all the transparent data that should be made available to the public. So it's all a connected system. The state can only function if it is healthy in all its foundations, so on this threefold of the government, and I think it is something that will firstly give legal certainty to all of us primarily citizens who expect simple flexibility and the operationality of the judiciary and the judicial system as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31869	Thank you. We don't have a reply to the replica. We're moving on. Do the committee's rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Branko Vukšić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31870	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. Nothing happens by accident, so it certainly doesn't happen by accident, the state by accident. She can only be random if she's a random prime minister. It is a real shame that this debate takes place in the afternoon, which is not discussed in the morning because many things are not otherwise seen. For the first time, between the first and second readings, we have almost no reason to argue because many proposals are respected and because the law has experienced those changes that it was meant to experience. Then the Croatian public would testify if it were not for the Croatian Parliament on the principle that it was always an opposition against the government, that we were indiscriminate blasphemers, professional critics. This time, the minister was praised for entering boldly into some changes. And we certainly support that courage. This is an example that the government knows how to pass good laws, but unfortunately this very fact that it is debated this afternoon, the government does not know how to advertise what it does well, but it can advertise what it does wrong. Well, that's one of our remarks. What the minister also spoke of and what caused the controversy in the public is certainly the report of the President of the Supreme Court to the Croatian Parliament, which seems to be very difficult to bring down by the judicial authority. We've heard the statements of many judges, we've heard statements and the President of the Supreme Court, which is why the judicial authority gets measles. It can even be assumed. It is illogical, however, that the President of the Supreme Court does not want to come out here, but when the law is passed, he will have to go to the parliamentary deputies and report to the Croatian public about the situation in the Croatian judiciary, and also share our packs with the parliamentary legislators, who may have passed wrong, wrong, bad laws by the judicial authority. To establish dialogue between the two authorities is certainly not bad, insisting on this dialogue is good. By no means does this law derivate the judicial authority, this law does not reduce the independence of the judicial authority, although even by addressing the President of the Supreme Court to Croatian representatives, representatives of the Croatian Parliament, or Croatian authorities, its importance is also strengthened. The same thing that does not concern so much this law, which is also the property cards of judges who have also received measles because they should present to the Croatian public what they have. All the things we discussed in the first reading or the most important things we discussed contained in this law. In fact, my smallness has been honestly found, Minister Milenic seems to not belong to this authority because he is afraid he is not being relieved because he has begun to respect the opposition's remarks. Or that power is changed by the democratic minister's behaviour, which I welcome in any case, as I welcome on behalf of the Croatian Labourists and this law. All that the law says, about a reasonable trial, about a mistrial of another court, and what's most important is what's being said about a trial within a reasonable period, because the dispute of justice is actually a new injustice we support and we hope that this practice as the minister of justice has shown, I just hope it's not negative that the opposition praises it, that it will continue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31871	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy. Maybe we should suggest that the law lasts for 15, 16 hours this afternoon. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31872	Dear counterpart Vuksic, when the proposal is good we will surely adopt it, you saw, for example, last Friday, certain proposals that came from the opposition's policy on excise duties were adopted so I don't see why this would be a precedent. But we return to the Law on Courts, which is the basic law governing the issue of the work of courts in the Republic of Croatia. It regulates the structure, the detour, the internal structure of the courts, etc. We're not gonna list it all, we mostly talked about it when it was on the agenda first reading. At that time, we talked about how these laws are regulated in a better way, although this has caused a lot of controversy, for example, the provisions on the immunity of judges that are in line with the relevant provisions of the Constitution, the issue of a constitutional case now and on the proposal of the Minister of Justice, but we must warn that there are often very unusual situations in the puzzling case, that the occasional volunteering of other courts is subject to cases that are very easy to process, and then this results in an absurd situation where more time is lost in the process itself than would be lost for the court to solve the case itself, so I ask the minister to pay particular attention to how the institute would not be misused. Furthermore, this law regulates in a more efficient manner the handling of cases concerning the right to trial within a reasonable period of time, the institute of the Director of the Court is introduced, the question of the court's deposit is regulated, etc. However, the most important newspaper introduced in this second reading, which was introduced on the proposal, I would say absolutely everyone who discussed this law in the first reading is the issue of the report on the state of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia, something we will probably call the State of Justice Report. In fact, it was already stated in the first reading that all the presidents of the courts, I will be corrected, all except one President of the Court and the President of the most important Supreme Court, that all, except that one President, are required once a year by 31 March at the latest for the previous year on the affairs of the judicial administration and the measures and activities taken to improve the work and efficiency of the court in resolving the case, to submit the report directly to the High Court, to the State Court of Justice and to the Minister of Justice. However, there was no provision for a similar report to be submitted by the President of the Supreme Court. Of course, we have pointed out that for both the assembly and the general public, it would be very interesting once a year to hear the situation of our courts. Do they have enough money, whether the judges, whether the President of the Supreme Court, think the laws we bring are good, that the ministry is doing its job, etc. So we felt it was good not to go through the State's Attorney's Office's work reports once a year, not through the cover of the Attorney General's Reports, the State Audit or so on, specifically, to discuss the state of the courts openly. This law introduces it. It is introduced, we would say in one wash form, in a form where it is very clear that such a report is not adopted. So there will be no debate here where we will be able to refuse the report on the work of the President of the Supreme Court even though the Constitution would be the basis for this because the Constitution clearly requires that the Croatian Parliament chooses but also resolves the President of the Supreme Court, so it would be responsible for us not to accept such a report, possibly and to initiate the procedure for the removal of the President. But I'm saying here it's a very moderate form of work reports, i.e. the state of the courts that are yet to be completed, that the laziness is complemented by the provision that no specific cases can be discussed in the debate, but only how the judicial authority works is whether, whether the laws apply properly, etc. I repeat again without a concrete debate on individual cases. The question raised about this is whether such a provision, whether such a report violates the principle of governmental trinitation, or the principle of judicial independence. Our answer from the SDP's club, but I believe most of the expert public, will be no. This does not undermine the independence of the judiciary, thus not affecting the government's trio. However, this fulfils the obligation that the legislative authority has, as set out in Article 4(2). The constitution that states: "The principle of government division includes forms of mutual cooperation and mutual checks of the holder of the authority prescribed by the Constitution and the law." So our obligation is once a year, at least once a year to discuss how one of these three governments works. We discuss the work of the government much more often, there is the Institute of Interpletion on the work of the Government and I think it is absolutely constitutionally acceptable, and I would even say binding to discuss at least once a year the state of that third judicial authority. The question has been raised whether such a thing is appropriate to European practice and the answer will be clear, although I believe that later in the debate a little more will be discussed, but I will point out in Europe that it is not unknown to discuss the state of the judicial authority, such an institution as we propose exists in Denmark, or Poland not to list further. All in all, not to repeat what we said in the first reading, this is a good law that we think will improve the situation in the Croatian judiciary, this is an absolutely constitutional law and that is why the SDP's Club of Representatives will be pleased to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31873	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31874	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Secretary with his associates. We have already talked about these laws and about this law in the first reading, but what I would like to stress on behalf of the CNS we have in the last 2 months, 3 months passed through 5, 6 key judicial laws that are in some way a mini reform, but it is not presented in this way and it may be good that it is not presented, because whenever reform is said, expect a lot, and in reality most often results, that is, time shows that reforms have not been implemented. This has been spent all together in one real way. So through five, six key laws with key changes and additions. And I would say that here we have made a big step ourselves, this government and the competent ministry, but we have to recognise another part that has pushed us a little bit, to do it this high-quality and fast, which is EU monitoring, that is, the requirements that we had in the judiciary chapter, means to bring our judiciary into line and one good part of the legislation in the context of that with EU standards. It is an opportunity to say that it is one of the good things that the EU brings us. So the EU will continue to force us to, that is, force our membership into the EU, in some ways dictate that we improve our laws, modernize them, make them tailored to real life and the needs of our citizens. And this law and this one that we were just discussing, and this one that we're going to discuss after this goes that way, and the HNS welcomes it. I also commended it in all my discussions in the first readings of these laws. I will now not list all the advantages, or all the changes that this law makes, because on many occasions they are spoken and commended. However, what we want to point out is that now the Ministry of Justice, the Government of the Republic of Croatia in this segment, is the basis of all these laws, and in particular that which is one of the fundamental laws, the Law on Courts, has created good tools with which to improve the entire system, and what, of course, we all suffers most from the very large number of other cases being measured by thousands, which are unfortunately held in courts for years, and all of these proposals should be in the direction of making it better over time. What I would also like to praise is that she also praised the trial, so I guess the position has the right to even more praise the competent ministry, which is that the ministry is precisely with these laws that it passed in a relatively short period, in fact in the first year of its term, has given itself a chance to see the results of these laws in the next three years, and it would be good for everyone to do so, so I think that the Minister of Justice deserved a great deal of praise because if we are operational, if we really stand behind this story, I believe that the minister wants to probably see some results by the end of this term and perhaps before that. What my colleague Grbin was talking about, and what we also pointed out in the first reading, means, in addition to putting all the courts in order, that is to say, to report, to make plans in the work of the courts at all levels. They are brought in, plans must be made, and oversight of the work of the courts is carried out. All of this should improve greater responsibility in the work of our judiciary. But it is crucial that some general assessment of the work of the courts should come in the form of a particular report, or the President of the Supreme Court in this House, we believe that it is right, we believe that every job should and can be discussed, can be directed, can be suggested, and can be discussed in this House of High Court and we consider that it will be good for both themselves and for the whole system as such, and in some ways we will be able to provide our citizens with one more quality, comprehensive information about the work of the judiciary. There's a whole series of suggestions here that are commendable, and I'm not going to specifically quote them, but I'm going to say that on behalf of the HNS Club, we will support the adoption of this law, the vote of this law on Friday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31875	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31876	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with assistant, colleagues and fellow MPs. The HDZ Club will support the adoption of this final proposal of the Law on Courts, of course, with some, so there are no comments. So first of all, we think it's a good idea to bring a whole new text of the law, given the changes so far, to nom technically edit this area. So, as we heard from the minister, there are several important changes to the first reading, but I would also mention those changes that were good in the proposal were also in the first reading. Here is the information, so first of all, it is to regulate the procedure in relation to the right to protection of the right to trial within a reasonable period of time that we expect these changes to be more effective. First of all, it is that it is placed in the jurisdiction of the President of the Court who resolves the case, so that the President of the Court will be the first to request a report from the judge, which will order the judge to settle within an appropriate time limit which cannot be more than 60 days only afterwards will the parties have the right to claim compensation for breach of that right before the High Court. We expect this to speed up and expect less to end them in front of the European Court of Human Rights, we hope. What is also being introduced here is this proposal, this final draft of the law, given the increased obligations of the President of the Court of Justice, indeed, which is now subject to almost daily review of the exercise of the Court of Justice, the work of the judges, which is subject to a whole set of reports which he must submit on the monthly and annual basis and the Ministry of Justice and the President of the Supreme Court and the President of the Court of Justice, and it seems to me that everything, therefore, will be engaged in these tasks of systematic supervision and the implementation of measures on the effectiveness of the work, is therefore allowed by this law in large courts which have over 40 judges to have a director of the judicial administration who would deal with these logistic and material-technical affairs. I must also say here that I also express my satisfaction because a series of remarks that we have made in the debate in the first reading have been incorporated into this final text of the law also in relation to the case of the Registrar of the Court in courts with more than 15 judges and directors of the judiciary. I expect that the Government may amend by amendment a provision that prescribes the conditions for the Registrar in the lower court, where more courts are now required to comply with the Registrar of the Court of Justice's terms and conditions in that court, and in the lower court, it can only be a graduate lawyer. We believe that it is not enough for the Registrar of the Court, that the practical trainee who has just graduated might act in that capacity, therefore it should be conditioned that he too must meet the minimum conditions for counsellors in that court. It is also good that clear criteria for determining the number of judges in courts have been established. We know so there was also talk about rationalizing the network of courts. Unfortunately, we had to, it took this rationalization to achieve a balance and balance between courts that were 30 kilometers away and had a disproportionate case in court and the number of judges, and I think it was the Charter of the Council of Europe on Judges, the appointed judge in one court could in no way be deployed without his consent to another court and then the outcome was that rationalisation which is good and because of the specialization of certain types of cases etc. It is also a good provision on the framework criteria adopted by the General Meeting of the Supreme Court but that these framework criteria must then be flexible or must comply with all those amendments to the laws which will affect the work of the courts, that they must be answered without waiting for a year at a time. And it is good that the delegation of the case decided by the President of the Supreme Court that this could certainly happen on the proposal of the President of the Court and of the Prime Minister's proposal. Now, the minister was saying that one good solution is that in the case of a play, there is a mandatory 30-day term for reply, of course there is probably no sanctions. But with that deadline, it would be good to say that this notion of what content must be. I was looking at the answers to the performances when the party asks after 5.6 years what's wrong with my case, when my case isn't yet, why isn't it yet, which is his reason. And then the President of the Court has a single sentence like this and answers, your subject is not the subject of priority resolution, it will be settled when it comes to the rules of procedure, over. So that's not an answer to the public's notion that's been waiting for 5, 6 years, so something could be done in a clearer provision on how to react. There were a lot of speeches, as the public said, about two things about the immunity of judges and the submission of the report by the Supreme Court president. That's where we quoted Article 4. The constitution, we have quoted it as being a part of the government, but it involves forms of mutual cooperation and mutual verification. Finally, there is no need to fear that there will be some influence of the legislative authority in court at all. Well, then we could troublesome the question of the election of the Supreme Court president because the more political decision you make than to have the parliamentary majority decide who will be president of the Supreme Court, so I think it's far less for him to appear here. I think it gives us an excellent opportunity just for the power of justice and for the President of the Supreme Court to present to us what problems are in the system, where maybe it's not a good legislative framework, where there's a lack of resources why something can't be solved. After all, I've been discussing the situation in this judicial system for years and years, and the basis for that is always the state's attorney's report. I therefore do not understand why this problem would be to file such a report and the President of the Supreme Court. What we point out may rightly be the President of the Supreme Court to say that he may not be the only one who should because we still have in the judiciary in some way two completely independent and independent institutions, which are at this point the State Judiciary Council, which has a great authority and authority and influences the quality of efficiency, impartiality, objectivity and whatever it is that decides which of the judicial officials in this case will enter and become a judge or who will have to come out of that system because of certain failures that he had, that I am not saying that it also decides who will become a candidate and a student of the High School of Judiciary. So a series of independent decisions are made, and also the Judicial Academy, here's the other day the minister on one committee when it comes to education what should and how to educate the judges, said that he can't do anything because that the Judiciary Academy is completely independent under the new law of institutions that decides on it independently in the board of directors are otherwise because at the head of the board is the President of the Supreme Court, the State Attorney, the Chief, etc. But not the Justice Minister has any influence on that, which I personally don't know if is the happiest solution. But here is what the EU Commission's recommendation on the independence of all of them is about. But personally, I don't think it's the happiest solution. But here we might expect some more reports, and it seems to me that the State Judiciary Council would also be a place of law. The minister mentioned something about the judge's obligation, it seems to me that you said it seems irrelevant and it is very important, that he is responsible for the entry, that he is obliged by judges to monitor the timely and complete entry of data into the case in the information system applied in court. It is also important to insist on this and the question is it always technically all very well solved or possible, but it is certainly well settled by law. And now there's one question I've been asked, and that's what assigned the case. So with that obligation of judges, which is also now in law and I think that's good. This was before the business it seems to me to be a provision that the judge is obliged to handle the cases which he has been ordered to settle in order to take them into court by keeping an eye on the cases which have been specifically laid down as an emergency. So it's a good thing it's a legal provision now. But here's Article 86 of the Rules of Procedure on how cases are arranged and how cases are arranged. And now as the rules of procedure so far, it's said to be in alphabetical order. Where departments are set up according to departments where the departments are not set up in alphabetical order and says in paragraph 5, that is the same ex-business provision when the case is scheduled will be taken into account on the even schedule of the case and the type and complexity of the case. And then we have an item 6 that speaks of the famous... or the automatic assignment of the subject to work, so as an excellent anti-corruption asset, it's just a question that the computer can't recognize the type and weight of the case. And I don't know if, in practice, we've gotten to the point where random division of someone's objects is easier, because it's a coincidence, if it's happened through frame standards or through norm, if we're taking care of it because this hand-to-hand assignment can have control over what kind of objects in this automatic assignment it can't. I think it's mostly this court proposal that some institutes are reinforced, that's good. As far as immunity issues are concerned, it has been established in accordance with the Constitution, and I even think that one of those paragraphs 2 is somewhat looser than constitutional arrangements, but certainly reading the Constitution on the resolution of immunity, let's say the representatives and judges are also defined differently in the Constitution. Therefore, if we were to discuss another arrangement in relation to the judges, if that were the case, we would also have to reach for constitutional change as we are from the principle of Article 122. The Constitution does. Here are all these reasons I said we will support this law and we hope that it will lead to a more effective trial and, in fact, more orderly and evenly burdening all judges in this country not to happen in certain courts are burden ratios 1:10. I hope this law also contributes to that solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31877	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDSSB club Josip Salapic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31878	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So this is one of the laws, says colleagues from the ruling coalition that even the opposition praises the law and that it is good and beautiful, and simply these are the laws that we all need to support and bring together and maybe it's a little bad that late in the evening we're discussing it because the public is gaining in these morning discussions that opposition and power are really arguing about something. It may also be nice to let laws like this enter into the Parliament's morning debate to see that constructive ideas and objections are respected by inclusion in legislative proposals because these laws are special, here is the Law on Courts, essential for the functioning of the legal system of the Republic of Croatia, and thus strengthens our responsibility as representatives of the elected Croatian Parliament to pass laws that will firstly serve our citizens. And that is why the HDSSB club also supports this Final Bill on Courts and all these new instruments that are provided by law, which in a better, more efficient and functional way regulate the structure and the partial court in the Republic of Croatia. The controversy over the report of the President of the Supreme Court in Croatia, the President of the Supreme Court, and we, as a representative club, supported this initiative that the President of the Supreme Court address the Croatian Parliament, not to involve us as representatives in the specific cases that are before the Court, nor to ask about what is the case in particular, but to see what is the situation in the highest Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia, the highest instance, and that through one quality debate on the report, perhaps better solutions on the legal frameworks that we have adopted, especially with a significant fact that if God becomes a full member of the European Union this year, we will become a full member of the European Union. This all together and this work that we have done so far in this part of the judiciary, which has indeed been painful and difficult, which has given great effort not only to this government now but also to all the former governments, it has been our task and obligation, and we have done it all successfully together. It sheds one new light, one new obligation in front of courts and before the legislator, so it would not be mixing but simply one quality debate about it. And it's not even the subject of this law, it wouldn't be bad if the prime minister spoke to the Parliament once a year, we can't forget we're a parliamentary country, our government came out of this high house, and it's about some important issues concerning the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the economy, state finances, it would be nice to hear it in the Croatian Parliament, and it's simply creating a new picture of democracy in Croatia, and in what we all have to do together to improve our country here at this crucial moment of entry into the European Union. We are of course in favour of what colleagues in previous discussions have said about the issue of the immunity of judges, about better quality resolution of the institute, which is known not only for MPs but also for other senior state officials, so that there is no disturbance in the functioning of the courts. So about the real changes, the real and local jurisdiction of the courts when it is in the interest of resolving the procedure, so solutions are good, especially if there is a delegation of jurisdiction, issues are addressed how the costs of the parties will be compensated. Sometimes the question arises whether the network of courts is good, which if the case is transferred, is whether the costs are to the parties. So these are legal solutions, and in that previous law, we discussed it, so definitely an instrument that will help save the costs first and foremost, and also dissipating courts when it comes to things that have been standing for a long time. It is indeed a measure that is well settled in this law. Also, the affairs and powers of the President of the Court. We have also seen a different manner of authority of the State Judiciary Council concerning the election of the President of the Court, a greater responsibility to the president, a greater duty, therefore, and the trust that he gets to act as President of the Court of Justice. It is not only a formal but also a responsible place and is therefore responsible for the work of the court as a whole and for the functioning of the work of judges in certain cases, but only the issue concerning the regular functioning of the court. The introduction of the Director of the Judicial Administration as the Head of the Court was necessary. Here I am witness to our court in Osijek, which is one truly beautiful historical building which is also in war circumstances, and also that fire that broke out and some other extraordinary measures really needed that, except for the President of the Court, there is one manager who will take care of the conditions of work in the court because it creates a picture not only of the efficiency of the court but also of the technical conditions and the place where the judges are working, the arrival of the parties to courts if it is derout and in bad condition, if the courts can hardly accept the parties then, and already only by visual entry into such a place, it is a place to create something that does not work, and it is simply necessary to do everything in addition to this judicial action and in such large courts to make it much better and more accessible citizens, and it will certainly improve the conditions of work, but also the whole picture of the courts and courts and of the courts and county and other institutions, and other cases, and it is really something that is really something that is necessary and it will be better to do so. I have already spoken in the previous law on the motion for trial within a reasonable period of time in Article 29 of the Croatian Constitution, Article 6. The European Conventions are a question that goes through these debates. It is indeed necessary to make it a reasonable time-limit indeed to be and that he himself is saying that parties within one appropriate time-limit of taking the costs with a quick procedure come to their solution. I hope this 35 000 kuna damage is enough. Is there more than that? Maybe so, but given the overall financial situation, and also given the fact that this year because of the overall situation in the economy, there is little less money in the judicial portfolio. Maybe it's really here on my part and reasonable that it's that amount. We need to assess in the future whether that's enough. Indeed, the parties that suffer the damage should make up for it with some kind of satisfaction, and if that is 35,000 kuna, I can now believe that it will be enough. The good and resolved question of the Justice Department's inspection was the regular one, they were extraordinary. Sometimes it is necessary to act really quickly and react quickly to law violations. I also said this for performances. That 30-day deadline is a time limit that is good to lay down by law, but it should be done so that those who write plays are not a specter for answers, but that they really do according to the play, and we can do everything together. Here's how this is gonna work when the law goes into its own realisation, so that citizens don't write to you about how they speak to us MPs and courts as well. There are judicial advisers, there is no need for judges to answer that question if they are burdened with work, but that someone really takes this idea seriously and that one, by appropriate treatment of the citizens, returns that belief that those who question both the judge and the court in full to get a good and good and true answer and not to be a sprawl for all. I say, there are a lot of performances in the Committee on Representatives and Justice of the Citizens where they complain about the conduct and deadlines in the work of the courts. Here's what I believe is that this measure will be good for us to reduce this by not being in principle and declarative, but indeed for better solutions for our citizens. The burden and disbursement of judges with this measure to give advisors items worth up to 100 000 kunas will primarily contribute to the disbursement and reduction of the number of cases in courts and that is a measure which is good and necessary and the advisors are a long range of years of work and by gaining experience on cases I think up to these cases solve these values with up to 100,000 kuna. Anyway, here's to not saying we're fighting over what's good. Our club supports this law and will support all those laws if together in a quality debate we can all contribute to the better and greater stability of our judiciary and the legal security of the state as a whole. The opposition is to serve the correction of power and to make the government better. If there's anything good, then you really need to back it up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31879	Thank you, too. We move to an individual debate, Ingrid Antičević Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31880	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. As my predecessor, who just spoke to counterpart Josip Salapic, says, this is a law that we all support. We still have to make a little effort to keep him and the judges in line as long as we support him. That's what's bothering us, that's what's bothering us, and that's what most of us are. What do you do in that case? This Final Proposal for a Law on Courts which, like all similar laws of all countries, contains general provisions, structure, deliriousness, jurisdiction of courts. So, all that is necessary for the work of the judiciary but contains something that I will only talk about, because I don't have a lot of time and what bothers our citizens and I mean all these branches of government that often transfer responsibility to each other in terms of ineffectiveness of the work of the judiciary, and that's a matter of duty, but also a question of the rights that precede them because judges really need to precede rights but also duties to fulfill their constitutional and legal task. What is the situation still in front of our Croatian courts, the situation is still so to blame, whether it is criminal persecution or litigation to blame hope, and to be truly afraid. We will succeed with our reform when the guilty are afraid, and the real one not only hoped but believed in that justice. It's an ideal that we need to pursue, and in order for that to happen, judges simply have to become priests of justice. Of course, it is an ideal that needs to be pursued and difficult to reach and has never been reached in any period. What does that mean? This implies its excellent qualifications and knowledge assumed, i.e. during the procedure, the specific procedures for admission to judicial duty, promotions are determined. So that's what we've regulated. But what's most important, and that's his purity, his morals and his understanding that it's not a job like any other. The judge just has to figure it out can't be everyone. He's a judge and a way of life, and the judge is giving up a lot of things and commitment to that job. Unfortunately, it's not like that today. Not many watch the job but look at the hour when it will end. Of course, the question of responsibility and this ideal that we have to strive for, and many of us have such judges, many of our judges are just like that, but I can say that I have convinced myself, probably many of you, that they are also envious of their colleagues for what is really important, what is the vaccine, is true to the law as a drunk float, and who knows everything else? So these judges aren't popular in their midst, often they don't experience the necessary promotion or at the appropriate time as they deserve because these are from others who are average, and not so beyond average as they are. The question of judges' responsibility for seducing litigation and dishonesty is not a question of our time. It ran throughout the Roman period starting from the 12 tablets of the Law to the end of the empire. Even in the 12 - record bill, it was also prescribed if the judge sold justice to the iurandaum sum pescunia, so the capital penalty was also provided for the money. In addition, a high degree of social inadmissibility was shown at later times whether they were responsible for private lawsuits or were responsible for public-law character, discipline or punishment. Perhaps in the time of the Republic she was relieved to change such punishment by going to exile voluntarily. Thus, even at the time of the empire when they were appointed by the emperor himself as persons of his trust, they were personally responsible for obeying the law. So, the question of the honesty of the judge, the question of dishonest or corrupt behavior in every public service for every public official, clerk or senior official when such things occur they shake the whole system but when they report to the judiciary they are destructive. Therefore, the question of accountability, the question of respecting the law, you ZPP, and we are passing a new Law on Courts, but we have constantly changed the Law on a litigation procedure because it was not applied, so a logical question arises if the judge who judges does not respect the law which he judges and what is the basic court will be? Of course, there is and the other side of the medal you have judges still waiting for order to get a courtroom, all that stands and it's not just our trouble. But lately, both the last 10 years and a few more years, significant budget funds have been allocated to the judiciary and their work has been facilitated. So let's remember in the '90s it wasn't, the case was with a judge who was no longer a judge and the citizens were simply used to such things that when the judge came, when he was appointed, his case was, say, being conducted in referendum 7, and that referendum 7 doesn't exist because that judge or judge has been a public notary for 4 or 5 years. People waited patiently until 2000 I would say when the judicial reform was just launched, but then it started on the judiciary and talking. And the criticism started to come out because it was considered a normal condition. And that's good to talk about. Now this has aroused the power of judgment, but that provision in Article 45 is in favour of the judicial authority to come and bring out what problems these are. But also to be self-critical, which are the weaknesses of the system itself and which are the inability to improve things. That's something, it's a joint job to make it a pleasure for the citizens and to have the judicial authority carry out its mission. Of course, this provision, paragraph 4, in Article 45, which imposes on the President of the Supreme Court as the High Representative of the Judicial Authority in the Republic of Croatia, so to go before the Croatian Parliament and that it is our obligation, it is our duty not to discuss cases in progress. However, the issue of large presses is raised in media judges. They've already ruled in some things. And no matter how likely it is or not the state of things is, it's unacceptable behavior and it's not easy for judges. But unfortunately, the fact is that law-abiding judges will be made public, ridiculed and called out. However, the situation is difficult but being a judge I say is not to be popular, especially in this time, but to insist on applying the law. So, stick to the law. And that's the most important thing that we have to do to help, not help. I repeat, our mission here is to make the importance, to raise the reputation of the judiciary and not to lower it. Material conditions can still be insufficient for the work of the judiciary. However, they cannot in any way be an excuse for the unlawful conduct of the judge. It can't be, so there's one of our old folk sayings that's true doesn't matter so for a citizen he wants to have one or a citizen like that they're looking to be tried fairly in his case. There was a message, so one proverb says, "Judge, sit wrong, but judge right." This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Convention, the European Conventions on the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, says that every man has the right to judge within a reasonable period of time, unbiasedly make a decision in his matter. So not most judges, but every citizen has a right to do that. And that's why the great authority that every country, and so do we to the judge, is given to the judge individually, not as some total mass, one body, one judge individually, to the judicial council, to decide the most important good, but that's why the responsibility is sought. Here's one more sentence, they're looking for judges, and it's good, to decide for themselves one responsibility, one that doesn't stick to it, but if they don't accept it, and they don't take that responsibility they've asked for the crazy one, we'll say we won't touch individual court cases, the street will talk about it, and no one will stop it. [[Intruder Vice President Batinić: Time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31881	Thank you. We have two replicas on your exhibit. Andrey Plenkovic first picked up. Here's my colleague Plenkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31882	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear colleagues Antičević-Marinović, concerning part of your presentation relating to Article 45 and to the provision that the President of the Supreme Court is obliged to submit a report to the Croatian Parliament once a year on the state of the judicial authority in the past year. I think it is important that we link this debate today to that debate we had when we spoke before it seems to me 2 months ago about the judiciary strategy, when we pointed out the need for a full debate on the situation in the Croatian judiciary, and it is very clear that it is also through the analysis of jurisdiction and also by the Constitutional provisions on the triodition of the authorities, and especially by the powers of the state judicial council and the Minister of Justice himself who is here that we can only get this whole picture if we are given by all the actors within his legal jurisdiction. And that is why it seems to me that it would be good before we pass this law which, in my opinion, is an overall quality framework and opens up space to the Croatian judiciary and the conditions of membership in the EU to consider making this one whole debate about the situation in the judiciary in the same way and that the president of the DSV and that the minister of justice, and perhaps even the head person of the judicial academy, participates in this debate. I leave the Minister first and foremost to the Government to figure out how to regulate it, how to make this debate coherent and consistent because I think the Croatian public expects it, that the question of the reliability of the Croatian judicial system and in terms of efficiency and in terms of the exercise of individual rights is one of the key issues in Croatian society. And that is why I appeal to one such whole debate especially in the Croatian Parliament which has the title and also the reasons why we should discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31883	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica, please welcome fellow Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31884	Well, I think you're knocking on an open door. That kind of initiative was already on our own Justice Committee. I think it's something that's absolutely acceptable, because it just makes it possible to implement and bring all these laws that we all agree on. After all, this report, which will be submitted by the Supreme Court president on the state of the judicial authority, may be something that has been expanded by the judicial authority and has already acted towards the ministry, according to the executive authority when it provided statistics. Of course statistics can't be everything, and these statistics were such that they were also processed, so they're not just numbers, therefore unwarrantedly, here I'm using this replica to suit you, but simply to remove any suspicion that here the report and the appearance of the Supreme Court president of any kind of attack on judicial authority. However, we have a lot, or we who are representatives of citizens, of citizens have a lot of complaints, and we will probably get answers as to what is still a judicial system to be swift, to be effective. But, you know, we have to deal with that, and that's for sure, and it's going to face more and more, to a greater extent, day by day, and it's facing the judicial authority, or the state-fate council, that it has a decision, the judges are independent, but I can't, that independence doesn't mean independence from law and common sense, unfortunately it has such decisions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31885	Thank you. Next replica, Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31886	Thank you very much. Well, colleagues of Antičević-Marinović, I am pleased to agree, here is also about this initiative of ours and mine which I have said that, apart from the report of the Supreme Court President, it would be a good profit from these other two, but certainly from the most important independent institution, which is the State-Court Council. Also the report, but I didn't want to replicate it, but to yours, you said, and that's true, it's often not easy for judges, that in the media only because they consistently apply the law. It is true, and that is why we need judges who are safe in themselves, who are well educated to resist the pressures of any kind, not to tell those politicians that a lot of talk about, and it seems to me that they are the least, about those large capitals that are sometimes present, but certainly also about the pressures, perhaps even the accidental media who think that they always know in advance that they should be dealt with and often get judgments that may be little and under that influence. We therefore very much need the education of judges, and it is not enough in the law. Here's what it says here is that the judge's duty is constantly to train himself, to participate in the programs, but it seems to me that there should be more offers than demand still seems to me to be such a situation, much more judges would like to be perfected, but that in that judicial academy there is no place for me to know. The minister can convince me if he doesn't, because otherwise we'll have a good word you said. It's a waste of time not to discuss individual subjects, but the street will talk. The street will speak as it seems, as it read somewhere or heard somewhere but the judge must be sure of his decision and make it exclusively according to the law and common sense and logic as well as you said and that there is no influence on him on the street or any of the other factors I've talked about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31887	Here is an answer to the replica of counterpart Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31888	It is true that recently, not only recently but back several years more judges and judicial officials want to be further educated, wants to attend various seminars organised by their special associations. However, I just remind myself of when we started education in 2002 or 2003, the judges welcomed it to the knife, so this provision that is new, I think they barely want to come when that year expires to come, to say what the problems are, to brag about what is good and to say that they have condemned what was wrong. Only other colleagues you've said are you glad that this initiative of yours has been accepted. I believe that the President of the Supreme Court has no doubt by the provision of Article 45 that he will present a report of the judicial authority itself as a whole to the administrative court, not only the work of the Supreme Court, of all the courts, of the commercial courts and of the administrative court, which seemed to me to be spoken first and on the committee of your colleague, that is, our colleague Shacks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31889	Thank you. Next up for the debate, Joseph Kregar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31890	Dear Mr. Vice President, many commended Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At first glance, the aim of this law seems to be to increase the efficiency of the judiciary. That's right. Satisfying the conditions set by the European Commission, quite precisely. There are some unspeakable goals that are certainly meant to be achieved by this legislative initiative. First of all, it is to restore trust and raise the credibility of the judicial authority. It is also the beginning of a joint co-operation not only of parliament and judiciary as parts of the state government but also of all those who should be bearers and be responsible for the situation in the judiciary, and these are not just judges. Moreover, I think and that's what my colleague Salapic pointed out. I'm under the impression of a rather difficult situation in the judiciary, because every day I get one or two letters pointing out individual very difficult cases. So if it's not all true it still stops from... I think that the European Commission is also receiving identical letters and the Ministry and the State's Attorney, etc. It's actually a very difficult climate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] One stupidity in the reasoning of the verdict is enough to serve as a subject of mockery with the judiciary, as a profession. This, of course, creates a general climate that needs to be sided with both fair judges and those who want to change in the judiciary and work there, give them support and take their stand. But there's one other thing about being directly attached to this one. And that is the fact of its kind of bureaucratic closure of courts, the judiciary as a system and judges as a profession. It is a kind of bureaucratic autism in which they are considered best of course to know the work they do and the success of the job. They're quite subjective, although convinced they're doing great because they have hundreds of evidence of their commitment to work, honesty, so that's exactly what they're doing, but it's not enough to assess the external and real impact of any organization. It is in the literature that the organization is sometimes more difficult to close and declare its own survival and functioning to be the only important and what is the external effect that needs to be achieved and that is justice here is a little bit concerned. In this law, there is a great potential for raising the level of mutual cooperation and restoring trust, especially in this article that was most discussed, judges and the Supreme Court, the Association of Judges, they have objected to an existing solution by giving two basic arguments. That's what Mr. Grbin was talking about. It is one constitutional legal argument that in the case of a separate authority, or the division of authorities, it learns about Article 4. Our constitution, the judiciary is independent, separate from the other two authorities. However, this is neither doctrinal nor truly a positive legal interpretation. I can dotrinarily open page 332 constitutional law textbooks from Smerdel, Sokol, and they will see that it is explicitly said there is an anacron concept that does not exist anywhere in reality, or in those systems where the idea of power sharing was created. It is also necessary to read paragraph 2. Article 4 which was repeated yesterday on the Committee, which is quite a clear formulation that all parts of the state government must cooperate, and that is a sufficient basis for us to stand as an equal partner who speaks of the problem not the case, so when we discuss the situation or the report, the state of the forest, so we do not discuss nine forests, or a particular tree, so we will not engage here in the assessment of individual cases, you are doing the pressure on the judiciary, quite the opposite we will give the opportunity to share arguments and find the right balance in this assessment which is black on the one hand, and on the other hand too bright. There is also an argument that there is no such system anywhere in Europe. I have made an effort and in 24 European countries I have obtained the situation in this regard. Only in 4 countries of which one is not European Israel, Portugal, Finland, 4 can not now, and there is no reporting to the judiciary of parliament. In all other countries in one form or another. It was to say in the Swedish Ombudsman that parliament or some body such as our State Judiciary Council or the Minister of Justice reported it. I think this is a better solution. It opens a co-operation dialogue, opens up the possibility of participation especially in the preparation of a certain act, and also discusses the report, prepares us as parliamentarians to decide what is in the important interest of the judiciary. Now we're in the debate about the Law of Prosecution, so that's what the catechism of every court is, and they stick to it. The judges also called on the European document... /The speaker speaks in English./... 1997. The issue of immunity, I read it carefully. There is no question of immunity or provision that could be interpreted in this regard. That is why it is indeed to expect that existing certain resistances in the application or understanding of the intensity, and it is certainly necessary to remove any thought that this is about one pressure on the court, this is a command offer of partnership, cooperation and mutual respect. It's not pointing out someone as a black example and then citing all those arguments that testify to corruption, delay, court decisions and the like. But no, we, if we answer to the people who chose us, we need to talk about the situation in the judiciary. Finally, just another small note concerning the fact that this set of laws that we are currently discussing and adopting today and last month we adopted meets the basic criteria set by the EU commission of those 10 are not orders but let's say the order we need to carry out. In any case, this is also the intention of a government proposing law and Parliament which obviously supports it to meet such a requirement in the best way. The intentions and intensities are quite clear. One who wishes to resist such changes assumes the responsibility of obstruction delay. It would be wrong to realize that this is a cause for conflicting and breaking will, otherwise this is a cause for some kind of open hand offer for cooperation. Let me add, nothing prevents either the Presidency of the Parliament or the chairman of the board from consulting and calling the judges for debate in certain matters. Nothing threatened nor did I find offended that the judges had been given this bill more than a month earlier in the House than we had discussed and held positions. Is that the pressure on the legislation? Of course it is and it's good pressure. The only thing that's sad is that the arguments are so weak. But if so, if we offer equal cooperation, then let it be the end of this intervention. A report by the President of the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court is an institution that must unite and make the entire judicial system harmonize. Let it be a reason for a conversation that they will be able to bring about the difficulties they face from a lack of funds to an unfavourable social climate, but in that they must take an important step.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31891	Thank you. We have a replica, colleague Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31892	You have spoken to your colleague about the constitutional provision and the misunderstanding of the provision of Article 4(2) of our Constitution which speaks of the division of power but speaks of mutual control. So it's normally something that all countries and have that kind of... /The speaker speaks English./... which is so much needed, and all to achieve the same purpose, serving the citizens. When you speak here and talk about the speed of the court's work, it should be noted that exactly the speed and the emphasis that money is not only trapped in banks in FINA but trapped in courts, whether it's companies or natural persons. And the speed in which courts work and the quality of the courts directly affect economic flows in one country. So what you colleagues have said is fine, larpuratism but the message that is achieved first and foremost by concentration and decision in one case must be taken into account, so in no case can judges or must not be autistic. Therefore, the invitation to the Croatian Parliament is an honor, it is quite another matter when the court calls on the official, it is known why it invites him, it invites him to the indictee's bench. So it's not true, we all have our own special e-mail and we participate. It is the judges who judge every citizen and state official who are the judges in the administrative courts of the Administrative Courts who control individual and general acts brought by the executive authority. The Constitutional Court, well he is not a court in the right sense of the word but controls the legality, controls the constitutionality of our laws. Therefore, there is no dilemma, and I believe that it will be and remove such a negative attitude and I believe that it does not reflect the dominant mood of all judges.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31893	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Here you go, buddy Craig.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31894	The answer to the replica when we all agree is simple. I'm glad the replica supports that co-operation atmosphere we've achieved here. And here we are only those who support the Ministry as an executive part of the government in the follow-up of initiatives and reforms.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31895	Thank you. Next up for discussion, Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31896	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable ministers with associates, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I have therefore primarily applied for this debate on this agenda point because of the debate that has taken place in the public and through the media and for which I, as well as other interlocutors, have supported certain solutions provided for by this law. The main controversy has prompted precisely a provision obliging the President of the Supreme Court, the applicant of the Annual Report on the State of Judgment in the preceding year, would therefore refer the primary self to the defence and the provision which has been given rather critical consideration by some representatives of the main judicial authority. The basic remark, therefore, is that the principle of the government’s trinity, which I would by no means disagree with, has been violated. In the first row of nowhere in the world there is no such sharp trio of authorities that no interaction between three branches of government, therefore executive, judicial and legislative would already be resolved in different political and legal systems in quite different ways, but more or less everywhere in all systems there are certain interactions, therefore that system which is talked about check and balances between different branches of government. I would even say that the purpose of the government's trip is not to achieve that no government has any touch points with the other, but that principle right now requires mutual cooperation, co-decision and mutual verification. The example in Western democracies provides examples of the abundance of forms of mutual cooperation, co-decision, verification and balance-building of these three branches of government. I think the solution that's being offered right now is for mutual cooperation and verification. They would not be able to talk about the fact that the legislative authority imposes itself on the court because there are examples in countries which, in turn, hold to this principle of the government's trinity, that there are examples of a much greater impact, for example, Executive of the judicial authority, e.g. in the United States, where the President, the executive authority therefore elects the Supreme Court judges or, for example, the Supreme Court. Great Britain, where the Minister of Justice there appoints judges. He's called the Minister of Justice there, Lord... The other provisions of this law therefore focus mainly on rationalising the work of courts, are well discussed and commended in the debate that preceded, and these praises, of course, I join and believe that they will contribute to better and more efficient work of courts. I would refer only to a certain part that causes controversy, so it was about the immunity of judges and property cards, so it's in critical references to this bill as much as I've had the opportunity to read in the media as one of the arguments so that the immunity of judges could be established as the immunity of MPs in the House at the head, and I don't have any particular problems, but then it's omitted to say that the practice of representatives with regard to property cards and other state duties could be applied to judges. So in one segment, you're asked to equate the i.e. to apply the criteria applicable to parliamentary representatives, and in the second, one softer criterion is required. I don't think there's any reason why the criteria applicable to parliamentarians and other state officials with regard to the publication of property cards are therefore not applicable to judicial officials. Moreover, sometimes in the media we have had opportunities to see that certain relatives of judicial officials also have an increase in certain assets disproportionate to their work and legal income, and for this reason I think that this provision on the application of the same criteria for MPs and state officials and judicial officials should even insist and possibly extend, not only for the judicial but also for the other officials. What I am particularly interested in as a representative of the second constituency on the organisation of the work of the courts is the organisation of the network of courts itself. In this regard, I would strongly advocate that the full and final plan of the network of courts be adopted as soon as possible, and that is what I am saying because, in the present state, here, for example. The court in Sesvedi is... in three places, or even four because that land-booking department of the court in Sesvedi is also separated physically from the court itself, and this points to the necessity to better organise this work by connecting these courts, and especially because I know that the conditions in which judges work are, in particular, in a catastrophic state and do not provide good conditions for the work itself. It would therefore be necessary to finally decide, for example, as soon as possible. in respect of this particular court, how the work of the court will be organised and concrete measures taken towards the realization of what is concluded. This certainly is not a lonely case and the efficient work of the courts certainly depends on the organisation of a network of courts and conditions in which judges work throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. Finally, I would point out another observation concerning both the previous and this law, but also the entire system of functioning of all three branches of government, which is the link and networking of both courts and ministries and other bodies of government. Courts often do not have access to data, such as the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Interior, or the Ministry of Administration. I don't think there's any reason that courts, for example, don't have direct access to data from the OIB of citizens that the Ministry of Finance has. According to this bill's proposal in the previous reading of the CAP, I will now appear to need a letter from the Ministry of Finance probably in writing. In some ways, it may seem to me that this is an inefficient solution, a loss of time and money. Because if the court itself had direct access to the finance ministry database in that particular case, this wouldn't be necessary. These things, of course, can only be solved in inter-resorship cooperation. This cannot be solved only by the Ministry of Justice, but here I hope that future solutions will be directed towards easier, faster availability of data from different authorities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31897	Thank you. Minister final. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31898	Thank you very much. Just a few things that were touched. So, technically... The system also recognizes the weight of the object. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thus, this is taken into account in random automatic assignments. It's a system that now works on some 60% of the courts. The plan is by the end of the year to have it on everyone. When you have it, then the citizens will be one good thing, they'll hand over their subject to the Internet. So you'll know exactly where he is, who, who's got the judge, what's going on with him, when you've got the hearing, when the next thing you know, how many are in the higher court whether, what decision has been made, etc. So a whole series of data that are now on the one hand making it difficult to conduct transparently in courts and which is a big problem, and I think that's very important. That's why we insist on it, and on the other hand they make it difficult for the work and the court because citizens are coming to them and asking for tests in the files, etc., they're asking questions that I can easily get to, and I'm not talking to the citizens. So when I tell the citizens it's both lawyers and everyone else. So that's something we want. We have a paradigm here because this system so far was primarily intended for statistical purposes, statistical monitoring. But he's too expensive and too sophisticated to be just a statistical tool. He'll be this, he'll be a tool for transparency. So, follow, he follows the weight and can then allocate objects. Of course, in a small number, it can never happen if you're talking about 10 objects never, but when you're talking on the annual norm, then you can. In any case, the Rules of Procedure will also now be foreseen in the future that the president may intervene if there are any too many differences. There's one thing we haven't talked about here because it hasn't been changed between two readings, but it might be changed by an amendment to the government. It's immunity. So, we are having intensive talks with the Commission and that is one of the reasons why it will not be this week at the vote, but as far as I know, because this solution that we have given and which, as you have seen, was attacked by the judicial authority by the Commission's criteria, is too wide. So it's possible that we're going to narrow down more immunity and really consciousness it in the constitutional category, because the fact is that with what we're going to do, we're going a little outside the Constitution. We defend it, we defend it, we have reason to. Because we want to avoid, above all, exceptions that are unnecessary and chicane. That's why we put it this wide. But to be clear, he's out of the Constitution. The constitution is a lot tighter. The constitution only speaks of immunity to the exercise of judicial duty, not what we predicted. And point, there's no more. And now I'm announcing an amendment possible in that sense means where immunity will still be relevant to what it is. And to be honest, there's a question of why to defend it more, because what we've put in place as we see the judicial authority is not good. I guess they'd have absolute immunity. So here, we'll see now from the talks and with the Commission. What was very important to me was the Justice Strategy in front of you and there was talk that it might be late. But look, you'll see all the laws that come to you, come from that strategy, or it comes from them, I don't know, I'm not a man of strategy. I'm more like this than more concrete stuff, but it comes from the Strategy. You will see that we are one consistent in that and what we are there, what you have adopted you will see in these laws. And I think it's important now and in the future. So we have an indicative document that actually gives the general direction, and everything we do goes from that. The debate on who brings out or gives a report on the judicial authority is absolutely founded, because we have ideas all of which, by the Constitution, an independent body and we will see. We'll see what will bring us the future. Let's go with this. This is a big shift, we've never had it. We'll see. Here next year, maybe we'll talk about being president of the DSV just like the president... Because we've had a report from the Attorney General for 10 years but we don't have a President of the State's Attorney's Council, and they have the same role as DSV here as the courts. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] A judicial academy isn't about that. The President of the Supreme Court shall act as the President of the Management Board or the Council of the Judicial Academy. So he can talk about her too because he represents her. With the Justice Academy, the problem is what you said. That's how we set it up. We as a ministry, so we don't run away from responsibility, but we don't have any influence on it except when it comes to budgeting. What they surrender, whom they educate, and to what extent they decide for themselves. The Judicial Academy Program Council is sitting with judges and state lawyers and they manage the program. The board of directors, president and president of the Supreme Court, deputy and chief state attorney, 11 members, justice minister one. I'm the only one from the ministry. So that's what it's all about. So we set it up, so it was time to agree. Now is not the time to open some things overnight and we just need to see, if they don't give good solutions we'll give here before you but that autonomy is a good thing we just need to measure how we're going to and which means one balance. We were talking here about some general debate, about a state of justice, that's also one thing that needs to be done, I have to admit we're here in the ministry except for these laws, except, I'm not going to tell you about the prison system that you're going to do when it's a report, and you can think what we have there, which we don't have, the situation in courts, etc. We've got monitoring. We have a mission of experts this week, and we had a few weeks ago, which are very important to us. And we're spending a lot of effort on that, too. Maybe now is not the time to open a debate about justice, there might be time for that in the second part of the year. So let's go one by one, and this is the basis for that debate. So, one more thing about the OIB and the databases, we have concluded protocols recently with the MUP and others not only for the courts but also for the notebooks, so some things will be much easier and cheaper which is very important. This is not the subject of the Courts Act, not directly, but we want to spare the parties from it. We want to spare them from paying unnecessary taxes, etc. for information that can be obtained from an insight into the base. It doesn't work all the way it's supposed to, but it'll work. I mean, that's something when you establish it takes time until it's all agreed together. Here's how it is, I really appreciate the support of this law. I say, here's the question of immunity. I'm announcing a possible amendment, but I'm glad you think we're doing well in this regard. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31899	Thank you, Minister. We have two replicas, Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31900	Here's the Honorable Minister I couldn't resist, that's what the theatre jargon says you gave me good cream. Like this, you said you'd be tracking what's going on with the cases in court online will be monitored. Imagine what will happen not to cases that have been dealt with in courts for decades, which will happen to computers. Three generations of computers will pass and the case will remain in the same place so the computer will no longer recognize the case because some cases are in court. Let's say Mr... The one I keep talking about is 35 years, now it's in the second month of the 35 years that it's getting rid of. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Then at that time when the gentleman... started with that trial of theirs then were heart computers were as big as hydrothermia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Today we cut those computers to a minimum. As this computer his object can, it will have great difficulty. Honestly, when it comes to courts, I'm a pessimist. And you know pessimists are well-informed optimists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31901	Thank you. Next replica, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31902	Thank you, Vice President. Ministers of Pure Reference to what you said about us being under surveillance, to talk to... missions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, that is precisely why, let's not have a complex on the whole debate because reading the European Commission's documents last here only since the negotiations started from 2005 to today. Sometimes you have the impression that more people who are very, very far away from Croatia, in shades and details about problems in the Croatian judiciary than it may have come before a wider circle of people than those who are closely involved in this area. That's an important question. The timing, I agree with you, may be up to the moment until we get in too fast, but this wasn't a suggestion from today to the end of the monitoring. This is a long-term suggestion where, regardless of these nuances, the Croatian Assembly may have an impact on the government's trinity on some topics. Relations between the judicial authority, the executive authorities and the legislative authorities have been resolved by the Croatian Constitution. I think most democracies are similar, I don't think that such a move should upset judges, but I think they're in the best interest of getting out of the way somehow. So many discussions among the lawyers in Croatia, among judges, lawyers, state lawyers, let us not have any excessive fears that this debate would not lead to the Croatian public. It was a suggestion and she's going in a longer-term direction, not necessarily just to monitor. Believe me, I'm very aware of all the details, but it's already quite another topic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31903	Thank you, too. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. And now I'm establishing a 10-minute break. ... What? ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Because I'm the chairman. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We'll continue in 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31904	Final draft law on courts, second reading, P.Z. No. 217. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting on the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who is it to decide on the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes, 92 votes for and 2 votes abstentions, have adopted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like to ask the Government's representative, Deputy Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković Kunst. Amendment number 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31905	Thank you very much, Mr. President. We accept that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31906	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. I'm interested in an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31907	Therefore, the statement of that provision is made in accordance with a specific law. It's a nomotechnical device.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31908	I'm opening a debate. There's no request for a hearing. I'm closing the debate. I would like to make a statement on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 82 votes in favour, 24 votes against, 7 abstentions of Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31909	The reasons for this amendment are not only nomotechnical but it is in order to establish the appropriate independence of the judiciary by deleting the provision of Article 40(2). With this provision, European Commission experts have shown us that such a provision threatens the principle of independence of all judges in decision making and we propose that that paragraph 2 be made. It's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31910	I'm opening a debate. There's no interest in the debate. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the votes were 83 votes in favour, 26 votes against and 5 abstentions of Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, please give me an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31911	This amendment is proposed to coordinate the general session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Instead of saying I give an opinion on the appropriate statement, it would be determined because it harmonizes the statement of provision 48. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day The final draft of the law and the interpretation of the provision should be harmonised, i.e. we propose that it be brought into line to discuss behind words and add words by linking the provisions of Articles 79 and 48 in the same way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31912	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour and 32 votes have been abstentioned to Amendment No. 3 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has become an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are moving to the amendments of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities. Amendment 1 only.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31913	The government accepts the amendment of the Committee on Human Rights and the rights of national minorities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31914	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I ask that we make a statement on the final draft of the law, in fact, I am concluding the debate on amendments and the text of the law. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. This requires half the majority of all MPs, the total number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament, i.e. 76. Please make a statement. Who's for the final bill? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 87 votes in favour, 11 votes against and 3 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Courts in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31915	My colleagues and colleagues, we continue to work. We move on to: - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, second reading, P.Z. No. 211. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the Law shall apply to the adoption of laws. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You've received reports. Is it on behalf of the promoter, Minister Orsat Milenic? Here you go, Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31916	... that it is not always necessary to solve everything through a tight work, because there are people who simply can't do it because of some lack. [[The speaker is not on, you can't hear it.]] Then we received an attack from the Association of Judges and the Supreme Court, therefore from the same judicial authority. But it's a proposal that's good and we've accepted, so he's right in front of you. So the State-Court Council, the same body that can resolve someone or appoint a judge, will assess whether they should be sent to assess their medical ability. If the judge refuses to do so, that is the reason for the resolution and it is so set up and clearly there is no executive authority in it, only the DSV decides, so the same body that appoints them and resolves them. So why don't you give him and this power that's much smaller than these, let me tell him two of the greatest powers. The second thing, we've talked a lot and it's connected to previous laws but primarily the Law on Courts, strengthening the responsibility of the President of the Court, we're introducing three new grounds for resolution. In practice we saw and our inspection has seen, many times you don't really have a choice because there are no elements to resolve and we think it should be because the situation wasn't good. Now we're introducing three new ones here. And what is very important, therefore, is that we recognize that doing the affairs of the judicial administration is contrary to the rules, not taking measures under the president's power to work effectively, it primarily concerns old cases and failure to implement the programme in the process of appointing the President of the Court. Now that's what's very important, because in these laws it's being passed and that's what we've already put in place and what you've supported, it's that future presidents of the courts are going to present their program, we plan to make it public, why not see who said they would. The Minister of Justice will give an opinion on this, and we will also see implementation, if it does not, we will ask for a resolution. So, of course, there's always objective reasons, there may be no means, but if there's no objective reason why someone didn't meet the program then there's, there's a control year, so next year, or you did what you said you'd do or didn't do. If you're not, and there's no objective reason why we're looking for a solution. So it's an extremely important novelty, and it's connected to that of giving an opinion on the candidate and the programme. It's hopefully, I don't hope, I'm sure it'll be a good tool, of course we'll need time to establish it. I'll tell you, we're talking here and these are all good elements, but at this point we have two people in judicial inspection, all the courts and judges as many as there are, just two. That's the situation, we'll have almost more because we've opened an internal tender. Here's what we expect the judges to call us so we can fill out that judicial inspection, because it's important to us for this regulation. Only judges can be there. And the next thing we think is very important, it's transparency in the appointing process, through two elements. Here they were even in the Assembly of Suggestions that, you know, that famous interview where they get 20 points, so they were suggestions to increase the number of points on interviews, were suggestions to drastically decrease. We decided to keep the same number of points, but it has to be explained why someone got a certain number, because it's a decision on whose fate it depends, someone didn't go on because they got 4 instead of 5, so let's see which explanation for it. It is, we consider a very important thing, also the sea and only the decision to appoint to be reasoned, because the explanation is what preserves the democraticity of the process, which reduces the possibility of arbitration. Next, in practice, we knew that these transfers were voluntary, because only they were possible, but the transfers where you from one court moved to another then to the one from which the person who moved is being asked from the ministry for a new job, a new judicial post. And now I'm asking the president why you let them go? Well, that's how it was, etc. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Very important, it will be transparent to know why someone goes from somewhere, whether they are family reasons, whether they are business reasons, etc. And finally, what I really don't see is again, and I don't think it's necessary, because when you look at the changes to this law that they contain, we're just going over reading differences here, remember what we had in the first reading, they're really important and big. And then from all that, we come to a debate about property cards. That's all you talk about here in this law, property cards, so it's absurd. The property cards are in the public settlement so far, so we haven't got the public on anything that didn't exist yet, we haven't even invented the property cards that didn't exist, they exist, they're public. Only in practice they weren't public. And what we did, we said we had to deliver them all within eight days on request. This is not a reasoned request because we wanted to avoid the current situation under which the legal act actually arranged a way for a hundred reasons, fences, etc. that this is in practice difficult to implement. Here we've said eight days, it's an appropriate deadline, but whoever's giving them and who's keeping them, who's collecting them, the fateal authority, of course, is the reason for the security that's out there, so of course all the data that can threaten someone's safety will be removed, so that's their job. They're also a judicial authority, so it's not an intervention of someone on the side, we're leaving this still within the domain of the judicial authority, but we say you'll do something within a certain time limit. So here are the changes compared to the first reading, I thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31917	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Unless you do. I'm starting a club debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31918	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Minister, for these few colleagues and colleagues again in the late evening of the opposition, thank you for the laws of power. And I agree with them, of course, it turns out at a time like that, it's world wonders, so it happens at times like that. Four good things happen in this bill, one and the first, and it seems to me the most significant in my opinion is to improve the public and transparency, primarily in the way judges are asked and the need to make that famous conversation that was the subject of an assessment and not to be assessed as having to be argued. In those conversations, people were passing and falling and there was no idea why, whether because they were unblemished or because they weren't ours. If it will have to be argued so as to be visible to everyone, this problem could at least be removed in most parts. It's the same thing with the public and the transparency of judges' assets. Judges are too important and work too hard in Croatia, in every country to be doubted about. The judge's suspicions in fact cancels his work, which is why it is crucial that these property cards be made publicly available in the way that this part of the government decides but not by deciding that this cannot happen except for the State Judiciary Council or that no one else can do so. I can't say that because these same people don't work with the State Judiciary Council just because they work with Croatian citizens, they are also responsible through their state judicial council and Croatian citizens as we are all responsible for them. Therefore, their property should be as transparent as the property of all public government and similar officials. The second aspect is rationality. The law tries little by little, step by step, to rationalise certain things that were still quite bad were quite irrational examples of the recruitment of judges will be possible according to this proposal only as planned, so there is no employment from today until tomorrow, there is no employment because I am good with the minister or some in the State Judicial Council but is employed according to a specific plan that applies in a certain way and outside there is no. The minister actually told us about the transfers where the irrationalities were hiding. I would like to stress that the transfer request is assessed according to the needs of the court, of course and where necessary by the judge for family and similar reasons as well as merits. This is one of the few examples of legal acts in the Republic of Croatia where you express an accent with... So from average, with an equal view of everything it puts on a metricocracy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So a man needs something between the sharpness of all the other reasons that exist. A man needs to earn something, i.e. a request cannot be granted to a judge who has his entire working life or a good part of his working life shuts down, his cases are returned to him, his judgments are annulled, and now his system needs to go hand in hand when he wants something or needs it. Well, he can't do that. The third aspect is the possibility of a court president being resolved. It is good that this resolution is not carried out under the same procedure as the judges are resolved because the chairmanship of the court is not a judicial function, it is a administrative function, administrative, administrative, judicial and administrative function however you wish, but it is not a judicial function. Therefore, there is no reason for the same procedure to be followed by the judge's discharge and the court's president's resolution, and this has been well noticed by the applicant. For the first time, the President of the Court is responsible for the full functioning of the court, both for delays and for the urgency and for the success and for everything expensive, which is its function. Well nominally, he's been responsible for it so far as the court's head but there were no sanctions if he didn't do anything. So my God disobeyed him, so he did nothing. That changes now. One more thing I liked, constantly about things I liked, administrative silence in the appointment of the President of the Court, if the Minister or the State Judicial Council within a certain time frame, it seems to me that 30 days is not giving their opinion on the proposal for the President of the Court, the opinion is considered positive. This principle is one of the good democratic principles that should be passed through a bunch of Croatian laws, those where the administration, administration, the ministry has already stopped anyone for months, stopping years in some kind of smart business because here they have time to make a solution. The deadline after which the solution is assumed to be a positive solution is an excellent solution, excellent for this situation. And the 4th aspect is good is not really a tight responsibility but the possibility of a judge being sent for a medical examination. We know all examples of people who work in the courts of the sick, unfortunately, there is no way that the President of the Court or anyone else has affected them so far. A provision like this would allow, and I can't say rudely to get rid of people like that but to get them out of work that I can't do. I would pray only if it is possible by amendment to the Government or by any means possible to change in Articles 12 and 16 of the word qualities in terms of ability. And the minister here spoke of the abilities to be questioned. It's about abilities, properties have substances. Metals have these properties, non-metalous properties, people have abilities and they are being examined in this medical examination. That's not the problem I'm guessing. Breaking the code is no longer a major violation. Maybe it's good because the code isn't really some act of law whose violation should be sanctioned, but if it is, is there any other function for that code? So if his violation isn't a major violation, what kind of violation does it constitute a violation of the code? I don't suppose there are any other violations. Well, maybe it would be nice to think that the code just moves away like that. Of course, the Labour Club will support the law as seen from the discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31919	Thank you. We have a replica of Branko Vuksic. Here's my colleague Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31920	Dear counterpart Vuljanic, I agree with you, it is very important in this law to determine the public appointment of judges, meaning the transparent and public replacement of judges as transparently, to know why the judges are appointed, which is why the judges will eventually be removed. One of the very important things that, according to the minister's speech, he said he didn't know why such a... caused that provision, in fact, that it existed before and it was a property card. Well, it's easy to pass a law that no one has ever respected. Now all of a sudden, the judges need to follow the law. Well, imagine that insolence when a judge should obey the law. What all Parliamentarians imagine is not even making up a new provision of the law but just say let's apply this law. All those who have earned money through work, inheritance, gambling or good marriage have no fear. I don't know what they should be afraid of. No one has anything against a good judge. For what? We're not a society that wants poor people. But we certainly have against those judges who got rich, and for that they don't have cover in the tax card. And they need to present that tax card in a way that the minister has previously explained normally that it cannot be misused. Therefore, I agree with you when you said that we support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31921	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP club Vesna Fabiančić-Križanić. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31922	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us is the Final Proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council, the third in a series that we are all unisonally agreed to do an exceptional improvement in our judicial system. And I think it doesn't matter whether we agree to improve quality in the morning or later evenings if they enter into an important segment and pillar of society like the judiciary in this way. The Law on the State Judicial Council adopted in 2010 was a significant step in democratisation of the judiciary. Of course, it all happened together in the process of meeting the conditions for closing chapter 23, when it is simple to say the condescending principle that judges are the ones who choose, improve and punish judges. This resulted in legislative immunity from the influence of the executive authority, and two amendments to the State Judicial Council Act during 2011 were also followed by the fulfilment of the conditions for closing Chapter 23. The first amendment in 2011 resolved the jurisdiction to decide on the immunity of judges, incompatibility in the conduct of the actions of members of the State Judicial Council in procedures where candidates or judges are relatives, spouses in relation to fosterers or the like, as well as the procedure of assessing candidates if they would thus ensure a quality choice. Therefore, these first changes were in the wake of strengthening the independence of the judicial authority, preventing the possibility of conflict of interest and opening the preconditions for the choice to be as high-quality as possible. Other amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council were also the reason for meeting the conditions for the closure of Chapter 23 and were in the direction of rationalisation of the case and achieved the possibility of a provisional schedule of judges from one court to another when there is a need for increased inflow of cases. This third amendment of the Law on the State Judicial Council is in line with the obligations of the Republic of Croatia in the follow-up and enforcement of its obligations after the provisional closure of Chapter 23. In order to carry out the duties of the President of the State Judicial Council or of a member of the State Judicial Council, a legislative framework is now being established to reduce the scope of their judicial duties. We consider this a proper approach because otherwise it is an unfair situation with fellow judges if they had a level playing field. The reduction in the exercise of judicial duty to the President of the State Judicial Council by 75% and the 50% balance between the responsible and extensive duties of the President of the State Judicial Council or a member of the State Judicial Council and their judicial duties. We also believe that these changes lead to greater transparency in the process of relocating judges and electing judges. As is a transparent and measurable score in the election of judges, the introduction of an obligation to explain the number of points obtained in the conversation is certainly on the trail of the transparency of the election. Among the judges themselves, there were a lot of dissent over the number of points that individual candidates received on the basis of interviews, and they were not reasoned, and therefore neither measurable. We also support the non-resolvement of cases in order to take them into court as it is settled by the Court Act because it is certainly on the trail of solving both old cases and on the trail of solving more complex cases and avoiding statistics being achieved by choosing easier cases. The introduction of a newspaper that, in the event of a suspicion of permanent loss of ability to conduct a judicial duty, the judge is obliged to undergo a medical examination is certainly also on the trail of a more quality trial. The increasing powers of the president of the courts, but also their responsibilities, are also on the trail of efforts to make the most of the judicial authorities. In our first reading of these amendments to the Law on the State Judicial Council, we proposed to the Proposer that an adequate solution be made to the issue of property cards. We are pleased, of course, that this proposal has been adopted and this final proposal provides that the State Judicial Council is obliged to provide insight into the property application within 8 days of the date of submission of the written request. The segment of these statements was as we heard from the Minister of Resistance, and it was most written about it. And we're all on the same track, and we're all talking about zero tolerance to corruption, transparency, we agree that both executive and representative power, and I think that's the way it should be in the judicial power, the more transparent it is. The greater transparency, the closer we are to the goal of making any degree of corruption or conflict of interest as little as possible. The independence of a judge in a particular case will certainly not be affected by the transparency and visibility of whether he is the owner or co-owner of a company or company or similar. And finally to recapture, all these changes and additions are required for the State Judicial Council to be an independent and independent body that ensures the independence and independence of the judicial authority in the Republic of Croatia. And for the sake of the above mentioned SDP club, it will support these changes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31923	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HNS club Nada Turina-Đuric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31924	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The CNS will support this Final Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council. I will refer to the part highlighted in the opening explanation by the minister, that is, the part that speaks about what we have been able to change, that is, where the most resistance was to change and supplement. We in the CNS believe that no one's independence and autonomy and neither can judges be a cover for potentially non-transparent work, for self-responsibility, for irresponsibility, for inefficiency. Of course, it must not be in the courts or the judges. No one but priority suspects, but any doubt must be removed as it is for any public duty. That's what we're witnessing, and we're in the legislative, representative government, so we put ourselves in public, in control of the public. In the last few years significant developments have been made in this direction, therefore also with the executive authority, therefore the judicial authority can and must be exposed to that assessment, i.e. some data must be available to the public. The proposals in this law are simply mechanisms that do not endanger anyone's independence but that, in our opinion, raise reputation and preserve the profession and honor of most respected judges because, as in all professions, the fact is that most people are very responsible and very correct in doing their job. But of course there are always those who go for a variety of reasons against their profession and against those of some of the best ropes that the profession should respect, and that is, all that is proposed in this Law is one good way to separate what the grain says from the weeds which in the judicial authority and regarding judges is extremely important because through these proposals that are in the Law on the State Judicial Council, the return of citizens' trust in judges is most important in courts. The return of trust and the fact that judges are the best we can have and which we can choose, and I think it's first and foremost in the interest of them to be so. So, the discussion of this, about the transparency of the appointment, about their state of property cards is something that will contribute significantly to the reputation of the judges themselves. This proposal in the law that with an interview, i.e. at a point in the judge's interview, and an explanation of why someone got a certain number of points, we consider it an excellent novel because it is something that should be applied not only to judges. We would also like to see it during the election and for some other very important and responsible professions such as medical professions where it would be just as good to know why someone has just been elected to a certain responsibility. The whole series means these provisions that are related to the election, and where the minister has also highlighted this proposal that the State Judiciary Council may refer to the judge for medical examination. We know that we can all find ourselves in certain situations that we are not even aware of ourselves or that our narrow surroundings on them can for certain reasons point to our problems, it is good that in the system of the DSV judiciary can do this step and direct someone to a medical examination and check his and his physical but also mental and all other abilities to perform such an important function. Here is the law which means it is going towards raising quality to the benefit of the judiciary, for the benefit of our citizens, so the Croatian People's Party will support this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31925	Thank you, too. On behalf of the HDZ club Ana Lovrin. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31926	Thank you very much. Mr. Vice-President, Mr. Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues of the Croatian Democratic Community Club will support this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the State Judicial Council. Therefore, it is true that the Law on the State Judicial Council was adopted in 2010. Of course, then as a special law, here is the State Judiciary Council, sometimes within the Law on Courts, is a body that chooses judges and solves for many years. The provisions on his work and his authority, I would say, have been riding for years, improving, choosing seems to be, ensuring the increasing transparency of the election, but the story and the inscription will always be. Here I see and now a current despite the fact that we have reduced the points from the interview to 20%, so something that has been assessed as a balance compared to that absolutely objective criteria of written examination or the assessment of the work of judges already in the system. So here's the introduction, and now I would say that first of all I want to say that we are glad because many of the comments are highlighted in the debate in the first reading accepted and incorporated into this final text of the law, so we won't talk about them anymore. What I think is absolutely good is that this law clearly defines the position of judges appointed before 31 December 2012 so as not to dispute their further progress in their career or the transfer of judges as they could be asked a question that they do not have a state school. Well, since so far, it was actually a situation if the judge went to another court that he had to be resolved from one court and appointed to another and there was a question of whether he could even name himself a judge. So now these provisions have resolved the situation. It is also good that it is included in the law this provision which appears to be a transparent transfer of judges as the minister says so. Voluntary transfer. I don't actually know what's going on at all, I don't personally see any basis legally as it happens but well. So, we've had cases in the previous years that were going on anyway, that the judge was elected to one court, and then he ended up in the fifth court, and this court where he was appointed was squirming in cases etc. Here's what I think is right now is that this move of judges is done as transparently as it has been for the state's attorneys so far, and the State's Attorney's Council has been doing it that way. So, what matters is that there is a need for judges, a possibility to move, to make a list of championships according to all who wish to be permanently or temporarily transferred and to take into account the fulfilment of their judicial obligations over the last two years. It therefore appears to be a list of championships and a percentage of compliance with the framework criteria and that the decision to relocate is based on, of course, taking into account the needs of the court and the one from which it is moved and the court to which it is transferred. As for the strict responsibility of judges, Vuljanic asked a good question if his behaviour contrary to the judicial code, which there is an argument that the judicial code is actually a set of principles that should be acted upon, but if there is absolutely no sanctions, if it does not behave according to that code, then the question is why would it, apart from some course of instructive norm and perhaps mutual respect, do not know how to say it. But the question really opens up. The new cumbersome act introduced by this law is if the judge is in a resolution, so the Law on Courts says that cases must be settled in the order of admission if it is not urgent cases, and then it is also a serious injury, or a phasing-out act, if the judge does so without justifiable reason an important deviation from the order of receipt, or does not take account of its urgency. In my first reading, I warned of this important issue because it is already a corruption without a reasonable reason that makes it possible for the DSV to assess the justification of the reason, and then it does not need to give up because it never knows what it is. Whether it matters 5 items, 10 items, 25 items, but we have similar provisions, so it's not a newspaper. The existing law also states that a particularly strict procedure will be initiated and says one provision if, without a reasonable reason, the number of decisions taken by the judge over a one-year period is important below the average in the Republic of Croatia. Now it's below the number of decisions by framework criteria, but the same thing doesn't know what's important, is it 5%, 10%, or how much, and who's going to determine what's important, and in the case of continuum measures, that's what major misdemeanors should be, as well as in criminally clearly defined what is a major offense. In addition, the introduction of this new power to the State Judicial Council, so that it can and is foreseen by the addition of Article 78 of the existing law on a motion for resolution. Therefore, where a motion for a resolution can be put in place in the event of a permanent loss of capacity to perform a judicial duty, it shall say if it is a matter of taking the court's business ability to take the decision of the competent authority that physical and mental qualities are such that they do not allow the exercise of the judicial duty. Obviously, this possibility existed, and under the current law, only I assume it is the reason for the addition of this article that was not really known who was going to run the evaluation and the examination of physical and mental abilities because it is actually difficult to determine who the employer was. Is that the DSV he named him and has the right to resolve him or would that be the president of the court? Well, I guess that's probably because in practice, this couldn't have been done, so I guess that's the addition to this article. So, I was going to say that this isn't some big newspaper, that in some way it existed, and in the existing law only this allows for a fact-finding exercise. And I now warn the Ministers of the amendment of the Committee on Law that you will probably accept, and I see that in this terminology you are therefore subject to the judgment of physical and mental properties. The amendment of the Committee is in this Article 16 to be a medical ruling. E, but I warn you that then you have this statement, and in Article 12, don't forget where the severe injury is determined, so it would be the same if you accept the amendment to include it in this article to be unambiguous. And I see that the termology is so hard and it's looking for the best expression because in the first reading it was a doctor's journal, so it's been changed for some reason I don't know. But all I'm warning you is that it should be evened out. As for the court president's appointment process, I would like to say one more thing, the minister said now that he has completed the reasons why the court president can be resolved. So, to be seen in practice that the situation in the court is not well but that there is no legal basis for resolving the president. Yeah, I mean, this is all progress. We used to have a law on courts where absolutely nothing, there was no possibility of any resolution, so we had terrible cases of terrible behavior of the President of the Court, and we didn't have the basis of the legal. Well, that's when we said it if it offends the court's reputation, but this is now worked out. I don't think that's bad and that's good. I warn, as I warned the Committee, that this principle in Article 19, i.e. in Article 85 of the basic and which is referred to when the work programme is not being implemented in the process of designation, should nevertheless not be said by its own guilt or if there are no objective circumstances. Something should be done because such a clear statement says it will resolve this that DSV will resolve, if it does not realize the program, then it turns out that if it does not achieve it must be expanded, and maybe it will happen that it could not have achieved it with its best will and effort, that it could not for some objective reason. For example, there was not enough budget funds to implement this programme and so on. So, on the mobility of judges, we said, on the release from the obligation to perform judicial duties, it is also good to see that, according to those amendments to the law and by the adoption of the Law of the State Judiciary Council, indeed, the president has more and more duties and this provision was to be incorporated into the law. Therefore, and thank you for not erasing the provision of paragraph 2 because I think it is good for the functioning of the State Judicial Council, including the State Attorney's Council, to ensure that this mandate is complete for the whole body. Finally, something about a nonessential provision that brought a lot of attention to the public, or to judges, is property cards. I think absolutely in this way that the integrity of judges is in no way compromised, so if we wanted as an anti-corruption agent to have insight into the property of judges then they must be, being public, so we said by law that only one, one technical solution that may have now been incorporated into the sublegal law. So that power will not be the subject of gossip, as I would say, as is often and mostly the property cards of state officials, parliamentary representatives and ministers, that it is generally taken and then done with any writings and combinations. In this case, it will not be possible to do so via the Internet, that any surfer, but whoever is interested, will have the right to see, will address the request, will not have to explain why, but will have to have the State Judiciary Council deliver the card within 8 days, of course, with deleted personal data as already prescribed. Here, for these reasons, we will support this law, and what else did I want to ask the Minister, what does the European Commission say about this paper between the two readings? Therefore, in the process of appointing the President of the Court, except for the opinion directly of the President of the High Court, to seek the opinion of the Supreme Court and the opinion of the Minister. That's what I'm asking for because, in time, there was a great effort to appoint judges, as well as the President of the Courts, to completely remove and move away from the Ministry of Justice. I understand the reasons why the ministry should be involved, because there is, however, the work on the judiciary and that logistics at the end of which the funds are provided by the ministry. It's clear to me, I'm just asking if the European Commission has seen this and what does it say? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31927	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Andrej Plenkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31928	Thank you very much, Vice President. Here's colleague Lovrin you just mentioned in the end one of the important issues, so the amendment of Article 83, and knowing how much she insisted on, in the context of the negotiations on Chapter 23, on this particular concept that judges should be named in some way by their own, is that, therefore, to minimise the influence of the executive authority. It might be good if the minister gave us a little further clarification of this paper, because it is a fact that it was something that was not on the table before in the talks with the commission. It might also be good to look back at a number of media inscriptions, comments that problem the score of interviews. I think what you're proposing is a very good explanation to narrow down that channel of some sort of arbitration. I was preparing for this item of the agenda reading an article in one week today, not to quote it which, that we are not doing marketing, but really lists an amazing number of cases where according to what it says almost in a way that the interview could have affected the final result of selecting individual candidates for different courts, and in different cities. So it seems that these 20 points are relatively small in terms of the total number of points, but it obviously affected, as you yourself said, on someone's career, on someone's plans, on someone's fate. There is no ideal system, eliminate the interview entirely is not good, because it did not take these other things to put in terms of physical ability, health status, etc., it all has its own reasons. But what I'd be interested in is whether there's one objective analysis of the ministry, how many of these "problematic situations" or whether it stays this way at the level of silent suffering, and comments and the like. This is what remains a little in the air as an unpleasant situation in the important process of naming judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31929	Thank you. We're continuing an individual debate. Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31930	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. Here, with this package of laws that we call coloquially judicial, we discuss this night, so somehow for years we always like to discuss these laws in this obscenity age, but the laws are bright, they're bright, we've all said, and they'll bring a new light to the work and transparency of the judiciary that citizens expect so much. It is obvious that this bill puts the Ministry of Government in general, and I see that we agree on that we are bringing in one of the assistance that judges need, especially judges who work in the State Judiciary Council. They need help to make their decisions very important, the most important decisions they will take in their ranks, who they will advance and who they must get rid of, who they must thank, who they must thank because the judge is elected, how they are elected, and how they will behave, so will the court. And we can see that exactly, we can track it from that famous commission to today. Many judges have learned to interpret the law so creatively that it has nothing to do with the original text even though the law does not need any particular interpretation other than language interpretation. So here's my debate, and I'm going to start by referring to some of the misunderstandings that are causing some reluctance with the judicial authority, or some of the members of the judicial authority. In one English pub, there was a society, a man came and said, "I'll buy you a drink." The man sitting in the corner rebelled, you know who I am. What I'm talking about, nothing's harmless, I'm just buying. Do you know who I am? I'm an English judge. The English judge won't let anyone buy him a drink. Furthermore, I was able to ask exactly how English judge, or how many English judge norms. They didn't understand how much the judge had to solve the case, the misunderstanding again. From the third try they answer to us there is no, the judge solves the case as far as he can, and he really solves how much his intellectual and physical powers allow it, and that's as much as he can. Sometimes it's just a single object but then it's an object of thousands and hundreds of maybe thousands of pages. So he does not avoid his duty, he gladly bows down to her. He's not saying I'm not in charge or it's this court or he keeps it in a drawer. That's why an English judge would ask to show or ask English judges to show their property cards would raise a revolution because it would be an insult to them. But many countries have quite, and they already have problems, I think they will have to especially with the accumulated items. It used to be that of course there was probably a bud in that grain, but it kind of waved and it was kind of a role model for all of us. Today it is no longer, many countries are forced. Simply control every power. It's just what the public wants. Every power is questionable. The government is not a defendant, the defendant is found guilty by someone else. He is not forced to prove anything, but it is every authority to interpret and explain its decisions and because of what is most controversial, which has even caused reactions to Brussels what is happening to you, how some who have written excellently or received the most votes or points in something that is most important, making a judicial decision and an explanation, so I don't care how the judge is, is he skilled in something, what kind of policy interprets, how he has a relationship to this, how he verbally expresss himself. The most important thing is the decision he made, that he made the decision on the basis of the law and that he explained it in a destructive manner. But there weren't a number of cases like that that would have fallen off, and it was normal for it to cause a revolt. Not only has this aroused those candidates who claim to be in a position but it has upset all the public as a whole and has further disrupted the reputation of the high institution. So we are looking for, or to the State Judgment Council, to give excellent, good mechanisms to choose the best possible, not the ones he likes, or to be likable or less likable during that first encounter. Next, not just at that point, I think the right measure has been found. If someone really is so incompetent to verbally express himself, then the judges, or members of the State Judiciary Council, will be obliged to explain themselves because all is well explained. Furthermore, the proceedings before the State Judiciary Council, they were once when only the State Judiciary Council was formed, they were exceptional, now the State Judiciary Council has begun to work, these proceedings have become more and more, it does not mean that there may be more violations but they are taking over that duty they have fought so hard to decide for themselves. However, this is still insufficient and somehow gets the impression, and the public gets the impression that many behave with conformists. Recently, or several months ago, for several judges, judicial officials who appeared before the State Judiciary Council, who were late in their decisions, so the decisions not to talk about other actions that should have been carried out in the proceedings, which they did not, only counts on the conclusion of the debate and how many years or decades have passed, did not even count. They've been late to the citizens for 50 and a few years. They got by the public not exactly adequate sanctions. However, we are not here to judge these sanctions, but something that we have here to guard the state fissus of the last ten years, Croatia has been condemned to pay huge amounts for the inadequacy and inadequate work of the judicial authority. So the state pays not them. In 44 cases, there is now the responsibility of the executive. It is in the law, the Law on Courts, that when a judge makes serious mistakes, so by his guilt, he causes damage to the foreigners, and that is why the state must answer because he must compensate for the damage to such a party either directly or if such showers come to us from Europe, then proceedings should be initiated for compensation from such judicial officials. So there's a question of how many cases it's done. So all of us have to and that unpleasant part of responsibility because it's not very pleasant to eat, and it's not pleasant to judge our colleagues, it's not a pleasant task, but they've asked for those duties, so they have to take them. There's been a lot of talk here about unfortunately having cases of judges getting sick. I believe that many have become ill that they are no longer able to behave, they need to be respected, but they need to be protected and tried and protected by the citizens. I do not think that there is any dilemma in particular to justify the introduction and development of such a situation in this Law on the State Judicial Council because this is referred to directly by the provision of Article 123 of our Constitution which states that the judicial duty is permanent but that the judge will be relieved of the judicial duties and, inter alia, it is directly stated that if he permanently loses his or her capacity to perform his or her duties. Therefore, it is a direct foothold in our Constitution. But the same is true when it comes to the judicial responsibility discussed and the metrics brought only by the State Judicial Council, it tells exactly how judges, Article 122(2), that judges cannot be called on to be responsible for the opinion expressed or the vote in the decision-making process. Now follow that, unless it's a violation of the law by a judge who's a felony. So that's why I appeal again that we need it because this is what the Constitution says, the Constitution didn't delete that provision when we were missing from the Penal Code in '96, the famous, the "famous" as the state property was being taken away from us by that law, because it's not social anymore, it was socially cursed, ridiculed. Well, look at the social property. The first thing was to make fun of something to grab it. Here, and that is why it is necessary for us, Mr. Minister, to keep the judges clean and to protect them from the blatant act of breaking the law by the judge completely on the trail of the Constitution. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31931	Thank you. And the last reported Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31932	Thank you. Dear Vice President, ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. So this is one of a series of laws that the Ministry of Justice has referred to in the procedure, which I am confident will contribute significantly to the state of justice and will improve the efficiency of the courts. I think that all the club representatives have so far supported this proposal contributes to this claim. There is not even a colleague of Vinkovic to criticise, so I think it is an exceptional confirmation that this law is extremely good. During the debate on this law, I was encouraged by certain remarks that could be heard through the media and through a public debate on this law, so I would not so much refer to the other provisions of this law that I consider good and which did not cause any controversy, but to those concerning which I heard certain remarks. The first remark was on how the candidates for judicial duty were scored. There has already been talk of the fact that, unfortunately, in the media, we have been able to read a number of critical reviews precisely in the way of conducting this oral examination of the candidate, so we have been able to find out that there have been questions that have nothing to do with the expertise and work of the candidates. Through the media were insinuations on the choice of judges based on family and friendly relationships or on the promotion of judges based on these links. Such allegations and adhesion were found in the fact that certain candidates who were found to have received less in relation to influential persons on the basis of the points of their work so far but who had overtook other candidates precisely on the basis of the points of oral conversation. Of course, these doubts do not necessarily mean that these persons were chosen thanks to relationships with influential persons, were privileged but could be thrown into the shadows of those decisions because of the way they were hit so far, which is certainly not good. The discussion on the boards noted that certain candidates may not have their day due to fatigue, tremor, possibly illnesses to draw weaker results from these circumstances on oral conversation. I would therefore support the proposals that, in the future, in the future of further changes and improvements to this law, a minor point of importance is given to this oral conversation, or at least to a certain extent, that this conversation is objectively targeted in the sense that at least a part of the question to be asked to all candidates and that certain issues bear a predetermined number of points. For this very reason, I would like to commend the solution that the decision to appoint judges must now be reasoned. I believe that this is what will contribute to resolving the reluctance of appointments, and I hope that future solutions if the confirmation of the practice shows this will be according to the solution that I have suggested. The second provision that prompted certain polemics is that of the DSV's right to determine that the judge is subject to the judgment of his physical and mental qualities if the conduct of the judges or his relationship to work therefore raises doubts about the permanent loss of capacity to conduct his judicial duties. I think this provision is predictable as a consequence of the fact that the judicial duty is carried out permanently. It is simply necessary to give DSV an instrument to determine whether a particular judge, because of physical and mental obstacles, can do his job because, if that is not the case, there are physical and mental obstacles, the system has so far been powerless, there is almost nothing that could be done and therefore I believe that this provision is good and necessary. It is true that this possibility could have been hypothetically misused, but this medicine could have been what was proposed on several occasions, so the president of the DSV also submitted a report to the Parliament and I would have personally supported the solution in that direction. Another provision that has sparked controversy is the provision of Article 55a, under which candidates for the Supreme Court of Justice of the Republic of Croatia who have filed an ad application, and therefore not the judicial officials, have joined the Council to check the knowledge. I personally believe that the choice requirement should be the same for everyone, so I believe that the obligation to access the knowledge check should apply to everyone or anyone. I think that would be fully met by the principle of equality of all before the law. Otherwise, I personally support as much objectively as possible of all competitions and represent the principle that objective examination of knowledge is binding in the appointment of as many positions as possible, without distinction, whether it is judges or other persons. I would like to commend the provision which, as a reason for the launch of a tight procedure, determines the situation which the judge, without justifiable reason, significantly deviates from that order of taking cases in court of work, i.e. does not take account of their urgency. We know from practice that it is often the fact that certain cases have not been resolved for years because they have not carried out a single litigation or that certain criminal cases go out of service because of the Court’s failure or that certain cases have been resolved before and far faster than the cases that have been at work for years and are the same or less complex. The objections to such treatment were particularly common, I would say, at the Administrative Court, at least as far as I have knowledge. This is an extremely important provision which should therefore contribute to better and more efficient work, but also to curb the possibility of corruption. Personally, I would like to see mechanisms in place that would respond to any case, so in any case, when a subject has grossly skipped his order of resolution for no good reason. In any case, I would have established a judge's personal obligation to explain such a case in particular. Here I could finally say that most of the other provisions of this law that we have already agreed on are aimed at achieving more effective and better work both by DSV and judges and I would like to join in supporting the adoption of this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31933	Thank you. This is what we're done with. Minister final? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31934	Thank you very much. I wouldn't, but there were a few questions, so... The first code, mentioned on several occasions, therefore the Code has a role to play because the Judicial Council, when giving a ruling on the progress of judges and for the presidents of the court, is currently taking care of the code, so it needs to be retained and it has a role to play. We didn't want to keep him as a stupendous act because he's being overdetermined and falls into one of this whole internal spheres I'd say the order of the judicial authority. That's why it's code. The amendment to the medical examination, to the pronunciation, absolutely accept. I thank you for this intervention to amend it in paragraph 2, amendment of the Committee on Legislatives. That's why I'm gonna tell you why we walked into it like you said, because the DSV asked for a second statement. We started with the doctor's, we seemed more logical, they came and said give us this provision. We said okay, you're working it out, we're going back. Why do you even think about it because you said there's a reason to solve it so far? Because we didn't have a mechanism what if someone didn't make an assessment. That's what's important to you. You don't mind when you have that assessment, I'm guessing it's not DSV, but what, I won't submit, nobody can do anything to me and you actually have a suffering situation. That's why we introduced this, because that provision without this one doesn't mean anything. In terms of not implementing the programme, we have other statements, they will resolve for this and for what and the practice of DSV so far, it has always been taken into account, of course, how objective circumstances are, as well as everywhere in any treatment. If there's a problem here, we'll change, so far we're not intervened. As for the Commission's opinion on the opinion, so we introduced the opinion, it's not binding, so it's an extremely mild form, and we even said this is and we have a constant lack of administrative silence, so if we don't give it up, it's considered to be positive. Therefore, the opinion of the Minister of Justice is not binding in any way on the DSV. We have translated and sent all these laws, to this provision we have no objections, meaning this introduction of an opinion because it is clearly estimated that it does not mean incurring in the power of the DSV, those who are constitutional, to choose on their own. It's something that can only help in the election, in the election decision. I'll tell you that as a minister, I'm happy that I don't have the authority to choose the president in one hand, it's not easy to do, we don't have the capacity and the resolution, maybe even worse, but in the other hand sooner or later, or things will work out as they are set up or over a number of years will need to think about it. Now it's not something that's open at all, but look, it's management. The administration has to be responsible for how it works and how it implements the program, it suits the citizens. It's not a fateful power. We've gone a little bit into one extreme because we're actually managing the court and controlling whether someone comes to work in a certain place, etc., means whether they perform regular functions from the personnel further,..., but well, we're here where we are. For the interview points, the analysis, we don't have it because we don't participate in it in any way, we don't have any information about it as the Ministry, so that's what DSV does. Who, how they give, who complains, who doesn't, we don't know. But there's one other thing, so we made a system, there's one other thing why we didn't go up or down, and that's because we expected that, and that's why I said that at the beginning of mourning why the debate on all this by the judicial authorities turned this report into a card and I don't know what third -- immunity. It's something the average judge doesn't care about at all. There are certain people there who have focused on this debate, and we have avoided a debate about this. We expected that the Fatal Authority, the Association of Croatian Judges, the General Session of the Supreme Court or anyone else if they had a problem with the points would point to that. But we, apart from the individual kind of, you know, when someone's writing you a complaint that we can't at all do anything about, we have nothing. And then we said why we'd intervene in those 20 points when everyone's okay with it. Everyone complains, and everybody's fine, everybody's quiet. Well, we won't intervene either. We said, we'll introduce an explanation like we said because it's correct, it's transparent. And if they want to intervene, they must primarily target the people to whom it applies. They seem to fit this system. Because, individually, everyone complains, writes, etc. But officially everyone's silent. So that's one system that's obviously good. That's why we didn't go down or up, we just introduced an explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31935	Thank you, Minister. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31936	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council, second reading, PZ No. 211. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted amendments after the deadline set by the Rules of Procedure. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am voting the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament on a proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please let us know who's up for it? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 88 votes in favour and 25 abstentions have adopted the proposal to discuss and decide the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I would like a representative of the motionary, respected Deputy Justice Minister Sandra Artuković Kunšt, to explain the amendments of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Amendment number one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31937	Thank you very much. The article covering the statement referred to in Amendment 1 shall refer to the responsibility of the President of the Court. We believe that this amendment should also introduce the possibility to exclude the justified reasons that led to the Court's failure to implement and failure to implement the programme. So if the President of the Court doesn't realize the programme, and therefore there are reasonable reasons, we don't think there should be a solution to it. So if, without justifiable reason, it does not implement the work programme, that is the objective of this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31938	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 87 votes in favour, 3 votes against and 9 abstentions accepted Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and thus became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31939	The objective of this amendment is to specify precisely the application of the law in relation to the selection procedure of the President of the Courts. Namely, many of the presidents of the court's term of office expires in the first half of 2013 and it is mostly the 1st of September 2013 or the beginning of 2014. To determine the correct application of the law for these in the case of the election of these presidents is important and we have proposed that the procedures of their election be implemented according to this law which we are now voting on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31940	Thank you very much. I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find that most of the vote is 85 votes in favour, 31 abstentions have been accepted by Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and has thus become an integral part of the final draft of the law. We are moving to the amendments of the Legislative Committee. Deputy Deputy Minister, Amendment No 1 to Article 15.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31941	The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31942	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment No 2 to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31943	The Government shall adopt Amendment 2 to Article 16.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31944	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number 3 to Article 22 of the same law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31945	The Government accepts Amendment 3.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31946	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. For the adoption of this law in accordance with Article 226. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament need a half-way majority of the total number of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. Please state who's in favor of the final bill? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the 95 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 20 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on the State Judicial Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31947	We continue with - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Execution of Laws, First Reading, P.Z. No. 279. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You've received reports. Is it on behalf of the proposer? Go ahead, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31948	Thank you very much. Now we're jumping off the subject, but not as far as the judiciary is concerned. I'll be brief, first reading. Law amending and supplementing the Penal Code. This is 12 changes when we're in large numbers. What is basic here and what is good and what is actually strong and shows if you want and trust you as legislators to do your job well is to change the provisions on parole. So we are and it is a fundamental amendment to this law that is being introduced. So far, we have had paroled discharges arranged in a way that has been carried out by one commission of the Ministry of Justice, which consisted of three judges, one state attorney and one employee of the Department of Prison System, and they have decided on it. We were thinking that this should be part of the decision that belongs to the judicial authority. And we are now giving it to judges, judges of execution to decide on parole, introduce a second-degree procedure, so in the second degree, the Council will decide, so again we are in fact stressing the role of the judicial authority in this. Of course, some countries have one solution, some have another, but we wanted to go with this exactly to force it and make it an integral process. So whoever put someone in jail is gonna decide when they're gonna get out. That's the solution we're up to, I say we've made up our minds. It's good, I talked here and I personally with the judges of execution and they say they absolutely have the capacity to do it, knowledge and ability to do it. But we talked about the capacity of material and other that they have and that they can. We had one small glimpse of whether it would increase your costs and that's, say, something that would lead to an increase in costs, but that's a small increase in the profit that we expect through this. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31949	Thank you, too. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. According to the Rules of Procedure, I can suggest that if clubs accept a brief debate by clubs. Can we limit the hearing from 15 to 10 minutes? Thank you very much. Here's a colleague, Novak, on behalf of the Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm not going to commend you for this law, but just for reasons not to exaggerate, not to go now, but to another extreme. I'm not a lawyer, so I'm not going from the point of view of the profession, but that's what I noticed as a layman that, I don't know if I'm leaving it to you experts, but in Article 19(5), I notice that so far it's said who's running the service. Okay, now it's not called the service, it's a founding unit, but now it's not defined who's in charge. There's still a letter from the head of the service running the service, here it is, if that's all right, it's not right about that being given. But if you think you finally say you have an opinion of the profession. Let's just say we trust them. As for the amendments to your parole, what you said we absolutely support, with that if I noticed correctly again as a layman, Article 159 of paragraph 5 has so far given the warden the opportunity to give parole and this is now averted from that possibility. It's really commendable because I even as a layman managed to run into a few articles in the media di was mentioned as the possibility of manipulation, not the possibility, but as something that was happening to manipulation. What's still in my eyes is, for the purposes of this Act, no need to provide additional resources to the state budget. Electronic surveillance if he has anything to do with it, it's got nothing to do with it, the probation office, the people who work there don't work, whether it does, whether it's related to each other. I don't know, it got into my eyes that there's no increase in costs, and we're all allergic to it right now if we suspect something, not in a bad way, but in just a few other things that have nothing to do with this law. We received a report on the situation in the penitentiary and prisons that were withdrawn. I hope this law will contribute to a better condition, but just to remind you that it will be, that it will be and has been paid to prisoners so far because of non-compliance with legal conditions, substantial funds have been paid on this matter, and let's say that if my information is correct, the managers of the law and the penitentiary have, say, 24 hours of cars at their disposal. Is that really necessary? On the one hand, we pay some damage, we pay the damages I don't know what the right expression is, and on the other hand we have a little too gallant behavior. And the question I got from the field, I even have to admit that I don't know from anyone or whether it makes sense or not, is the question why law enforcement and penitentiary aren't being asked by competition, and I believe that such a thing should be included in this law. And the next question I had saved you from my colleague Lovrin, she explained to me that there was no point in even asking because it was something else. Otherwise, just so you wouldn't stay hanging out in the air, as a layman I read article 112 and as I interpreted it, it turned out that prisoners for the really most difficult acts of murder, specifically Miljenko Tot who tried to kill both the judge and the murder of the foresteer in Sisak and Mladjan Srdjan, who is far more famous, so that, in this case, the mental illness or the act of mental illness in prison would turn out to be for him to be you on more comfortable terms. But, well, that's what my colleague Lovrin explained to me. Thank you very much to her, and you can thank her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31951	Thank you. On behalf of the HNS club Marijan Skvarić. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31952	Dear Vice-President of the Parliament, respected ministers with co-workers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Well, I'm also not going to say that as a lawyer, I wouldn't comment on these laws, but still as mayor of one city, the town of Leprechaun, I know very well what they are and what it is to execute a prison sentence. So on that basis, I can really say that one set of laws that we've now had in the judiciary that these laws deal with first of all, deal with people, that there's not one law that maybe doesn't make so many changes in life since birth when you go to kindergarten, school, finish school, start doing something, deal with any other business, all that kind of activity has been followed by some kind of law. But then when we talk about the law of execution of prison, then it's something that your life, you enter into a whole new world and a new life that has all its own rules. This then speaks of when, according to the law when you are convicted, you are invited to the Municipal Court according to the place of residence or residence, you are given an instructional act to report to the criminal authority one day. So you get a solution to the reference because then you would have the right to a legal remedy i.e. the appeal is already a reference act containing the basic information on you, the punishment and maintenance to be referred to. That is, when you get your name and your last name, you are called upon to approach the court of the day of that court and to refer to an order for the length of months and years to which you have been sentenced by the judgment of the court. And you will be sent to the punishment of the prison on the day indicated. Of course, after that, you really wonder what the purpose of executing a prison sentence is, what are you going to get, or are you going to get everyone else? In that part, however, it would be said that training prisoners for life is once again at large in accordance with the law and social rules, that this can be achieved exclusively by systematic and continuous work with each prisoner, especially on the basis of an individual programme of execution of prison sentences. And what such work on that daily base even requires great supervision and requires what is said a rather complex question and a demanding and responsible procedure and realization. And in all that, it's a question for people and for their lives. This is what the Penal Code deals with, and perhaps it is one of the reasons why the law has been amended and completed 11 times since its adoption in 1909. I don't think any other law was so present that it changed. Of course, laws need to be primarily life-threatening and adapted to people. Of course, here's to briefly mention, just as the minister said, a few of the specifics that are governed by the amendments to this law are important. First, these changes are due to the new structure of the state administration body, since during this period, the regulations governing the establishment of the body of the state administration required an amendment to Article 19(5) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law on an extended way of prescribing founding units in the Central Office of the Prison System Administration. They would also define that these changes are also important because of the new provisions of the Penal Code, which in the most important respects parole of convicted persons. I would point out only a few, I think it will be said in that section, but I would also point out that the decision-making procedure is always initiated by a proposal, by a prisoner, by an inmate, by an inmate, by a member of a family of prisoners and a state attorney or by an official duty. That's where the proposal was made that there was a prison manager and a penitentiary. Well, I can also express a certain part of that official duty, above all the prison manager, because we have unfortunately a few years back today as prison managers have ended because they can always be suspected. He doubts whether it is appropriate, good or can be truly true today that he can be one procedure for one hundred anonymous applications, what you are told today is the task of extracting and deciding, and not of proving whether he really appoints it. This is really what managers after that should not hang themselves from or be immediately on the other side, returning who were a few years ago. I think it's really enough about that part that a decision-making procedure on parole can be initiated by a prisoner, a prison attorney, a prisoner, a family member or a state attorney. It would also be noted, he may point out that parole is decided by a decision of the County Court, in whose area the prisoner executes the sentence. It's a council of three judges and, of course, by which the judge executes the President of the Council or the judge of execution. This is also said, perhaps it is a matter of capacity especially if we mention the example of Lepoglava where you have a prison in Varazdin County for the County Court and a penitentiary where there is really a lot of work to do with that part. It is important to see that these capacities are satisfied, both by expertise and by other things, that there will be no specific problems and lengthy resolutions of such procedures. It is, of course, regulated that the right to appeal for a solution on conditional discharge, as well as the delivery of a powerful solution, are also in that part and in the part of the procedure for the implementation of the conditional discharge, verification, recalling and including the Prosecution Office which we have included in that Prosecution System Act and defined. I'd just like to mention for a little while that... always the laws that I said must be human, that they must be out of practice. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Here's to the practice of the Lepoglava Penitentiary for parole and allocated benefits that are, that back a few years was absolutely without abuse, for last year, so everyone who came on parole went away and there was no part of the convenience, and in 2011, there was only one abuse. Here I can really say that this is primarily a confirmation of responsibility, professional work, good judgment and the selection of people working in that part. We hope and want it to really be that way, and that it really is investing and respecting these people, and of course, in any case, these laws. Any other law that will contribute to a more humane approach to people and, in a specific case, to this proposal, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Penalty of Prisons. The HNS club, the Liberal Democrats, will support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31953	Thank you, too, fellow Skuric. Otherwise, as mayor of Lepoglava, a colleague of Škurić has one of the slogans saying, "Come to Lepoglav because you want to, not because you have to." Minister, if you didn't know, here's the chance to hear it. ... On behalf of the HDZ Club, Anna Lovrin. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31954	Good evening. Here he is, so Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. So the HDZ Club will support this one, I have calculated, a proposal to amend 15 and supplement the Penal Code. I don't think there's a lot of speech here, so it's compliance with the new 2011 and 2012 Penal Code that regulates the issue of parole and prescribes the obligation of a paroled convict, so that's why some of the provisions should be relocated from this, or eliminated from this law. And another important change is that the decision on parole is transferred from the commission appointed by the minister of justice to the judge of enforcement. I think it's good because there have been a lot of complaints that actually by making a decision on parole in some way intervenes in a sentence, so in this case it's been detained that a decision on punishment can only be corrected by a court that has acted and punished itself, I mean the judicial system. So, as the minister said, and so, in this previous commission, there was actually the most judicial authority, so the judge, the judge, the state's attorney, and I mean one member of the central prison system office. What I especially think is good, which is that more parole can't be approved by a prison manager, or a penitentiary. Well, here's what they say was called a little parole. We heard, and it was often commented in public, there were doubts about the transparency of such decisions in the justification of such decisions. No one, no one could complain about such a decision, the decision of the governor in terms of the state's attorney, etc. So, I think it's a good thing that it's been released from this law and now that parole is decided by the judge of execution. These changes, therefore, in fact, the additions to the law are detailedly arranged for this procedure, as it is being initiated. From this I read, therefore, that, apart from the proposal, it is also the initiation of the procedure under official duty, which, therefore, commits itself to the fact that the warden of a prison or detention facility in which the prisoner endures the sentence, that a month before the three-quarters of the fine is submitted to the judge for parole. So, the reason why this proposal was rejected was also elaborated, and who can initiate the procedure, so the proposal is, above all, a prisoner, his authority attorney and a state attorney. The state's attorney, therefore, has been found to reject the proposal, has been told who will check the paroled convict, so the execution judge according to the place where the convict is suspended. I think it's also worth it and it's good that it's found in the law a provision on the delivery of a valid solution on conditional release where it now undertakes that, other than, of course, the prisoner, the penitentiary, the court of reference but that it must be delivered to the Centre for Social Care according to the place in which the prisoner is released, the Police Administration responsible for the place where he is fired, the State Attorney, etc. It is extremely important that the social care centre is prepared in some way for supervision and the police administration in particular if a victim of the offence is found in the area. Here's what I said since the new Penal Code has set different deadlines, or different times that need to be served in order to even submit a proposal for parole. So it's tough, now it's half a sustained sentence, no more options after one-third. Other provisions laid down in the new Penal Code in relation to this substance, this law should be brought into line with it, and this fundamental amendment should be made to rule on conditional dismissal by a court rather than by a commission appointed by the executive authority. We believe it's good, and we support this law in our first reading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31955	Thank you. And on behalf of the SDP club Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31956	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary and the Chief of Prison System, for being in your position as Minister with your associate, colleague and colleague. Here are only the most persistent of the SDP, HDZ remained debated on this topic that is important and important to me because it is precisely in the prison system that shows how successful and unsuccessful we are and what a criminal justice or criminal policy is being conducted in one country. It's not a new saying that she said if you want to see how the state in one country is at the level of development and social and economical view her highways and tour their prison system, so it'll all be clear to you. Unfortunately, Mr. Minister, you haven't found a good condition in the prison system, it's overcrowded, it's practically hard to run a meaningful educational method in such tight or overcrowded penitentiary institutions whether they're prisons or penitentiary facilities. But here is now not about it, but in any case it is worth mentioning that what you have proposed and we have adopted here a new Penal Code, changes will dramatically improve the nature of things our situation in the prison system because that chaos that you inherited is a completely wrong criminal legal policy that is a prison for everyone. It's not a prison for everyone. You don't receive anyone there. First of all, because one day in prison is expensive and overpriced and cost the state a lot. So these changes are on the trail of further peoplessalizing the penal system, which is certainly progress in democratisation of a society here's specifically now the penal system we're talking about. So she's been introduced to me for 2000. Or 2001. For years, by passing a law on the execution of a prison sentence, and now these amendments, the executive authority has denied the works of its authority that it had in that prison system, on that penalty system and handed it over to judges. Judges who will best assess whether a convict deserves parole, whether he should be fired, and of course there are objective criteria and criteria that we have adopted in the law that we just mentioned, but surely there is a role and that one religion that motivates these prisoners, convicts to improve, to get out and return to normal life as soon as possible, because here in the name of the club SDp, which supports the adoption of this bill, can say something and personally that I still believe that a man can fix himself even though all of us together, and all of you often have an expensive life, and we make sure that every day that man is moving away and that he is corrupting rather than improving. However, we must not give up, especially those who are there. And today it's popular to say I don't care, shut it down and so, but responsible authorities don't behave like that. The state, the government that imprisoned the convicts against that person, did not stop their obligations but remained new. The role of the state through the Ministry of Justice, through its special department, through the prison system, is to do everything possible to make these people better and above all to keep their dignity unrecorded, to make mistakes even though they have done the most difficult deeds to have the opportunity to improve. Of course, we must not interfere with the idea that there are those who will never be improved, that they will never be improved, and you will see some further changes, times will show the same because society has the right to defend itself, to defend against such changes. Unfortunately, court practice also speaks of teams that are incorrigible, who have endured a full sentence, was not capital and the maximum possible time penalty, and that they have again committed serious, if not worse deeds, but the first time. So what I can only draw attention to that parole will be very difficult to get. Of course, that will also weaken motivation, so if there is more space and opportunities because we are showing one size, and the situation in prisons is too difficult to think about a little bit to loosen these conditions up. That way, the promoter and all of us together won't lose on our seriousness and our desire to have a common goal in prisons and the environment, but also to have those persons out there restored to be ready for a new life and respect for the law, but then I say we show ourselves on our own preparedness because once again, justice without mercy is injustice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31957	Thank you, too. This is what we're done with. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank the minister with the associate. We're done for tonight. Tomorrow we will continue with the Final Proposal for a Law on the right to access information. Good night.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-13-0.u31958	Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the law on the execution of prison sentences, first reading of PZE No.279. The debate on the proposal is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The draft law amending and supplementing the law on the execution of prison sentences is hereby adopted. All comments, proposals and opinions shall be made to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law. Please make a statement. Who's to suggest a conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 121 votes for the proposed conclusion. Dear fellow MPs and respected colleagues continue the work of the 7th session of the Croatian Parliament. It is next - Final proposal of the Law on the right to access information, second reading, P.Z.E. No. 198; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the bill in boxes. In the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament relating to the second reading of the law shall apply, Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. The debate on the draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, the Committee on Human Rights and the Rights of National Minorities, the Committee on Information, Information and Media. You received reports from these working bodies at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Deputy Deputy Minister of Management Zoran Piculjan.
