ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51709	Dear Mr. President, the Croatian Democratic Union is seeking a 20-minute break. We are witnessing that, at the request of the Government today, this point is put on the agenda at an incredible speed and ease – the proposal for a decision on the accession of the Constitution. Such a high speed is truly unusual for changing the fundamental law of a country, complete intransparency is actually the result of an unnecessary and unnecessarily harmful situation in which the government and the prime minister have brought us to a stubborn insistence on changes to the law and the European arrest warrant that they have finally had to withdraw by embarrassing us before the European Commission. This is now just an attempt to remove the damage done. However, HDZ wants to discuss today another initiative, that citizens' initiative on behalf of the family that submitted a request for a referendum four months ago, also to change the constitution and to be ignored. May I have a 20-minute break, please? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51710	Okay. Honorable representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51711	The SDP club is looking for a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51712	Thank you, good. HDSSB. Okay. I've been setting a break for 15 minutes. I'll see you at 9:00 and 55. Okay. It's 9:00.35. [[CONTINUATION AFTER 9:50 A.M.]] Dear colleagues and respected fellow MPs are out of time for a break. I ask the representative of the HDZ club in the Croatian Parliament to present the position of the club regarding the break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51714	Thank you very much, Mr. President. More than 4 months ago, the citizens' initiative "In the name of the family" submitted a request for a referendum with the question "Have you entered into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia a provision under which marriage is the life union of women and men". And she handed over 749 316 signatures. In the meantime, the Government of the Parliament confirmed that the number of signatures was sufficient, though it took three months to conduct trials that proved this, but well, and in fact now there is no more formal-legal reason to delay the vote. However, we are witnessing that nothing is happening. We have entered the EU. I would like to remind you that the European Commission has adopted recommendations in 2009. "green paper on European Citizen Initiative" following which the referendums should be called no later than 6 months after the proposal. In different European countries, this has been resolved differently, some have decided that after a few weeks it must be called out, in some months. However, we know that in Croatia neither the Law on Referendum nor the Constitution determine within which deadline a referendum should be called, but such a delay causes serious doubts in every Croatian public that they want to manipulate the citizens once again and their clearly expressed will, i.e. delay the vote. It should be recalled that the SDP and the coalition in the previous elections received the authority that behaves in such an absoluteistic way that we witness every day thanks to the votes of 957 thousand voters. With what right, then, is he stalling with the exercise of a clear will just a little less, 750 thousand voters? Does he really want to sabotage himself and play it so directly and in the least democratically expressed will of such a large number of Croatian citizens? We all remember very well that just 3 years ago, the president of SDP, Mr Milanovic, signed a petition on amendments to the Labour Act and then invited all citizens to give their signature so that this referendum could be held saying it concerns every citizen and every family, raising the referendum on pedestal at that time. How come suddenly the referendum doesn't matter at all? Does the postponement of the referendum seek to diversify the public's interest in the matter? Does the Croatian citizens really want to be deprived of the right to declare, by respecting, of course, all human rights, that they want to regulate Croatian society and think maybe by ruling that, as in some past times, they can impose on all citizens their opinions and the worldview and everyone will have to follow it out of fear? We are also witnessing the fact that the whole issue may want to be delayed to a sudden conclusion so that in the meantime those amendments to the Constitution that the ruling one wants and then of course said that there is no point in bringing one after another so quickly, let it wait with it a little bit. Does the Croatian citizens again want to be forbidden to think differently and speak from what the rulings have determined? Without consensus, without transparency, we are witnessing that the prime minister is calling on the leaders of opposition parties, trading with them, promising to get support to change this version that the government has proposed. Let us remember, however, what it was in 2010 when constitutional changes were also being made, as Mr Milanovic was then saying. He spoke of the need for consensus, the need for agreement, called for compromise, and, in fact, resented when the compromise was reached, he resented that the then government, led by the HDZ, did not accept 100% of all SDP requirements. It is interesting that the HDZ is now not even invited to discuss it at all, but is being the largest opposition party but is talking to everyone else. Regardless of all the non-transparency that will certainly be spoken of today, we ask the Croatian Parliament to make a decision to call a referendum without delay and to cheat on the public. There are 750 thousand citizens behind that requirement, and behind this proposal that today wants to force us to discuss is one man or just a few people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51715	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, Honored Representative Igor Dragovan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51716	Today, the agenda is the launch of an initiative to change the Constitution, and after today's debate, the talks between the parties both the opposition and the opposition parties will begin. Everyone will have the right to make their proposals and speak openly. First, he complains there is no dialogue, and then when there is a dialogue with opposition parties, it's no good either. Well, you're not the only opposition party here in this Croatian Parliament, and you can't have the exclusive right to be asked first, and the rest of you have to wait their turn. Therefore, there is a certain order of talks, agreements, and negotiations, and in this story it is likely that there will be a conversation if there is a will to talk, if there is a will to talk very gladly. The door is open and we are ready to talk about this subject as well. I suppose, I hope, and I expect that you are absolutely ready to support one important thing, which is to abolish the statute of limitations for heavy murder, and I think that it suits all of us here in this House to finally clear up all the things that may have been fought by certain political battles absolutely unnecessary. The fact is also that we believe that at this point, and this is the same constitutional category, each should contribute to calming tensions and passions about the situation that we unfortunately have in Vukovar, and only because politics is behind the fact that there is no constitutional law on national minorities, and that there is politics, a policy that has gone to the elections in Vukovar. The policy was lost in the Vukovar elections with the latest locals, is the people who pretend to be standing in a particular headquarters were political players and played a political game and lost the election. This should be reminded, it should be told the Croatian public that this is not only a story about the battle for certain interests but is exclusively a battle for political interests. Croatian citizens and all those who have put their signature on the referendum and this initiative and petition can very clearly be told here that, in accordance with the law and the Constitution, everything that needs to be respected and their signatures, and all that they have given as an initiative, this Croatian Parliament will respect and, within all the deadlines recommended, it will all be held together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51717	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the HDSSB club and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51718	Thank you very much, President-in-Office. Fellow MPs and fellow MPs, Your Honor, Mr. Minister. What does the proposal for a decision on accession have to do with the amendment of the Republic of Croatia's Constitution and the proposed suspension due to a referendum for which 740 thousand have been offered to forgive me by some more thousands of citizens who have signed a petition for a referendum, and the censorship is 10% of the number of voters enrolled, and I think this is 20% of the voters in the Republic of Croatia? There is so much that the constitutional changes should first and foremost refer to the referendum. In the Croatian Constitution, Articles 45, 81, 87, 98, 133, 142 and 145, so to speak, regulates the right to referenda and everything else that is related to the referendum but does not regulate one essential element or essential provision, which is the deadline for the referendum. And that should first and foremost be introduced into the Croatian Constitution. As my colleague Reiner said before me, there are those who have set a six-month deadline for holding the referendum but the signatures of 740 thousand people bind us to the Croatian Parliament, Croatian national representatives who have been elected by Croatian voters and voters, therefore of these 740 thousand to carry out the referendum. If the Ministry of Administration, and it has counted and properly registered 740 thousand signatures if we are not afraid of the people and God that in this way I would say I would not suspect anyone, delay, divulge the need of those who have signed their signature for this initiative in the name of the family as it is already called. A referendum in Switzerland, let's say, is being held a little bit. Here was the referendum on the construction of Islamic objects. The citizens said theirs, no one objected, nor those who proposed a referendum nor those who voted. The people have decided how it will be and all to say is satisfied but it is the people's decision. The referendum is the highest form of democracy in any country that exists. Demos Cratein, the people rule. 740 thousand 20% of the RS electoral body, so the adult citizens decided and signed the referendum. There is no right for either the Croatian Parliament or the Government or anyone to defuse or in any way bypass that initiative, but we just need today to make sure that we determine when this referendum will be implemented. So such a relationship with this package of 740 thousand can be called neglect and importance and roles but also the importance of the referendum as the highest form of democracy in any country. You can go to the elections and you don't have to go out but the referendum is something that, and at the referendum you can go out or not go out, but if someone's gathered, and even more signatures have been collected on the Labour Act, so we know how this initiative went, I don't think I'd mind the finger, but I'd suspect that this second time collected enough and more than enough signatures for this referendum and the will of the citizens to vote on the referendum issue must be respected. We need here as people's representatives, representatives of the people, citizens who elected us here, do we feel that way at all or are we alienated from the people and from the citizens? Well, gentlemen, you have to respect that. You can't talk about it like this. Therefore, I think it should be suggested that some conclusion of the Croatian Parliament and also in connection with this pause and the questions asked when the Croatian Parliament should determine in which time a referendum will be held with a referendum on the referendum issue signed by 740 thousand citizens. And nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51719	Thank you, Your Honor. Now we'll move on to the debate on the agenda point. On behalf of the promoter, I would like to ask the honourable representative, Pejo Grbin, to present a proposal and an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51720	Dear Mr. President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, Your Honor, In accordance with Article 147. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia is proposed by the representatives of the SDP to the Assembly to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution, i.e. the adoption of a Decision on Accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. This proposal proposes the addition of Article 31(4). The Constitution in a way to prescribe that, in addition to the part previously mentioned in that provision, the Constitution of statutes of limitations cannot even take place for the crimes of serious murder committed by political initiatives. We will remind you, Article 31(4). The constitution is prescribed: "The crimes of war profit and the crimes of conversion and privatisation committed at the time of the Homeland War and peaceful reintegration, war conditions and direct threats, independence and territorial integrity of the state prescribed by law. Or one that doesn't become obsessing over international law. The property benefit achieved by or related to these works will be subtracted. The crime of a serious murder committed by political initiatives or politically motivated murder is not a new crime.". So this proposal is not about bringing into our criminal justice system a new qualified form of crime, a serious murder committed by political initiatives already exists and represents a special form of serious murder committed by other low-level initiatives described in Article 111 of the new current Penal Code, or earlier in Article 91 of the Old Penal Code, 1997, etc. Politically motivated crimes and not only murders that are certainly the most difficult form of such crimes but also kidnappings or other crimes are generally the result of the action of a group of individuals acting outside the context of a state apparatus. When we describe them as terrorism, and we regularly sanction them without any kind of fur. However, such politically motivated crimes are also too often the result of the actions of various states and of those encouraged by individuals. History has shown that countries or systems that have encouraged and carried out such forms of illegal behaviour have absolutely no desire to initiate proceedings and sanction those supporters of such regimes that have committed, encouraged and ordered the conduct of politically motivated crimes and particularly murders. Which is why for such crimes when the conditions for their persecution are finally met. In view of the fact that in our past spaces, in the name of various regimes and ideologies, politically motivated crimes of which serious murder committed by political initiatives represent one of the most difficult forms, we felt that steps were needed to prevent individuals who committed, encouraged and ordered to commit such crimes from being punished for the occurrence of outdated prosecution. The fact is that most of these crimes, given the time when they were committed, went into obsolescence or the act of antiquity threatened them. That is precisely why it is fair for the perpetrators of such serious crimes to be deprived of the right to calculate with the deadlines of limitations and to avoid criminal responsibility by using the graces of that institute and I do not believe that there is anyone who would disagree with such a thesis. However, the public has raised the question whether it is necessary to amend the Constitution in order to ensure punishment for such offences. Since the overestimated part of these crimes has already represented antiquity and I'll remind you this is not just about the '80s but also about the '40s, the '50s, the '60s and the '70s. Not only is it necessary but it is also necessary for such a change to have a real effect on the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and to determine the retroactive application of the same provision and on those crimes of serious murder committed by political initiatives, i.e. in accordance with the position of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the position most of the representatives held at committee meetings and on all other serious murders for which, because of the failure of the state apparatus, i.e. its open-ended protection or for some other reason, it has become obsolete. As already stated in the proposed amendment, the Constitution does not propose the introduction of a new criminal offence, but rather the abolition of the statute of limitations for the existing criminal offence that has been sanctioned by all the criminal and criminal laws in force in our country. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution, as well as the relevant international instruments, does not defend retroactiveness as regards the limitation of the proposed amendment of the Constitution. The Institute of Obsolescence, although conceived as a guarantee of certain legal certainty to citizens, is not an institute that should be the basis for calculations for the perpetrators of serious crimes to remain unpunished over time and to defacto legalise the fruits of their crimes. The amendment to the Constitution proposed is the only way to avoid the perpetrators of the crimes of serious murder committed by political initiatives and, given the debates I have already mentioned, all other serious murders remain unpunished for the crimes they have committed at a time when there was no will for sanctioning such crimes among those who were to be carried out in such sanctioning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51721	Thank you, Your Honor. Does the Government of the Republic of Croatia want to state the opinion of the Government? Here you are, dear Minister of Justice Orsat Milenić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51722	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen. So according to this initiative, the government has drawn up and attached its opinion which is actually contained in the following. Of course, the initial and this reasoning that I'm setting out to move towards abolishing the statute of limitations for politically motivated murder by looking at the overall issue on the one hand on the principle of efficiency, on the other hand, on the principle of justice, the government feels that it should expand to all the difficult killings, so to end the statute of limitations for all the difficult killings. Why are we saying that? Because there is a whole series as you know during the time in the Republic of Croatia because of the different laws have changed and the penalties that have been, have changed and have become obsolete, and the fact is that today we are in a situation that we can have the perpetrators of a serious murder, for example. The murders of a child or a pregnant woman or more people who will come, confess, and we can't do anything to him. So we think it's an absurd situation that needs to be avoided. It is impossible and inadmissible for someone who has deprived someone of their lives to enjoy the grace of old today. You've seen different interpretations to which, due to the change in the Constitution in the '90s, when the death penalty was lifted, that limitation actually shortened to a very short term. So we're really in a situation, I'm here right now and I'm not talking about politically motivated murders that are a special category because the absurdity is bigger if someone committed a crime on behalf of a regime, of course that regime won't go after him and then it runs out of date and then he calls on grace to become obsolete and we can't do anything to him. But let's put it aside. Any murder, no matter what motivation it's made from, if it qualify as a hard murder, we can't be in a situation that today and because of the progress of the technique and because of the discovery we know who made it, we can sanction it but we can't because it's obsolete. So we think it's inadmissible, and that's why we think it should spread to all the serious murders. We also have one other thing, when we looked at you, you know that the Constitution was changed because of acts of conversion, so that it could also be processed when it came out of date. So this is not a change that would be unusual, it is not a change that is the first time, this change is already similar to that made in the Constitution and we have it before us, but we think that given the different possible views in practice that should be added to a special item that would explicitly emphasize that criminal persecution can be taken even when the statute of limitations has already taken place. Why, because the question arises when you enter a norm that there is no statute of limitations, is it something that only pro futuro is used or is it something that applies to those cases when it has already aged. So we will, this sentence we propose to regulate explicitly these cases when the statute of limitations occurred. We all know that it is out of date to extend the law when it is under way and it is not a problem and it has happened in Croatia and the practice is built in this sense. Now we even have an explicit legal provision, and it's not, and I know there's been a lot of talk about how this issue can be solved by law. It is dealt with by law pro futuro and it is not a problem, it is resolved by law and in cases where the statute of limitations did not occur because it continues, but in all cases, when the statute of limitations occurred, it is no longer possible to introduce criminal proceedings without a change of constitution. Only by changing the Constitution can we put that thing back and retroactively act. Also one question, the principle of legality, or whether we are now introducing new crimes. We're not intruding. We have suggested that, in fact, the special law does not prescribe new crimes, but only to list acts of history, so from the territory of the Republic of Croatia that defined a serious murder because it is through time, through various criminal acts and now the Penal Code has been defined differently. So to avoid any further doubt whether something covered up as a heavy murder was in some law otherwise indicated we believe that then through a special law we would list meanings through the history of definitions and the exact provisions to which this applies. So here's briefly, we find it inadmissible that anyone who has done it enjoys I would say graces of limitations because we didn't want to or could not as a state at some point process it or we didn't have evidence, and now we have them and we think we need to remove this item that I'm talking about and we think it's necessary to explicitly prescribe this one possibility of retroactive conduct of criminal proceedings in these cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51723	Thank you, Your Honor, Minister. We have reports of replicas. First replica and respected representative Vladimir Seks. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51724	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Minister, on behalf of the Group of Representatives, Mr. Peja Grbin explained a proposal to change the Constitution under which a staunch, a special form of crime of serious murder committed by political initiatives, should be done. In your proposal for the Government, you gave an opinion stating that you supported the proposal for a decision on the accession of the amendment to the Constitution with a draft table tabled by 46 representatives of the Croatian Parliament and you also proposed a supplement. You have suggested that in the Constitution, Articles 31 and 31 of the supplement be introduced, so that the crimes of serious murders prescribed by law do not become obsolete. Whether these two initiatives are now complementary because a group of MPs who demand that they do not go out of line with serious crimes, serious murders committed from low initiatives, whether this is coming in, whether you support it and whether you support what you are saying not to obsess over the crimes of serious murders prescribed by a special law. There's a difference.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51725	Thank you very much. Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51726	Thank you very much. So I absolutely support what I said because you asked if I support it, and as far as this is concerned, these are two complementary coordinated initiatives, because this one is contained in this broad that we have defined. So, a serious murder still today involves a serious murder from political initiatives. So this would spread to all the serious murders. We believe that both what I said and from the principle of economic efficiency, the efficiency of the process might sometimes be difficult to prove that difference is one. And on the other hand, on the principle of justice, we believe that someone who killed and killed it under special circumstances not only from political initiatives. It can also be of benefit, it can be in a particularly cruel way anything it cannot and must not have the grace of antiquity. Such a person, if we have evidence, should go to jail. And that's it. So these are two aligned. There's no deviation. This one's a little wider than how the first initiative was put in place. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51727	Thank you very much. Next replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51728	I must confess to the honourable minister that I didn't understand what you said now. I don't know if it's Mr. Shakespeare, but the same thing on that trail, I wanted to ask. How do you know a murder was politically motivated? That means the killer leaves a note and says I made it out of political murders. How can you do that before the court finds out it's from political initiatives? Therefore, explain because this is contradictory of what you said and what you said on behalf of Mr. Grbin, and how you will determine if there remains a formulation that does not obsess over the serious killings committed by political initiatives. How will you determine that something is from political initiatives other than a trial, and it can be found in the trial that something is from political initiatives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51729	Thank you, too. Replicate response, Honored Minister Orsat Milenic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51730	Thank you very much. So this would be actually a question maybe I wasn't clear. So, of course, they'll determine the court, we won't determine us. Definition is her and now. You, when you're looking at a serious murder, you have defined, say, from low-incentive initiatives. So, what are low initiatives? There's also no note that someone, I've made out of a low motion, but determines the court's case. So, in this case, when you give the definition that these are all serious murders, you have a legal definition that exists today. And today, the court finds that murder is difficult, so in this case, it will determine the same thing. So we don't change anything in definition. We have a situation as it is today, as defined in the Penal Code. And we're saying that what's being determined by the court today, today, is being tried by someone today for this serious murder on different grounds, and the court will determine if it's really a hard murder. But in those cases, when the court finds that it's a difficult murder, it won't be obsolete. So that's what this is about. What we're saying is that we need to define it backwards, that that means that that's it, I have examples here that I don't know about the murder in Article 35(2). This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The criminal code of the former country, etc. So that's something where you're pulling through definitions, but you're not introducing a new piece, because we can't introduce a new piece. So, we're just saying that these are works that we don't recognize this grace for, I mean the grace of old. Here it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51731	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51732	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister. Instead of moving away from World War II topics, the party opened this proposal with a world-wide and ideological and every other kind of war within the Croatian people and unfortunately you are not aware of it. At this point, this looks like apartheid policy to me that the minority is terrorizing the majority, what a colleague said in economic terms yesterday, this topic goes in this sense that the minority imposes on the majority. Unfortunately, you're not aware of that. Mr. Minister, you're from Dubrovnik. Why don't you open a trial for Daxa who was a war crime, it happened in your town. You tried and killed your partisans, your communists, the friar who wrote "Hello, Queen of the Croats." Just laugh! You took all the wounded from the Zagreb hospitals during the war operations, threw them into Jazavka. Why don't you open the trial. You have the right to judge. And a war crimes why don't you open a trial for Goli Island? They're crimes in the name of ideological struggle. The naked island is a crime on behalf of, politically motivated. Who bothers you to open the trial? Who's to blame for the death of the naked island. You here are practically throwing onions in the eyes of the Croatian people and what you are trying to do now is continue this policy so that no one is responsible for all possible crimes that have been committed in the past 50 years. And yesterday, there's a gentleman, and I'm not going to name him and his first-row name says that someone here was stealing in the last government. And he stole it or didn't steal it, but let's just say he stole it, but that's why he's in jail. And yours who killed, who filled the pits, who filled Daxa not without being in jail, but who got all the prizes at the head with criminal Josip Broz Tito, who needs to get his name off any square and any street in Croatia. He should be tried, too, but since he's no longer breathing, he needs to be tried for communist crimes and see if he's guilty of it, too, which he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51733	Thank you very much. Dear and respected colleague Dujomir Marasovic, it is not correct, it is not fair and it is not true, and it is not historic who is and who is in the name of whom he killed. Stay away from such formulations and such formulations. ... I'm asking you nicely to stay away from where who's who and how who's working. [[You can't hear it.]] Don't qualify for that. Although I'm asking nicely for it, I'm asking you nicely. ... Then let it go, please. [[Intruder Marasović, not understood.]] Come on, let it go. I'm asking you nicely, really. Do you? Yeah. The Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51734	You've all actually given an answer here. So, you mentioned Goli Island, that there were murders on the naked island because it prevents us from being prosecuted, not us, but the judiciary. ... Okay, you know what gets in the way? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Obsolete. Raise your hand for this proposal and it can be prosecuted. Don't get up and can't run. So here's a simple answer for you. As far as killing is concerned, nobody has killed mine, and I don't accept it. Yeah, let's say one of my grandfathers was in the partisans and I'm proud of it and I think it's a great thing. But this isn't the place. So here I explain the government's opinion, we believe that all murders, regardless of the political omen, have no political omen at all, but I can't understand that anyone can think that someone who killed three children, say '53, should not be punished. And if we don't lift the statute of limitations, such a person can't be punished. So, I don't know why we keep going to some kind of ideology that isn't here. We're talking about justice and morality here. So you did kill, what's supposed to happen to you? You should go to jail no matter whose name, for who, what. And if we have a statute of limitations, it can't happen. And so that's the story, that's how we do and why we, why the government supports this proposal and says it's going wide. So, not just for politically motivated murders, but for all the serious murders. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51735	Thank you, too. Are the representatives of the working bodies? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. In the debate we are going through the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is up to the club of independent representatives and respected representative Ivan Grubisic who shares time with the respected representative Kajin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51736	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The club of independent representatives in the Croatian Parliament will in principle support these changes so that serious murders as crimes do not become obsolete and that no one can be called to antiquity if such murders are committed by the court. I am pleased to be able to plead today on this issue because I am also the victim of certain ideological procedures for which certain people act if they are alive today but I am convinced that many have already changed the address responsible for what they have done. Namely, the Partisans, while I was still a child, brought out my father's house and killed him on Brstanov the next day, killed my brother, I guess ended up in a pit in Vukevica and five other close relatives. So I'm the victim of ideological procedures and murders that occurred during World War II. I said as far as I'm concerned, I forgive everyone as a priest and as a citizen, but if they're actually alive and they can prove they did it and the living are nothing against being prosecuted. And in that respect, we will support this law so that they become obsolete in the grave killings they don't have. However, as it is about changes to the Constitution and it is not good that the Constitution is often changed I would mention two more things. If the terms "In the name of the family" are met to hold a referendum, I am in favour of holding a referendum, to be prescribed and to act according to the wishes of the Croatian people. The referendum, which has been pointed out before, is a direct form of democracy where people decide both parliamentary representatives or county councilors or city councilors must listen to the people. There is no one above the people, nor this House above the people. Let the people decide. I am for the Institute of Referendum in all major issues raised by Croatian society today. So, I did have a referendum on "In the Name of the Family", but then so that if the consequences don't work out, we can all deal with them together and accept that the people have decided as they have decided. I would mention one more thing because it is about this change in the Constitution, which is that I have long advocated the regionalisation of Croatia, which is to coordinate Croatia as a region with the Croatian coat of arms. If the Croatian coat of arms is from five historical regions, then I want this House to bring and accept the changes where Croatia would settle on the coat of arms or open a wider debate, and what it will bring to accept. Five electoral, five regional communities would not reach the county, they could remain as administrative centres as well as so far only administrative centres but the regions would get more powers. The account should be decentralised and transferred to regions of many things which would not interfere with integrity and would not prejudice the integrity and integrity of the Republic of Croatia. So, I would like this opportunity to open the debate on this topic of regionalisation of Croatia and to support it because we are responsible to the voters and they expect us to do so. And this is the first part of this exposure, the second one will be completed by colleague Cain. But if we don't get along at all, then it's on that old tot-capital tot-sensus as much as the head and opinions. So we accept freedom so that everyone can be defined in their own way of thinking, but I have expressed some of the attitudes that I consider necessary and that they would be needed through this High House to discuss and take views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51737	I'd like a second part of the Honorable Representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51738	Mr. President, Minister, the Honorable Mr. Representatives. That's exactly how much the head thinks in this House. But to go in a way. What do I expect from this Constitution or rather the amendment of the Constitution? Not much, but one thing, among other things, is that, among other things, my predecessor's trail of not obsessing over serious murders, is not important from political or other low initiatives, and that it will not turn into a farce like non-deprecated crime. Yes, punish those who killed in World War II after World War II in Gol, the Yugoslav ambassadors who committed crimes in the 1990s. Why am I apostrophe? Because it kind of initiated these changes. It is clear by my court that the Constitution should now lay down a provision that advocates of the spoken word for this speaker will neither be prosecuted criminally nor materially. I don't think it's a requirement, I think it's a requirement, I think it's a civilizational, one parliamentary minimum, but that minimum doesn't live in Croatia. You will not be prosecuted for a spoken word, but it may happen to you as I did that for 4.5 years with a single state institution you are materially responsible for speaking for this speaker. And we should finally get that back to the Republic of Croatia. What is neither minimum nor maximum is in my opinion that Istria should be regionally recognised, meaning not subregionally but regionally. And why am I saying that? For some initiatives that only had the opportunity to listen to yesterday on the news that the country would be divided, and where Istria would not know what fate it could experience. However, Istria should have that fate that I apostrophe on the coat of arms of the Republic of Croatia, I explain once again the state minus 1 equal Istria as the region, and that should mean that some "Conditio sine qua non" means when we look at the coat of arms we see worse historical countries than the oldest Croatian coat of arms across Dubrovnik, Dalmatia, Istria and to Slavonia. Not without Istria, that's what I'm trying to say. It is clear that the costs of local self-government should be examined in parallel. Not that we have a situation like down at my place that out of 130, 140 million kunas of original income 52 million kuna goes for wages, 80 million kunas for wages it's clearly unsustainable, it doesn't make sense, it's throwing away, it's boasting, it's showing the power that we can do, it doesn't have measures. So decentralisation absolutely yes, but in one way that will clearly not compromise the foundations of this country and that will allow for the development of all. Speaking of these constitutional changes or rather this constitutional initiative, let's first see what it says because it somehow apostropheeded and launched them in the case of "Lex Pekovrić" State's Attorney's Office. I would also like to quote here "The State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia after the outbreak of the affair said that in '97, they rejected the criminal application of the Security Information Service and Nikola Štdula against Perkovic in connection with the murder of Stjepan Đurekovic, and that after the application for international legal aid that arrived from Germany in 2005 they had not found any reasons for a different decision from the one in 1997. Therefore, the trial of Krunoslav Pratis in Germany was suspended until Vinko Sindičić, who after being convicted before a public notary in Berlin, called off his statements." That's how much he means in the DORH that he hasn't found a cause for prosecution three times. To be clear, I don't protect the least Perkovic I've ever seen in my life. But some of them, also on the right, stood still in front of Perkovic, some with their right hand co-operated closely with Prekovic. If someone was the head of one service, and in the war, the main service was the military led by Perkovic, then these others had to work with them. Some from the right were also in the government until 2000, and by that logic, I felt I had to work with Perkovic, and the fact is also that Mr Perkovic could only be appointed to the post by the late President or Minister Gojko Sušak. I am also sure that in Tudjman, the time of Šushko, no HDZ would call Perkovic. HDZ was forced to vote on the constitutional law on co-operation with The Hague court in '96. A few of us here voted for that law. I know what the atmosphere in the assembly was like back then. In fact, we all voted for that constitutional law, except for Mr. Djapic. Based on this law was first I dare say sold Blaškiæ, and about others I will not spend words I can mention their names Gotovina, Markac, Cermak etc. Similarly, it is not necessary to perform this one in order to express myself to the ghoul around bilingual or one bishop would say two-written tables. Because it could easily happen to some that, as after the Split Riviera, they had to extradite the generals to be in a situation tomorrow that they would have to return the tables. But I also understand, all for power, as it is said, nothing contrary, actually all for power, I don't know, it doesn't matter. All of us should agree as we agreed on non-depreciation and converted crime that these most difficult forms of killings are not important from political or some low-level initiatives simply can't get old. It would be good even if the church did not serve the mass of suffrage for the most serious criminals that Croatia had inscribed in black, for Pavelic, for Shakic at the time of World War II. And to see, for example, the Roman archdiocese who told not to the mass of suffocation, or the strangulation of a Nazi criminal named Priebke. It is also true that the Institute of Obsolete has its logic. It is not disputed not to foresee a statute of limitations for future behaviour, it is disputed for those who have acted out of age but the Croatian public is to be tried, I am convinced of that for those who killed immigrants and those who killed after the war priests such as. Don Bulesic in Istria, in Lannister, there are no more living people who have stood out of it, and the people all know who was on which side. Equally those who killed ex-Yugoslavian ambassadors if they were alive or those who shot for example. In the Rabbit family, or I don't know who. It means what to say about this initiative, war crime, or that genocide don't go out of date. We're using this here is retroactivity, someone can say it's a serious precedent. But I repeat, if they're citizens, if this House is for, and I think we are, they shouldn't be out of date. Right, we need to raise these 101 votes, but I don't think anyone can be against it, the signatories won't be, the HDZ don't let God be against, I don't know, so I guess we'll break up with that communist one-witness once and for all, they'll say for all. Therefore, I believe that they will. That most will simply support these amendments to the Constitution. [[Thank you very much. Bring the end.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51739	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Vice-President Zeljko Reiner at the presentation of a respected representative, Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51740	Dear Mr. President, well-respected colleague Grubisic you said as well as your associate that you support these amendments to the Constitution. I have to ask now a question that bothers me before but I didn't get an answer, maybe you can give me an answer that changes we're actually discussing right now. In fact, whether we are discussing what a group of MPs have proposed because it is one proposal or we are discussing an opinion, I stress no proposal, the government's opinion on the proposal of a group of MPs. What we're actually discussing today. I don't have any illusions, I see it's headed in the direction that we're going to discuss everything and everything, I guess we're going to discuss everything according to the usual demagogue habit. But let's go to the measure of things. What are we discussing today? Are we discussing a proposal for a representative or something on the tenth? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51741	Reply to the replica, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51742	We certainly support the government's position as Mr. Minister has implicated. And as for the SDP Club's opinion, I leave them at large to express their views, but we support the government's position and the statement of Mr. Minister. I'm sorry that this is going to develop into one controversy about everything and everything but I would like to appeal that we try to focus on the topic that major crimes or murders don't go out of date and that this proposal would be a bill and a change of constitution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51743	Thank you very much. A new replica of your presentation, honourable representative, respected representative Frana Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51744	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic, you were really talking about one tragic, tragic event that struck your family, where many members died, where they were executed by obviously communist criminals. But that's according to what you said happened during the war. It's a war crime, that crime doesn't get old. So what is being brought today, or what is proposed to make changes to the Constitution, does not apply to these crimes. According to international law, that crime doesn't go out of date. It's the same if it doesn't obsess over a crime that took place on Daxie in '44. So years during the war. However, there is obviously no good will of those institutions that should be processed for 10 years I am asking in the Croatian Parliament the question of Dax. Or there's a conspiracy to silence communist criminals and those communists who supported them. And we see this conspiracy of silence today in Eastern Slavonia as regards victims who have made great Serb aggressors where they are silent about tombs and for which apparently Croatian citizens of Serbian nationality know but do not want to tell them. We see from the case of Sotina after a private investigation, it has been found that certain citizens who lived in that place have now gone to Serbia to know where these tombs are located. So there's a conspiracy to silence communists, communist crimes. And for Dax, there are documents, there's a '44 document for Dax. The year was written by a senior communist official who for those people who were intellectuals, priests among them and Padre Perica who wrote a song that was proud of the Croats and Catholics "The Paradise Virgin of the Queen of Croatia", including him, and he was executed, and that was the letter that was actually a warrant for the execution of the murder, whether or not it was to kill them, and it was a historical document in the state archive, and it was signed by Ante Jurjevic Baja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51745	Replica response, respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51746	Everything that's justified should be processed, alone and if those who killed my father, my brother are alive, and so, if they are alive, I am to be processed but personally as a man and a priest I forgive but by law they should answer. Therefore, there is no cover-up, no cover-up, no one responsible and alive should be subject to trial. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51747	Thank you, too. Now it's the turn of the replica to present the respected representative of Damir Cain. The first is the respected Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51748	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague Cain, this is the first step in changing the Constitution and here it is visible what will happen during the conversation who is asking, so you said the other day, it seems to me ten days ago that the hand of those who will rise against Istria being a region has dried up. It also falls under some law as a threat of drying your hand. However, I'll just stick to what you've been saying about non-deprecated crime. I don't think we should, we're only talking about one type of crime all the time, and that's that communist crime after the war after '45. However, there are crimes, of course, that should have already been condemned, it should have been resolved, processed by these people, and processed after I guess changes to the Constitution because there is only one dead letter on paper but it is also necessary to prosecute crimes that are not out of date but could fall into old age according to what, the practice of the Croatian judiciary to push into a drawer the most difficult objects, and these are crimes such as the murder of Rajher Kir, the murder of Mr. Paradjik. There's a series of politically motivated murders that we haven't solved and that we're pushing under the carpet and the devil sees no one mentioning because they happened in the '90s and they've already mentioned some names. Unfortunately, I'm reopening my suspicion that we're going to bring in as we brought in, remember that converted crime doesn't go out of date and what happened. We only have one criminal suspect, only one big one, and there were hundreds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51749	Thank you very much. Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51750	I agree with you, Mr. Representative, that this is the first step in amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It's a good thing that this one under the quotes is not cursing, but as I would say, it wasn't any threat that we understand each other, but I'm willing to bear all the consequences if there's a basis for that, that the hand dried up whoever voted to abolish the County of Istria. For let's look at only the coat of arms, I said and just before showed, the historical Croatian coat of arms of the city of Dubrovnik, Dalmatia, Istria and Slavonia. And I want to believe that the next day, the regionalisation of Croatia, decentralisation, will take place in this way simply and simply. Well, I've said before, not just to judge communist crimes at the time of the war, because what happened in the Don Grubisic family is a war crime. My wife's also three of them, so three brothers from her father and one daughter ended up in the foybe, and that's a war crime. God forbid we know at least where that pit is, where that grave is so we can bury those people. But I was saying that we should process those who fired at the Yugoslav ambassadors, as well as those who killed immigrants across Europe. And clearly, I was also talking about the need to process some other politically motivated murders, and I mentioned the Zec family case, the Krioc unionist case, and I agree with Mr Kira similarly and expressed the faith that this amendment to the Constitution will not turn into a farce that we've been exposed to after the installation of a provision on non-deprecated crime where we have a case that only one individual simply fits for something, for perhaps even some imaginary accusations that someone saw something that someone had given to someone in a parking lot. I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51751	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51752	For a thousand reasons to judge, but...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51753	Thank you, Your Honor. A new replica and respected representative of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51754	Comrade Cain, you opened the topic of regionalisation of Croatia in your debate and of course you said that for regionalisation but provided Istria is a region, no subregion but a region, and now a new argument is your Croatian coat of arms. I also tell you and everyone who draws tickets, whether on napkins or paper in future regions, that Međimurje also accepts any regionalisation of Croatia provided that Međimurje is a region. Our Međimurje coat of arms is not in the Croatian coat of arms, because it was only 9 May 1919 at the National Assembly in the town of Čakovec that we made a decision on the secession from then on in Hungary, the collapse of Austro-Hungarian and the accession of the then state. And please and I warn you, personally and all, I will not curse you if you will vote differently, it is not my style, but don't listen to other parts of Croatia verbally on account and on the burden of other parts of Croatia verbally regionalize Croatia, play with such serious things without listening to other arguments before that. Let's not open the subject that way again because I'm telling you seriously. Međimurje historically places the same right on a special status with the same arguments that you speak of Istria. So please talk about Istria and let us Međimurje and let us talk about our arguments and aspects and stop drawing maps of Croatian regions for some other purely electoral reasons when choosing Parliament and nothing else. That's all the reasons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51755	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51756	I don't know, I haven't drawn a single card in my life. But the truth is, Mr. Representative, I smoke cold because someone wants to play with the County of Istria. I agree with you that Međimurje is a historic Croatian region. After 1919 you mentioned this year as god and Istra a historic Croatian country that was only in '43. that is, after the release of '45. Or by international contracts in '47. ................................................................................... become a territorial part or Corps of the Croatian or Slovenian people. I smoke cold, I don't have to smoke evil, I'm too preventing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51757	Thank you very much. Third replica and respected representative Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51758	Thank you, Mr. President. In his debate, counterpart Cain said HDZ was forced to vote in favour of the Constitutional Law on Co-operation with The Hague Court. You should say, in fact, when a colleague of Cain's makes these findings, then you should say a lot more. Croatia or President Tudjman asked two after Vukovar for the establishment of the International Court of Crimes committed in aggression and in Vukovar. '93. The Croatian government has requested the formation of the Hague court. And these discussions that were in '96. The years proved justified because of the political dimension of the Hague court, because Croatian generals were innocent for 8 years in The Hague to be released. As far as this law is concerned now and punishing the crimes of serious murder committed by political initiatives, that is not the problem. The problem is what is being released as a problem and in what if someone carefully reads what you said was not punished for profit, so here in the Constitution, this provision applies to actions in the process of conversion and privatisation done at the time of the Homeland War. The bill of conversion was passed in '88. years if I'm not mistaken. Therefore, even under this constitutional provision, all that would not before have been covered and is not a practice to be tried. So, with one of these. Let me finish my sentence. [[The Intruder President: Thank you very much.]] With one of these formulas, the problem is what's being released, not what's being put in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51759	Replication response, distinguished representative Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51760	Yes, in 1996, several of us who are here in this House voted for the constitutional law in question. Mr Furio, Mrs. Kosor, Shakespeare, Caine, I think Mrs. Zgrebec. I know what the atmosphere was like back then, and I know that at the very least it's a pain in the ass, and I know that it was just necessary. Just as it's also good that the Staff has accepted today's conversation with the prime minister or tomorrow about this Cyrillic in Vukovar. And it's not good for individuals to just abuse it. You mention peaceful reintegration yourself. For example, this peaceful reintegration did not deal with this Cyrillic. She was into what? The return of the Croatian refugee population to those areas has dealt with this peaceful reintegration of the need to punish war crimes or others have dealt with amnesty, we have then dealt with parity representation and representatives of Serbs, Croats in these executive or representative bodies. No one at the time dealt with a Cyrillic note and a Croatian letter as well as a Serbian letter writing the documents even in one St. Peter in Istria somewhere in the 12th century. And among other things, I invite people not to simply do this farce about something that is necessarily and only possible and correct.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51761	We will continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. The Croatian Labourists and their club and respected representative Dragutin Lesar are next.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51762	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. President, Mr. Secretary. Today, a debate on another initiative for constitutional change has been opened in the House. I swear by my honor that I will act consciously and responsibly in my work and that I will stick to the Constitution and the law and respect the legal order, and that I will stand up for all the progress of the Republic of Croatia. It's a text of an oath that we've all attached. Where is the first constitutional change initiative submitted by around 600,000 citizens of this country? When will the authorities of the Croatian Parliament put the Croatian Parliament on the agenda and this initiative? The formal procedure began at the time when the Constitutional Committee decided to verify the validity of the signature. And that initiative stands somewhere. Why? Why was it put in the closet or in order? We don't have to agree with the content of their initiative or questions. But we must defend their constitutional right to a referendum decision. It is our job to facilitate the process of direct democracy for citizens, not to make it difficult for them. And if there is anything that is unclear, which is not regulated or prescribed, we as the Parliament of this state towards them and that initiative must be put in place so we always go in favour of them, not to their harm. Both these first and second initiatives are constitutional and legal. And that's why I'm making the first proposal on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club. Let us continue the process of discussing constitutional changes in both initiatives parallelly. The chairman of the Constitution Committee is on the move to call for a committee meeting and propose a decision. Either the referendum requested by the citizens will be called and proposed by the Parliament or referred to the Constitutional Court if they consider that there is a disputed or that the initiators of the other initiatives themselves will propose the same text and install it into constitutional changes or in the course of a joint debate such a solution will take place. The fourth solution I don't know, but I insist on acting so that we keep in mind that there are two initiatives for constitutional change. Why are there misunderstandings? Why do we interpret each other's initiatives differently? Because in Croatia and in the Constitution itself, and in particular in the Law on Referendum and in the Law on the Constitutional Court, we have a very bad solution. I repeat, very badly solved. The commitment of this House was from 22.10.2010 when the Constitutional Law on the implementation of constitutional changes was adopted to adopt the new Law on Referendum. And it's been not once, not twice, not three times six months and we don't have a new referendum law. It just proves we're not ready to obey our own laws. It just shows the necessity and these doubts and the problems with which you... Some with a citizens' initiative to change the Constitution is more of an argument to finally open the debate on the referendum law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The initiators of these constitutional changes that are now on the agenda have offered two documents. The first is a decision on the accession of constitutional changes followed by a proposal for draft possible constitutional changes. The document uses the term "hard murder" committed by political initiatives. On the Committee on the Constitution, we discussed and read the opinion of the Government, which amended this formulation and expanded the content of constitutional changes. This means that the draft constitutional changes should be amended if the applicants accept the government's opinion. And on the Committee on the Constitution when it was voted, it seems to me that many remained unclear which document was sent further into the procedure. Qualification of the crime is given at the time of the indictment at the end... How many times has there been a change in the qualification of a crime? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] If the heavy killings using the argument that we're sending a message, although I don't see the Constitution as a document, the act of sending political messages, but if we accept that argument as the fact that we're sending a message of righteousness, and that's exactly what Mr. Minister used today, then why don't we send a message of justice so that no taking life gets old? No taking of life in Croatia can become obsolete. Either way, from any initiative or ever. Then it's a message of righteousness. Taking someone else's life won't get old. And it is likely that such a formulation would lead to a series of doubts as to what kind of message we want to send, and that is the second proposal by Croatian Labourists to consider such a formulation. But if we're talking about sending messages through the Constitution I'm always wondering if we're sending a message that, for example, crimes of abuse, sexual abuse and any other form of serious child abuse is less social evil and it's going to go out of date and this isn't? The fourth proposal to the promoters on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club is taught to all experiences with the first constitutional initiative, although at the session of the Constitutional Committee, by voting most votes, these proposals have been rejected I will be so free and I will repeat today and perhaps someone here understands, understands what I'm talking about. In the further phase of constitutional changes, we should open the debate in Article 87. The Constitution which regulates the referendum decision, to open a parallel debate on the new Law on Referendum and Amendments to the Constitutional Court Act in that part which lays down the powers of the Constitutional Court to judge the constitutionality of the referendum initiative. The fifth proposal, let these constitutional changes take effect on the same day as the Law on the European Arrest Warrant, and then all the doubts that are motives, which are the reasons, initiatives, and what is going on right now with constitutional changes, and all of this is a very short period of time. And I believe that from that moment on, the needs of a reasonable, justified need to accuse each other of anything from any initiative. That was our fifth proposal. Although I am already tired of warning that our constitutional obligation is to protect the right of citizens and to direct democracy, and we did not think to reopen these topics because a few months ago you rejected us, I repeat that this is an ideal opportunity to seriously consider the legislative solution to the referendum, to fix in the Constitution what we need to fix, to adopt the Law on Referendum, to amend the Constitutional Law in that section and to round that story normically in a way that citizens, but also to know when and in what way the topics under which the conditions are entitled to refer to a referendum decision. And in the very end, it has been said quite often in public that all those who will not support this constitutional amendment are actually doing a new criminal act because we are protecting or protecting murderers. I refer to the promoters with the following sentence, if you remain on your proposal to amend the Constitution system, take or leave it and do not agree to discuss any other parts of the Constitution, then you have the possibility, if you consider us an obstacle to such constitutional changes and the introduction of no obsolete killings taking life in the second phase, establish a proposal to amend the Constitution, call a referendum, and then the Constitution will change the citizens of this country and none of the MPs can be an obstacle to the implementation of your draft amendments to the Constitution. Under the current provision of paragraph 1 of Article 87, there is an opportunity to bypass all those you consider to be in your way to send a message of righteousness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51763	Thank you, too. We're going to the replicas for your exposure. The first replica and respected representative Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51764	Every new debate opens up some new questions. I think that Mr. Lesar has raised some more questions when it comes to taking the lives of a person's individual life, although I am aware of different opinions and that's the question of abortion. I'd like to hear what Mr. Lesar thinks about taking that life?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51765	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51766	A fellow Don Ivana taking a life for me by my understanding and understanding is taking a life of living beings, a man who was born. You have one look, I have another, we have the right to do so and I will stay with my attitude because I am such a commitment and a worldview.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51767	New replica and respected representative Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51768	Thank you. Dear Mr. Lesar and Your Honor, you gave yourself at one point in your presentation for the right to point out how you insist on discussing your proposal in these proposed constitutional changes. And just before that, you said in the replica of Agent Cain that some are now proposing with these constitutional changes and some other changes concerning regional divisions. I agree with you that the questions of the referendum are something that is worth taking into account, but I do not agree with that, and I cannot accept that underestimating the importance and amendment of the Constitution that would regulate the new regional reconstruction of the Republic of Croatia, the more the regional policy and the EU are the cornerstone of all policies, the more necessary it is in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in this current area to regulate it through 6 articles of the current Constitution from 133. to 138, the more it is precisely because of the obvious unbalanced regional development that it is necessary to approach the new regional reconstruction, because this is not just a political issue in terms of administrative changes to the division of the Republic of Croatia, but above all became a primary and economic issue. If such changes do not occur then we will still have what we have unequal regional development in the Republic of Croatia. constitutional changes are not made every year, and when they are brought to this occasion, this topic is very well worth it. We've had so far Here's four interventions, and then it deserves this. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51769	Thank you. The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51770	My dear colleague, you have misquoted me twice, I have not used my word to insist but to suggest that a debate be opened on the part of the referendum. And I really don't insist on anything. And we don't care whether this debate comes or not. We have the possibility of proposing, nice, kind, politely suggesting and not insisting on anything at all. And the question is to draw maps of regionalization, and I went into controversy with my colleague Caine, your proposal was neither seen nor heard nor understood, so I couldn't really comment on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51771	A respected representative, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, and her replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51772	You ask your colleague Lesar a question, and why not end the statute of limitations in other very difficult and detestable works. So you cite the example of rape. It is important to know that there is a whole series in criminal law, i.e. there is a catalogue of criminal acts that are placed in the heads. One of the most severe, there are very serious crimes with very high sentences but the most serious crime is and the greatest human value is his life. So the most serious crime is to take someone's life. And especially when it seems from the lowest initiatives. There are monster killers. And especially difficult are those acts when someone kills on behalf of a state, on behalf of a political group. Because the state is in charge of protecting people's lives first and foremost. Therefore, here is the teaching right and on our own criminal legislation only required that such the most monstrous crimes the most severe crimes cannot be covered by a wave of limitations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51773	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51774	Comrade Ingrid, I'll try to explain my concerns again. So I asked myself and all of us publicly. We're sending a message of righteousness in line. Whether it's personal for me or for you, I don't know, but the fact that we have and testify to investigations, facts that are revealed 40 years ago, that one individual sexually abused and exploited 50 children 40 years ago. So, we're gonna let this go out of date. I still have that doubt, I don't even have an answer, I just doubt what kind of message we're sending. In that context, I mentioned this example.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51775	New replica and respected representative Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51776	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Comrade Lesar, you mentioned in your proposals and civil initiative and 600,000 signatures, now I may not have heard well and realized whether it was this initiative on behalf of the family that collected 749 thousand signatures plus something worse. Or someone else. But if that were the case, given that the amendments to the Constitution and they are, these citizens' signatures require in principle that marriage is defined as a constitutional category, then perhaps that proposal in that part of the third proposal would be very good because it would basically burn a lot of money to the state budget for the implementation of the referendum and would end the suffering of citizens fighting for civil rights in that way. Well, in that part, it's absolutely acceptable. And what I must say is that it is absolutely in my opinion that your proposal to discuss and other topics in the amendments to the Constitution rather than that the Constitution is really little going to change.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51777	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative of Dragutin Lesar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51778	My colleague Hrg used the term about 600 thousand because, if I remember correctly, Minister Bauk informed the Croatian public that there were legal signatures somewhere between 570 and 650 thousand valid. And only for this citizens' initiative do I know that it exists in Croatia, for someone else I don't know. So that's what I was talking about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51779	And the next replica of respected representative Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51780	Dear counterpart Lesar, this debate on the amendment of the Constitution and the initiative to change the Constitution shows how much political parties are essentially hypocritical when in power they act quite the opposite of how they behave when they are in opposition. The HDZ strongly advocates now what is its right and I think it is now right, but it was wrong when the Labourist initiative just refused to change and legislation on the referendum and the Constitution because if they had listened to the Labourers' proposals today, it would not be controversial. It wouldn't be a disputed procedure for the referendum. It wouldn't be questionable when the question is asked. And no one could today, and so could this corn coalition, which is in power to stall and simply defy all those people who have signed for the civil initiative on behalf of the family. I do not agree with their initiative but I will fight to exercise my right and have the right to question how most citizens in the Republic of Croatia think. So I appeal that, I agree with those speakers who said we should put everything on the table and discuss all the proposals because the government just said when we gave the motion to change the Constitution because of the referendum that it wasn't the shirt constitution and that it changed every day. We are now changing the Constitution and I do not think it is bad that different political options are proposed and it is not a sin to propose and to have a broad debate about it and that all participants, especially parliamentary parties, are discussing it and, of course, that 101 votes will be important, but with that, I am opposed to trading.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51781	Thank you very much. There's no response to the replica. We're going to continue the debate by the representatives' clubs. It is next to the HNS Club in the Croatian Parliament and the esteemed representative Goran Beus-Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51782	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. At the proposal of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system today, we are considering the initiative to initiate the process of amending and supplementing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. It is known to the public that the HNS-Liberal Democrats this summer when this initialally presented to the Croatian public expressed their discontent and in principle explained by the fact that generally taking the constitutional text should be touched rarely and little, so as not to actually contribute to the stability of the constitutional order. But this is the principle of falling away in exceptional situations, such as the one we last had, which is the need to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in order to adapt to the obligations of the Republic of Croatia as a new member of the European Union. So three years ago when we were changing the Constitution it was a direct cause, but I'll remind you that in these changes and additions, a series of issues that were then decided by the majority, I would say by consensus assessed as very important as potential and ultimately as real constitutional matter. We found the initial initiative unacceptable because it included only one type of serious crime, which was formulated as a serious murder from political initiatives, which unfortunately was not defined and described in the Penal Code in an adequate way and there is the possibility that by including such a formulation, an insecure space would be created in interpreting what it is, and which is not a political motive because it is rather difficult for him to define in many situations the court's decision, and not just by general judgment, and the court is the only one who can make qualifications of such a type. But when the government has expressed its opinion that it would be good to discuss abolishing the statutes of limitations, it is now a new quality of the proposal that I am familiar with 46 representatives of the Croatian Parliament who have launched the initiative. I would like to remind you, in 2011, by passing a new Penal Code when we practically implemented a number of very important changes in criminal law, among other things, and raised the line of limitation for a whole series of criminal offences. We have made a very sharp approach and unlike the 1990s, as mentioned by the minister, when this matter was completely and extremely unacceptablely liberalised, in 2011 we are in Article 81. The criminal law in Chapter VII which speaks of the limitation of criminal prosecution and the statutes of limitations defined that the prosecution of antiquity is 40 years old for crimes for which a sentence of long-term imprisonment and sentence of more than 15 years, 25 years for crimes for which a prison sentence of more than 10 years can be sentenced, 20 years for crimes for which a prison sentence of more than 5 years can be sentenced, 15 years for crimes for which a prison sentence of more than 3 years can be sentenced, 10 years for crimes for which a prison sentence of more than 1 year and 6 years for other crimes can be sentenced. On average, we've tightened the statutes of limitations in outdated criminal persecution by about 40%. It is important to say, it is an important step and we then approached this matter in 2011 quite responsibly. In this way, I would also like to say to those colleagues who are trying to compare the crimes in fact that a part of the important work was already done in 2011. However, it should also be said that our criminal law defines explicity as a serious murder, which is a crime of serious murder. This is defined in Article 111, and it is said that all serious murders will be punished by a prison of at least 10 years or by a long-term prison, and then it is said that: whoever kills another in a cruel or insidious way, who kills a person particularly vulnerable to her age, severe physical or mental disorder or pregnancy, who kills a family member he previously abused, who kills another person out of kindness, ruthless revenge, hatred, or other low-level initiatives, who kills others for committing or concealing another crime, who kills an official in connection with her performing an official duty. When we add this body of crimes of serious murder to those serious crimes that are already defined as acts for which there is no statute of limitations, it's genocide, war crime and the rest, we're actually going to get one over the whole of which all the heavy killings actually come out of the system of limitations. And whoever committed the crime of a serious murder, regardless of whether it was war or peace, this proposal comes out of the realm conditionally speaking to the grace of antiquity. Therefore, this approach is acceptable to the Croatian People's Party-Liberal Democrats, and we agree to the process of amending the Constitution in the Croatian Parliament. But we also warn that every process of amending the Constitution is also an opportunity in which different topics are opened, sometimes those that have not been resolved in the last amendments and additions to the Constitution. I will remind you that three years ago, in the debate on amendments and additions to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, we left one part, one Corps of Questions beyond the reach of constitutional changes, and that there is the possibility that due to the changed social circumstances, different approaches to the problem can be made. Let's get those questions back to the debate. Some of them have already been mentioned here. I'll only mention one. This is the body of questions related to the referendum, where practice also teaches us that this issue is not resolved properly, i.e. that some elements have not been resolved in accordance with the positive practice of democratic societies. But there are other questions that will surely be found. And we are actually discussing today whether we will enable all who are constitutionally defined as authorised proposings, that in this debate we will open in this moment if we decide to contribute to our proposals and try to convince the majority that the proposal they make is relevant to this measure in order for most of them to support it. In that sense, we are opening proceedings today, and we must be aware of this when we talk about the content of certain initiatives. I hope that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system that ipso effectively coordinates the whole procedure in this regard will show the highest possible level of responsibility and willingness to listen, consider all proposals and bring an adequate assessment which of them is in line with what we are talking about today, which is the abolition of the statute of limitations for all the crimes of serious murder deserves to come to the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament and be discussed as a metric, as the content of future amendments to the constitutional text. That is why the CNS supports this process and in that sense we will give our vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51783	Thank you very much. We're on our way to replication. Davor Bozinović, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51784	Thank you very much. Mr. Richembergh, there are parts I can agree with. But I'd go back to the beginning of your presentation when you spoke about your party's position at the beginning of talks on changing the constitution. In fact, I would return to your personal position, where you said that the Constitution does not change without an angry need and without a thorough analysis of the justification and effects of that change. What I'm interested in right now is what happened in the meantime, the angry need, and what analyses you've come up with, or changed your mind. I'll remind you in your coalition program whether or not it was written that this program was created by experts, and it was complemented by citizens. In the meantime, in this case, you have the fact that the professional public did not support it, but it went on and on and on and on and on and on and on about this way of changing the Constitution. I'm talking first of all about those constitutional experts who are members of the Constitution Committee. On the other hand, you have a civil initiative, 750,000 signatures that require a referendum question on the constitutional definition of marriage. So, in the meantime, and about your program and about your statements, you have the fact that the profession has rejected and that the citizens want something else. My question is how the 750,000 citizens feel in a situation where it is possible to expect other solutions to be again not just outdated, to be put first. as regionalization... [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51785	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51786	Dear fellow Minister Bozinovic, I speak here today on behalf of the Croatian People's Party's Party's Club of Representatives – Liberal Democrats, and I express the agreed opinion of all HNS representatives. I can tell you that, as far as I'm concerned, there are still some issues that I would very much like to see on the agenda discussions on amendments to the Constitution, such as the guarantee that everyone who has been kidnapped will be returned to the property. However, I am sorry that when we discussed amendments to the Constitution three years ago, your party had just put its foot in the door and did not allow this issue to be resolved by the amendments to the Constitution, and beware that this is a question that affects even more directly and personally more citizens than those who have signed an initiative that you mention. As far as analysis and angry needs are concerned, I will remind you that on July 1st of this year, what is executive in the European Arrest Warrant Act came into effect. The practice of July 1st to this day has shown that the issue of old age is a major social problem when it comes to the works of the most difficult, therefore the most difficult criminal acts. And that's one form of analysis, but it's going to be the Parliament that's going to look and get and conduct analysis during this debate that we're just about to open. In theory, colleagues of Bozinovic, if we decide to initiate the process of amending the Constitution, it still does not mean that it will occur, nor do we know at this time what the content of the possible changes is. We will discuss this when what the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system defines after a thorough debate as a proposal that we should discuss here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51787	Thank you. Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51788	Thank you. In your debate, Mr Beus, you have tried to minimise politicizing and actually try to focus on this professional aspect of these things as much as possible, so it would be really worth it if you tried and made a little reference to the fact that all relevant constitutional and legal experts in the Republic of Croatia see no meaning or support these constitutional changes that you, as a political decision, push, or your coalition. Also, defending the proposal, or changing the fact that instead of politically motivated killings, it would be good to see some projections that no group, to which these cases could at all be related since the establishment of the Croatian State, or including the category of serious political murders and World War II. So, what are these cases? How many such cases, what cases would this be, and why in the first place, what is the legal purpose of bringing these changes in the first place? It would also be interesting to see which European countries from the European or Western civilization circles have such provisions in their constitutions. It should pull the parallel with those amendments to the Constitution when the Constitution on the non-depreciation of crime from conversion was changed, where it was also a matter of a political decision that was actually seen from the practice that had no effect and I actually think that this decision is also a question of whether any constitutional changes will result in any political effect.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51789	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51790	My colleague Djurovic, regardless of what I would like the debate to return to the frameworks which will be as close as possible and stick to actually professional, reasoned elements in the debate, I am absolutely aware that the Constitution is the highest political and legal act that he causes such discussions. We can't open a debate about the Constitution so we don't allow a debate on political issues. It's just love. Because the Constitution is the highest possible act of a democratic society which, therefore, society, declares its values and determines standards of conduct. And out of it comes the whole system both legal and political and economic and everything else. So that's the roof. And whenever you open the roof you see everything in that house. Secondly, as far as this question is concerned, is there any other country that accesss this way, of course it does. I can't tell you what all these countries are, I can tell you one thing, and it's the Federal Republic of Germany which is relevant not only because of some illusions, not just because of our historical and all other relationships, but because of the fact that our legal system and our legal tradition are based on Central European legal tradition and that we have actually inherited a lot from the same source from which modern German heritage is its legal not only legislation but also practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51791	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51792	Thank you very much. A colleague, Beus Richembergh, and from your debate, and also from the Minister's debate, I don't really know where or when the graces of old are reaching retroactively. Since Turkish times, the Austrian, old Yugoslavia, World War II, which falls back into war crimes, not this. And secondly, it is said that the outdated is thus abolished the graces of antiquity for crimes committed on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. What about the crimes committed elsewhere over Croatian citizens, so outside the Republic of Croatia? It's not worth saying, the minister is moving his head in a sign of negativity. Well, that's pretty clear, isn't it? The principle of justice that you've been talking about in the judiciary here, and here, they're dealing with the concept of serious murder. I don't know how to explain directly to myself the difference between a hard murder and an easy murder. If every murder is a murder, and every murder is a murder, then it results in the loss of life of some other person. So I don't understand this definition, and here we've debated for days and months before this debate on ideologically motivated murders either by individuals, groups of individuals or so on. "State" to say the terror that was spent on the very ones I told you about outside the Republic of Croatia. So, over individuals killed outside the Republic of Croatia, e.g. in Germany 32, France, Norway, Canada, America, etc. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51793	Replication response, Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51794	My colleague Grubisic agrees that there is a possibility that a circus debate is under way about this. Yes, it is true, and you can personally file criminal charges against an unknown perpetrator who, in 1089 in Kosovo, killed by cold weapons by 5 Churches by the Croatian sovereign King Dmitry Zvonimir. But I'm afraid the court will refuse you such a criminal plea for not being under the first living witness, and under the second, we inherit the whole story from Pope Dukljanin's yearbook, which was created several hundred years later, so it's a secondary source extremely unworthy. We can do that. And we're actually talking about the crimes committed by living people, everything else is pointless because justice can only reach a living man if he's guilty. In that sense, this tale of obsolescence applies only to living people. Unfortunately, we cannot judge or welcome justice by judging murderers who are no longer present because in many situations there are no more victims, but the fact is that by opening court proceedings in all cases of serious murders that may occur in a judicial procedure and even in cases where the perpetrators of people who are no more can and must light up all these tragedies and in the history of Croatia and the Croatian people leave as little as possible a stain, less possible gray zones of those unfinished stories that are the basis for manipulation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51795	Jadranka Kosor replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51796	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague, Beus Richembergh, rightly notes that today's act and today's debate is the launch of a procedure for amending the Constitution, and whether it will eventually come to this and we will see it. Therefore, the initiation of the procedure does not mean an automatic amendment to the Constitution. I think it's good to pull the parallel now with those amendments, or with the process of amending the Constitution in 2010, as you said there were then different proposals that did not enter into amendments to the Constitution, that's true, but the opportunities were different. At that time, we had to amend the Constitution primarily in order not to stop negotiations to join the EU, we had to amend constitutional provisions, among others, on the possibility of handing over Croatian citizens, so to install a European arrest warrant, the independence of the CNB, the State Audit, etc., etc. So some elements that didn't exist until then in the Constitution we had to install. Of course, in the talks on amendments to the Constitution, political parties also highlighted other proposals, and so we came to the fact that we are almost stuck and that the amendments to the Constitution and failed because the opposition then demanded, for example, that the full abolition of the right to vote be given to Croatian citizens living outside the Republic of Croatia, and that we then came to a compromise in negotiations, as we proposed to the common forces the non-exhaustion of war profit-making or converted crime. So it is good that everything I agree with you here, everything that today's representatives or clubs bring to the table as proposals for possible amendments to the Constitution that no one rejects it, especially the promoters, but that we talk about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51797	The answer to the replica Goran Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51798	Comrade Kosor, you're absolutely right. I was a member of the constitutional committee and a member of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, and I testified, but I must say that this debate was never hysterical or politicised to the extent that impossible conditions were put in place, that the clips were placed in that debate that would make everything impossible. Yes, there was tension because one side thought it was more important A than what was B. And the fact is that many questions were not then defined by the Constitution. But it is also a fact that these constitutional changes have not only regulated these open issues that have stood before us as a danger that we will not do what we need to do before we join the EU. There were questions of a completely different nature about how the Croatian Army is commanded in cases of engagement of Croatian Armed Forces outside the territory of the Republic of Croatia, we found a Solomonian solution, and this has nothing to do with our entry into the EU. So there was mutual goodwill, and I hope there will be even now and there is common sense. If it is estimated on both sides of the assembly that this question is not the only one that needs to be resolved, let's talk to the others. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51799	On behalf of my colleague, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51800	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. Well, first of all, since my colleague Beus has already said a lot here, we need to clarify one fact today. What are we discussing? We are discussing a decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution. Today we do not define what this change of constitution will look like, we are only discussing today whether or not we will approach the change of the Constitution. This amendment to the Constitution, if we make such a decision afterwards, is carried out in the context of what was in the SDP's proposal both in the government's opinion, but also in the context of all that will be said today in the debate before this House. We, when preparing a draft amendment to the Constitution, must take into account how these proposals I mentioned but also what my colleague Lesar said, what his colleague Beus was saying, what his colleague Grubisic was saying or what his colleague Pupovac was likely to say soon, all of this is the basis for drawing up a draft amendment to the Constitution. And only when this debate is over and only when we have prepared this draft amendment of the Constitution will we be able to say this didn't go in, and it either had to go in, and it had to be skipped, and that's crucial. And if the esteemed HDZ colleagues have any objections, say them, say them. You're saying there's no dialogue, but make suggestions, let's see what we can discuss. Now, what has been mentioned here and we also need to discuss whether this statute of limitations applies to some crimes committed during Austria-Hungarian or not to talk about the Byzantine or the Roman Empire. A criminal procedure can only be conducted against a living man. While the perpetrator of the crime is alive and is out of date, it applies to him whether he is 50, 70 or 100 years old. In his presentation on the Committee on Justice, the minister said the scope of this institute would be determined by biology. And that's exactly what it is, while the perpetrators are alive against them, criminal proceedings can be conducted, and while they are alive against them, if we accept this, the graces of old will not be applied. And where can these crimes be committed for which we are obsolete? Well, anywhere. Criminal legislation applies primarily to crimes committed on the ground of the Republic of Croatia. All crimes. But we have very clear provisions that such legislation also applies to citizens of the Republic of Croatia who have committed crimes abroad and are now on the territory of the Republic of Croatia. But also against everyone regardless of what nationality he is if he commits a crime against a member, that is, a citizen of the Republic of Croatia. And that's exactly it. All those who have committed between themselves and politically motivated murders and today are hiding because they have aged and are free, we will be able to process on this basis. Given the government's proposal that I personally consider to be good, really good and better than what a group of MPs have proposed. We'll also be able to process someone who, for example, killed in the '60s, who killed a child, a minor, a pregnant woman, if at the time of committing a crime, he put other people at risk, if the murder was committed in a cruel and insidious way out of charity or for concealing or committing another crime or for revenge. It's a serious murder, and that's why they're different from the ones we call them so ordinary. And I really don't understand, I don't understand why someone would want such crimes to remain protected with the Institute of Depreciation. I really don't understand it. And so far, in the debate, I have not heard a single argument that would convince me that this initiative with which we went to this house today, but in front of the entire Croatian public, is wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51801	Thank you. Dinko Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51802	Dear counterpart Grbin, I agree with you how to make sure that the agenda is a point, so the proposal for a decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. But since it's an extremely important decision and later you've partially denied yourself. It cannot only be discussed about the motion for decisions without touching the contents of any amendments to the Constitution. And we cannot discuss only the proposal which has therefore been made by the Committee or which is based on the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Because he only talks about one amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia regarding serious murders. This is the fifth intervention, that is, we are going to propose a decision on the fifth intervention of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And since it has been said repeatedly that this does not happen every year, then everything that is of exceptional interest to the Republic of Croatia should be included and in new circumstances, because we are a member of the European Union. Previously on Christmas Constitution and all those subsequent interventions in '97, 2000, 2001, 2010, we brought them in different circumstances than we are in today objectively. Therefore, it is also important to open other topics in the debates so that we can finally make an objective decision whether or not to approach the amendments to the Constitution. But not only on the basis of the debate, so I guess the clubs won't be discussing just the opinion of the government or the opinion of the board. It is therefore also desirable that all issues which are of interest to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia be opened in the debates.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51803	Thank you very much. The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51804	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Buric, you're right, but I don't think you fully understood what I was talking about. It is precisely that we here today are discussing whether or not we will approach the amendments to the Constitution and in which direction these amendments of the Constitution should go. We as representatives of the SDP started this discussion this morning with a proposal that this was a politically motivated murder, which we referred not yesterday, not the day before yesterday, not a month ago, in the 7th month. So, three months of this has been under way throughout the Croatian public and the government has come after this debate with one also concrete proposal to extend it to not only be politically motivated killings. I believe your party will come up with certain suggestions when she discusses this. These suggestions should also be considered. And if they're reasonable and they're concrete, they should be accepted. Friends from the Labour Party and they came out with proposals, other parties came out with proposals. But only one option in this House does not speak of anything concrete but points out that they still do not know what is being discussed here today. And I thought that was important to clarify. Today we are discussing whether or not we will change the Constitution. And if we need to change it, what are all the directions we need to go. We of the SDP have suggested one direction. But, of course, no one's locked up for good ideas. All ideas need to be listened to. And if there really is something else that would be reasonable, it would be good to adopt why not. But the fact remains that some proposals come and some don't. It's just a misunderstanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51805	Vladimir Shakespeare, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51806	The procedure for amending the Constitution is strictly formalized with the Constitution. I agree that various proposals and initiatives can also be presented in the parliamentary debate brought forward by a number of representatives today who are interested in changing the Constitution in certain directions. But I note that under Article 147. The Constitution may propose to amend the Constitution at least 1/5 representatives, the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Outside these mandated motions to change the Constitution can be different initiatives and proposals but must be formalised to enter a valid procedure for changing the Constitution. So if 1/5 MPs intend to do what, proposed amendments to the Constitution, what was presented today by different fellow MPs, then they must be formalised and put forward a proposal to change the Constitution that will be supported by 1/5 MPs. This can be debated, but essentially the core of the debate should be reduced to.... We today have two actually proposals to approach the change of the Constitution. One of the groups of MPs who presented his colleague, Grbin, submitted on 10 July by 46 MPs, the government gave its opinion and supported the proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution towards initiative 46 MPs, but the government itself was also an authorised proponent within the meaning of Article 147. The constitution proposed its proposal to supplement the Constitution towards abolishing the age of the most difficult killings. So that's what this is all about, we're now discussing two initiatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51807	Thank you very much. Time, buddy. Replication response, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51808	Thank you. No, we're not discussing two initiatives. We are here today in accordance with Article 148(1). We are discussing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, and in a few days we will decide whether to approach the amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. And after we decide that, and I believe this home will make such a decision, in accordance with Article 60. The Rules of Procedure of the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system which you and I are members will discuss and establish a draft amendment to the Constitution. So today we are conducting a debate in which any proposal to amend the Constitution of any representative in this House, any club of representatives in this House, is considered necessary, any of us, based on our thinking of changing the Constitution, and not just what we of the SDP or colleagues from the Government have written, thinks that we should change. Every single one of us had that right. But I'm going to say it again, from most clubs and most of the MPs in this house, the proposals come, only from one group of proposals can't be heard. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51809	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51810	Dear Madam Vice President. In my opinion, you insult the intellectual level of MPs in this House and the entire Croatian public. You're trying to do something that's hidden from the satellite, and it's just that it's gone beyond measure, and it's starting to irritate. So if we had to talk, then we'd change the Constitution, then we'd remember why we'd change. What we're talking about, we need to know in advance why we're going to change the Constitution. Okay, if we all make a deal, we make a deal, if you don't change whatever you want, then we'll do it in two years and sooner. If that's how we change the Constitution, and it's stupid and Croatia didn't deserve it. But I think here I've heard different nonsense, can only be tried by living people. According to your approximately ruling, not out of your context, but out of your occupation it turns out that you can only be tried by those who have already been convicted, but because of old age, they have not endured punishment. Well, we need to judge events if we're going to, as we're judging, a process is being conducted to find the killer or kidnap that English kid in Portugal, and we don't know who took her, or if the child is alive, whether the kidnapper is alive, anything, but we're conducting an investigation. So we must investigate all killings in Croatian communist laws and all prison managers and those workers and those party secretaries must come under indictment, and you know how many people... are in communist Yugoslavia for political reasons sent to these prisons. A lot. You have no idea what you're talking about, you think we're just gonna do this in a hurry... and you're gonna get into such trouble that you don't know what you're getting yourself into.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51811	Replication response, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51812	If I have offended you, dear colleague, I will now apologize. But what you're saying has nothing to do with anything. We have our laws in which it is very clear to whom, when and under what conditions courts can judge, and I don't think it should be specifically explained that courts can judge only living people. And what you're talking about, the dead and what they did, we should leave history behind. I am trying to do this and I want to talk in this house about concrete things that will have consequences for the work of the judicial bodies of the Republic of Croatia, the work of the executive authority, etc. This provision that we have proposed, concretely, will affect the work of the judicial authorities that today because they came into possession of some papers they couldn't do before the 1990s, they have the knowledge that someone 30 or 40 years ago committed crimes. And they can't do anything about it because it's out of date. They can't. Well, we want to change that. And this second one again, you and your colleague have now made no concrete suggestion of what to change in the Constitution except what we have suggested, nor have you said that abolishing the statute of limitations for the crimes of serious murder is good. Do you want someone who committed a serious murder, and for whom the statute of limitations remains unpunished? Well, it's in itself that you want to protect someone. Make a concrete suggestion and finally explain why you are against what we propose and all the other colleagues in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51813	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51814	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Grbin, I am interested in the position of the amendment group of the Constitution and the Government whether, in your opinion, you have proposed amendments to the Constitution if they are not accepted in any way, to have implications for the obligations of the Republic of Croatia under the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. That is what the Supreme Court said, although the government did not welcome the Supreme Court’s position with joy, however. But since it is the Supreme Court that decides how to deal with suspects covered by the European arrest warrant, I believe there is no need for haste. I understand your proposal and the government's position and I don't think there's any reason not to support it. But then the proposer or the ruling majority, when she was entering the amendments to the Constitution, had to go in some order, and that order implies respecting the initiative that was created in the Government and on the table of this House. And then, first, wait for the referendum, carry out the referendum. If he imposes an amendment to the Constitution, then this initiative and any other initiative and regional structure could go against it, and then you would be credible. This is how you move us a ball that we do not plead, and you already have 750,000 Croatian citizens launched that initiative and it is not enough for you to go to the amendment of the Constitution, you are telling us that we did not join your request. Let's put it in order, let's get first on the initiative that exists, and then we can put all the other party proposals on the table and discuss them. This is the impression, Mr. Grbin, that this is about amending the Constitution to prevent any arrest warrants already in the Republic of Croatia. And that's what this is about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51815	The answer to the replica of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51816	First of all, I would like to thank my colleague Bacic. You were the first person to be very clear about this proposal that the government made and you supported it, and I'm glad for that. Now, about this other one. This European arrest warrant thing has nothing to do with it. You have now called for one Supreme Court decision and that Supreme Court decision that I may or may not have to agree with does not matter, because I do not make such a decision indicates that such a change is necessary. Because this Supreme Court decision applies exclusively to situations where extradition is sought for a criminal offence in the EU Member State. And what about those crimes where the proceedings outside the Republic of Croatia didn't begin? Will we allow our past sins to be brought to Germany, Great Britain or elsewhere, or do you think it is time for us in the Republic of Croatia to start solving some things that we should have done a long time ago? Now, as far as the European arrest warrant is concerned, which is not at all the subject of this change today, I must stress that the Vice-President of the European Commission in which you swore before last week has made it very clear that the question of the European arrest warrant, i.e. the Law on judicial cooperation for the European Commission, has been resolved. And I don't see why you would open it again. Now here at home, let's sort out those things that aren't the subject of this god-awful, because I don't know if that European arrest warrant has come or any other potential. Let's go to Croatia and get rid of the things that happened here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51817	I don't know what you're showing me, colleague Bacic. ... There's still 11 seconds left. [[Bačić, you can't hear.]] On behalf of the SDSS Club, colleague Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51818	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I was unable to monitor the debate at the beginning of today's session when my colleague Reiner reported on the matter of the referendum initiative. I would like to say that the SDSS Club feels the same way that the referendum initiative should be implemented through the procedure and allow the referendum to be called. Although one very reasonable question is raised, the question to those who are driving this initiative and the question to all of us here. We run an ideological anti-liberal campaign by the initiative in terms of understanding the marriage community, and we do not wonder what is really happening to us with marriages. We do not ask why there are fewer and fewer marriages in Croatia, why they are getting shorter, why they are getting married later. Why in this segment society, not just because of the general trends that exist in the world today, but because of the catastrophic state we have in society. It's not what we do, it's what we do. It's what we do. It's what we do. It's what we do. Same-sex marriages. And the fact that Croatian marriages, marriage communities, marriage institutions and society are failing as a whole. That's not what we're worried about. There is a moral sermon held here and there, but we are not having any serious political debate about it. Well, neither are our HDZ colleagues here, and I'm sure they don't think so. I'm sure they care about these questions. How many marriages are there, how sustainable and when they get into them? That's not what we're discussing. And you're accusing the left-hand side of imposing ideological discussions, and you're imposing them yourself in an unreasonable anti-liberal campaign that's being launched here. But it's your business and your political decisions, but I think it's counterproductive. Another thing I'd like to say about the anti-communist campaign that we're accepting here from European circles, so let's translate it into our home opportunities. Whose wars are we fighting in an anti-Communist story? What sense does that make for the Republic of Croatia and the Croatian society? Is our past bloody, the past of others? Partly, yes, but it concerns us first. Is our experience something that we should trade with or someone to take out on a tray so that someone can run us here? I'm absolutely against it. Well, if Croatian patriotism is understood, then we'll get rid of that story. No one's bothered that he's so-called. "Communist property" robbed and what happened to it and what other remains of that property such as Croatia's insurance, such as the bank and others, must be sold. Yes, but an anti-Communist hack against the spirits of the past must be conducted. For who? For the new colonizers we're about to establish here. And you call it patriotism. It's not patriotism. This patriotism is neither in Croatia nor in any other segment of the world. So let's stop this debate. They are not only not responsible and aware as counterpart Lesar calls, they are absolutely harmful to Croatia, absolutely harmful. Now let's get back to the scale of the thing itself. Even before the metrics, if we want our bloody past, so no one needs to prove from whom all sides are and for which all the reasons are bloody, and especially I would not want to prove here as a representative of Serbs in Croatia, and I could. But I don't want out of responsibility to the younger generation that comes to this House's gallery, out of responsibility to the people who live in this country and who don't have another country and won't have another country. But if we want to turn our bloody past into our bloody present and future then we are irresponsible and unconscious world. And blood isn't just about politically motivated murders, blood is about destroying the substance of the social that we have. It's blood when people and your vitals leave the country. It's blood when your vitals are out of business and he's getting used to not having a job. Who is politically responsible for this? Are we going to judge both these people and such a policy because it reduces the number of children born, because it makes it impossible for marriage to be made. No, but we won't discuss it, we'll discuss only conceptions. Is there, can it be or can't be? And it's as if this doesn't cause a greater or smaller percentage of the birth rate. Absolutely! But let's get back to the scale of things. My colleagues and colleagues were against us as a club, we were against an initiative that went from a group of MPs because the definition or concept of politically motivated murders was multiplely questionable or questionable. I'm just gonna ask you one question here. Tomorrow, will someone from the Republic of Croatia as a member of the Military Union who has the responsibility to fight terrorism and to go into the business of liquidating terrorists in the name of the fight against terrorism, shall we consider it fellow Members and colleagues politically motivated by murder? Or are we just going to consider one type of ideology reserved for political murder? And ideologies change throughout history, very quickly. Or we will protect our constitution from that kind of arbitraryness, from that kind of risk and from that kind of ideological burden. If the first constitutionalists in this country wanted to do so, they would have done so, but they protected as much as they could from it. In rhetoric and other matters, it was abundant in everyday life, but when it came to the Constitution, then it sought to protect itself. That's why we didn't support that proposal. But the one who comes from the government and who has accepted the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure, which is a matter of serious murder, we accept. We don't have a death sentence, but a responsibility for a serious, brutal murder should be kept as something that doesn't have a legal statute of limitations. And in that sense, it makes sense, and I believe you'll agree. And it especially makes sense to expand that debate like some clubs did. It is to expand everything we think is necessary to change the constitutional order, constitutional norms where they are not well laid, where they are not well regulated to be laid down and regulated. I will now join what my colleague Lesar has already said and say that when it comes to the referendum it should be changed. In our euro enthusiasm, we have adopted provisions on the calling of the Constitution that are impossible and are completely in conflict with the calling of referendums at other levels. For example, why in the town of Lovran should I not know 8 or 10 thousand people at least come up for a referendum on some referendum issue that is important for the local self-government unit, and for the Republic of Croatia for all its citizens enough to get 800 people out and that 799 says that or 401 says that the referendum is valid. So where's the constitutionality? Where is the equality of citizens? Of course she's gone, but we've thrown her under our feet in all our Euro-enthusiasm, and now she needs to make it right. Europe is important to us but our citizens and the principle of equality of our Constitution must be absolutely protected and I believe you agree. And in that sense, we at the club support the SDSS club, we support this initiative and this proposal. On the other hand, there are two other places that are controversial when it comes to our constitutional order. We have two constitutional laws called the Constitution of laws, which are... to be constitutional laws and which we have sold to others as a horn under a candle but in fact in advance we thought it wouldn't be constitutional laws. The constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution is called the Constitutional Law, no, but we will not give it the status of constitutional law, but we will give him the status of laws that are passed as well as other laws. We think that we need to consider and change this now. The constitutional law on the implementation of the Constitution is very important and should be adopted in accordance with the procedure of the Constitution. The same goes for ladies and gentlemen and the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities. The issue of equality between national minorities is one of the fundamental values of the Croatian Constitution, regardless of what it looked like in practice and no matter how much we may dispute over certain elements of it, but that is not how we cannot declare the Constitutional Law on the Rights of National Minorities by unconstitutional law but by organic law which will be adopted under the procedure of ordinary laws or organic laws. These are the two elements that need to be changed. And since we've already opened the debate in this way that I think we're showing a much higher degree of seriousness than when the debate started and we're showing that we're ready to focus on ourselves, not because someone is asking us from Europe or not, we respect it, but first we have to respect our own internal legal order and we need to look at where they are controversial and critical places when it comes to our order. And in this sense, I find it very reasonable to open the debate and to ask whether our constitutional provisions on decentralisation and regionalisation have been heard many times in the Croatian Parliament in the last 23 years, whether they have a place for this kind of debate and how meaningful they are and how to find a solution to their meaning. Here's how the SDSS club sees the thing. And it is fortunate that after this controversy between colleagues Bačić and his colleagues, it becomes clear that the purpose of these constitutional changes is not to commit ourselves to a case of politically motivated murder nor to a politically motivated murder as a whole, but to look at what are the controversial places in our Constitution that should change it to strengthen and strengthen the constitutional position of the Republic of Croatia, especially the constitutional position of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51819	Thank you too, colleague. We have 14 replicas. Gordan Jandrokovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51820	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, it could be a lot harder to replicate but I'll only decide on one thing, it's the the thesis that an anti-communist hack is being raised in Croatia today. So I will because of you fellow Pupovac but also because of these young people who are worse and who listen to us and watch me read part of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe resolution to see how they speak of the communist crime. "The totalitarian communist regimes of Central and Eastern Europe in the last century included individual and collective killings and executions. Deaths in concentration camps, starvation, deportation, torture, forced labor and other forms of mass physical terror. The perpetrators of these crimes were not brought to justice by the international community as was the case with the terrible crimes committed by Nazism. As a result, public awareness of the crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes is very low. Communist parties are legal and active in some countries although in some cases they have not distanced themselves from the crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes in the past. Victims of totalitarian regimes still alive or their families deserve compassion, understanding, and recognition for their suffering. The Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe calls on all Communist or post-communist parties to do so in their countries if they have not re-evaluated the history of communism and their own past and are clearly distanced from the crimes committed by totalitarian communist regimes and to condemn them without any ambiguity." That's not what HDZ is saying to you, the Council of Europe resolutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51821	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51822	This does not say HDZ but says the same political mind only from the European framework. You don't have to tell me because I was involved in these discussions. I'll tell you why I think it's controversial to use that campaign on our occasion. First, there is no doubt that the crimes committed in communist times should either be sanctioned or the victims rehabilitated, there is no doubt about it. But to revive on this background an anti-Communist campaign, especially in our circumstances, in which, and in other Eastern European countries where the danger to these countries is not dead communism, but by growing fascism, but by growing chauvinism, but by growing racism, but by growing systems and systems of values that absolutely devastate these societies as our society does. But we'd like to deal with communism that is no longer available and we wouldn't want to deal with our own present, which is very dangerous. And that's my problem. My problem is not, my problem is not even sanctioning those who committed crimes or rehabilitating victims, my problem is that we allow for someone's reading our past we deal with this bloody past in a way that we forget our own present in a way that relativates the dangers that come from this present and in a way that we actually see in that debate they push us to become bigger and bigger... The poor, the poor. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That what we created at that time that we have to sell today so we have a budget tomorrow and we allow ourselves the luxury of dealing with that kind of question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51823	Thank you very much. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51824	Thank you. Well, I have to admit that I'm a surprise little fellow Pupovac, it's not just about the Council of Europe resolution that you and I have been involved in. And it is not true that only one political option prevails in the Council of Europe or in the European Parliament. There is no ruling coalition there like there is in this House. Neither in the Council of Europe, and you know it as well as I or in the European Parliament, and you know it well. And that's why I'm surprised that today you're actually defending here at this pay phone Communism. You stood in defense of communism. You stood up for a totalitarian regime, a non-democratic, totalitarian criminal regime. I can ask you another question now, when you're talking about an anti-communist campaign. Why, say, the SPD Social Democracy in Germany does not accept and refuse to co-ordinate with former communists? Why don't they give them legitimacy? Why... Angeli Merkel also doesn't want to give legitimacy to the left? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Although, for instance, the SPD could rule Germany if it wanted to coalition with the communists. No, they wouldn't give them democratic legitimacy because they don't have it and they can't have it because of what they've been doing for 50 years. Communism has unfortunately killed more victims than Nazism and fascism together. The other thing is that he lasted longer, it's true. But they are a general place in European politics today, when we talk about democratic forces in Europe, it is a condemnation of all totalitarian regimes and these are both communism and fascism and Nazism. It's a general place, Mr. Pupovac. We sat together in the same forums. And today here to defend and to say that we are transferring, we are not transferring the debate from the Council of Europe or the European Parliament, we are part of that Europe today, if you forgot on 1 July we entered the European Union. We have nothing to carry. We either take part in these values or we don't. And you weren't participating today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51825	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51826	When the changes took place in the late 1980s whether because of your age or for some other reason, I did not hear your name among the more significant names in Croatia that advocated democracy. ... I say, I didn't hear, it may be wrong but you had to hear my name, you had to hear my name. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Therefore, your meal that I advocate totalitarianism is a typical type of discourse that comes from your side. When you want to shut someone up, then you have no arguments but to share... but it's not a practice from today, it's a practice unfortunately for a very long time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But that practice is not a serious political rhetoric. And she's not doing any good. Another thing I'd like to tell you. Yes, we sat in the same Council of Europe and we are in the same European Union but we do not advocate the same values, we did not participate or conduct the same debate. While I defended Croatian communists who contributed to reforms including democratic reforms such as Hungarian communists contributed because we will not condemn all political parties as being equal. Because Hansel Racan wasn't the same as Enver Hodge. Until then, it has not occurred to you to do so that one constitutional party in the Republic of Croatia which makes a significant contribution to the constitutional order and democracy in this country and has contributed to those years, you would like to place it all in the same basket. That's a big difference. And finally and perhaps most importantly, to identify regimes such as Nazism and fascism and ideology with ideological denials such as communism is absolutely unacceptable. But that is the meaning of a new conservative revolution that enslaves Europe with a new type of imperialism but you don't care because you don't see the average Croatian man passing You've settled well in that new... [[Thank you very much.]] Order. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51827	Thank you. Branko Vuksic replica. A colleague, Vuksic. Branko Vuksic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51828	Here we came to the hot terrain, you asked at one point where the equality of the citizens was. She's gone. But not just the referendum, because you were talking about the referendum, where the equality of the referendum is with different criteria. And in this replica you said one thing that's visible. In these ideological wars, citizens' problems are pushed aside. You can't see how to live. This system is far more cruel for most citizens than it was before. Yeah, I don't expect anything else from neoliberal because you don't see how the people live. You can't see, you can't see. You'll bring on the stamps and the beggar stick with these policies. These are two neoliberal parties in action with different omens. What you said is true, the only thing that doesn't bother them is what happened in the former state, which was broken apart, sold out. I disagree with you, you said a sentence that we must sell Croatia's postal bank and we must sell Croatia's insurance, we don't have to, you act like a neoliberal. We have to sell, we don't have to sell. That's two companies that make profits, that's two companies that can make more profits, that's two companies where we can build an economy. I repeat, what did not sell out HDZ will sell out SDP under the exception of the state is a bad master. The state is a great master when it's a great power and they're great people who run companies. The four countries that have the most state ownership are just Scandinavian states and they prove that this is all you're saying just to get some as much money in their pocket as possible when they get the percentages they sell.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51829	Thank you very much. Please take care of the weather. The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51830	Dear colleague Vuksic, when I said he had to sell, I didn't think we had to because we needed it either wisely or logically, but because we got into a situation that either we're going to be out in debt on expensive interest or we're going to sell what's left at home. I don't think the state is a bad master. There are many entrepreneurs who have shown for 20 years that they are unable to be entrepreneurs, and are created by parties and party states. You can talk about communism as long as you want, Communism lasted since '45. '90s. But the party authorities extended after that, and they had social property or state property even worse than the communists had. Thus, they created masters who did not deserve it and who were unable to do so. And to talk about it, and that's notorious facts, that's what women in the market know, that's what the workers who lost their jobs know, but we're just pretending we don't know, only we from our country want to create what? Nothing. To meet employers' demands that we should have a cheaper and cheaper state, that we should create assumptions that they can be competitive towards where, outside but with what? With state funds and trade and business with the state. First there will be no state for the citizens, and then there will be no state for them either. That's the meaning of the project that's being advocated here, and I agree with you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51831	Miroslav Tudjman, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51832	Thank you. In his debate, he said that the constitutional order should be respected, that the constitutional order should be respected. The Croatian Constitution states, among other things, that it is being brought to a historic turning point for the rejection of the communist system. Therefore, to advocate today is not only the case that these declarations of the European Council and the European Parliament condemn totalitarianism that this is an import product as you wish to say, which imposes on Croatia for what reasons but is one valuable system against all totalitarianisms. On the other hand, in these declarations totalitarianism differs from communist parties. Therefore, communist parties who led totalitarian regimes are condemned, and you are now selling to us under your discussion communism because you literally said it, anti-Communism is that. I agree with you that patriotism does not come down to anti-communism, but to accept communism as a value today is still a few dozen years behind all that Croatia, or the European order, has experienced and it means to advocate totalitarian ideas and totalitarian values. And that's what's simply unacceptable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51833	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51834	Comrade Tudjman, I would like to thank you for reading that part of the Croatian Constitution and I must say that not because it is written in the Croatian Constitution but because it is part of my system of values, I agree with you. When we started to change the communist system and its constitutional order from different positions in the late '80s, then we went to a change in the communist system, one-party, completely ideological, dominated by one-party, one-type ideology, one-type ownership and one-type relationships between people, and in this respect, there's no difference between you and me. But if it wants to expand to ban ideas, to ban politics, to ban parties, like your colleague who reported first to the replica said, so if we're going to have a practice to excommunicate certain political parties because of their past, then where would we come from? ... Well, yes, you said the Social Democrats in Germany don't want to co-ordinate with the left because they're the former communist past. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But it's their political practice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Why they do it is their business, but it does not stand in the German Constitution or in any law. And they certainly don't have the kind of political debate we have in Croatia and we've been exhausting this country for 20 and a few years. ... We've spent our fellow Matosevic worse than... and God forbid we should repeat it another time because there would be no ashes left from this country. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And that's why you're better off not mentioning that word, because what we've been through in these 20s and a few years is worse than any... that any communist countries have gone through. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51835	Please. You've reached out to the replicas, then listen to the replicas and answers. Don't come from the bench. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51836	Thank you very much. Comrade Pupovac, it is your legitimate right to present your political opinion in this assembly, none of which defends you, but in giving that political opinion you cannot use the lies. It is not a communist property Croatia Insurance and a Croatian Post Bank. Croatia's insurance was founded by Croatian citizens in 1884 and the Croatian Post Bank was founded as a stock company in October of '91. A year. So much for facts. The second thing, we would know well that this political option on this side was never at the end of the day to sell neither Croatian insurance nor HPB because at the end of the day you participated in the coalition and you know well which I personally suffered as a resolute minister and attacks to sell it. So much for that. The only real followers of the communist property, the Communist party of Croatia, is SDP. They inherited their property. So, after all, whose hotel is she that Rodman bought? Who got that money? Wait a minute, wait a minute. The HDZ did not inherit any real estate from the SDP. So, the Socialist Democratic Party of Croatia, the party of democratic change is the heir to the property of the communist party of Croatia. Thus, the heritage and its certain political mistakes. But that's what I'm talking about. Speaking of economics, it is likely that when these hot times pass, someone in Croatia will calculate how many jobs in Croatia have been lost due to the huge Serb aggression committed under the political patronage of a sister communist party of Serbia again. These are facts we can't escape from. Unfortunately, however, in Croatia, I am offended by the right that thieving is not a thief if it is done by someone on the other hand, but the thief is reserved for only one political option. And the biggest tragedy will be if the murders, [[Thank you very much, dear colleague.]] And these two laws that are offered are again reserved for one political option [[Intruder Zgrebec: colleague Shuker.]] and this is the historic collective guilt of the Croatian people that has been imposed on this people for centuries. [[Now you will again say that.../]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51837	Thank you very much. Now you're gonna tell me to tolerate things differently. You see how much time you've gone too far. There is no socialist party in the Croatian Parliament. There is a Social Democratic Party that, for your information in the 1990s, in the fall, brought a historic declaration condemning communist crimes. Comrade Milorad Pupovac, reply to the replica. Come on in. Injury of Rules of Procedure Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51838	Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, you have no one, You're running a session? [[You don't understand.]] When your party suggests you be there to run the session, then take her.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51839	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51840	So wait a minute, where are you going?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51841	Here you go, Comrade Shucker. Don't. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51842	To warn your nervous party friends first. I know it's hard to admit that you are the followers of someone who has done so much evil to the Croatian people, but that is your problem. Oh, no? So, you guys can't have sex with me, because I didn't have sex with you at all, but with my colleague, Pupovec. And that's where you hurt the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51843	I didn't hurt the Rules of Procedure, I just said there is no Socialist Party in the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Pupovac, here you go. Please, a little peace!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51844	I almost told Comrade Shuker, but I'm still gonna tell my colleague Shuker. First thing we shouldn't argue about. Croatian Democratic Community The first thing we shouldn't argue about here when it comes to the Croatian Democratic Community. [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Who can't hold back let's get out of the assembly. Please!]] The Croatian Democratic Community is that this is said in our newer language statement by the main party of Croatian political life at the right political centre for me and the rest. And that's how it is when we were in the coalition and we weren't in the coalition, and that's how it is today when we're not in the coalition. And anyone who doesn't understand it has problems with me, too. But these problems with denying other political parties to the background of ideological campaigns run in Croatia such as denying the Social Democratic Party of Croatia or charging her with the past, so I think it's time to stop it. And the purpose of my intervention was not to teach you that when a Croatian postal bank was established, because you know it better than I do, and when Croatia's insurance is secured, and there is no point in me telling you what happened to the Business Bank, or what happened to Zagreb Bank or to all the other banks in the Republic of Croatia, or to everything else and when I talk about the property of my colleague Schuker. I don't know what SDP has, but I know he inherited less than he could, than what he owned at the time. But I do know how many of the HDZ's had in the '90s, how they were dressed, what they were driving and what they have today and what they own today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51845	Thank you very much. Vladimir Shakespeare, replica. Here you go, fellow Shakespeare. Here you go, pal Shakespeare. And it's also true for the right-hand side. If you can't hold back, get out. Here you go, pal Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51846	Thank you very much. Comrade Pupovac, you have here addressd to run an anti-Communist hack, and you have not addressed who is in charge of this. It cannot be understood from the illusions of yours who, to whom it is legitimate, to whom it applies. There's no anti-communist hack running around here. This is about reviving important international legal documents and documents of the Croatian Parliament. Resolution of the European Parliament on European Consciousness and... Which you said was the creation of a right-wing political option. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's not true, bud. The resolution was voted 553 votes for or 88%, 44 against or 7% and 33% of the European Parliament's 630 MPs. The resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe and, in particular, the reviving of the Croatian Parliament declaration of condemnation of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in the Republic of Croatia since '45. '90s. A year. It's not about condemning any communist party or movement, it's about condemning the crimes committed at the time of that totalitarian communist order. Keep this in mind and do not question and insinuate HDZ that it advocates anything other than one conviction of all totalitarian regimes and the satisfaction of their victims.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51847	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51848	First of all, as far as the campaign goes, or whatever you say, hickeys. Unfortunately, it is against the imaginary because I do not see any communist danger or any serious communist actors or representatives of the rehabilitation of communist values. But this imaginary campaign is under way, undisputed. It is also held in our Parliament, held in our public on various occasions, including this one about one crime and one question. And it's been going on for a few months at a time. I'm just asking what we need? Why are we doing something we don't need? What's that for? I'm thinking it doesn't serve us, that it serves someone else. As for the parties, if you'd listened to your colleague Shakespeare like you listened to me listen to your colleagues, and I believe you're giving them the same status as those you disagree with, then you'd have heard that they mentioned the parties, yes. Therefore, the dispute is only about it. The issue is not even about restoring the value of the communist systems, let alone the communist system I was talking about in the middle with my colleague Tudjman. And the slow thing that we would also like to agree on is to agree that this doesn't make sense and accept constitutional changes in a valid way. So the fact that my replicas, that the replica of my discussion did not refer to the question of the referendum, nor to the question of two constitutional laws, nor to the question of decentralisation, but exclusively to the story of communism and not communism. And now you're accusing me of being devoted to it for five minutes or three minutes in my speech, and not by the substance of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51849	Thank you very much. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51850	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, here's a fellow Pupovac my replica will be treated in that direction. And I was hoping when you started out so calmly that there would be a debate in another direction and when you said that the "In the Name of the Family" initiative should be conducted, I understood. But, of course, I wasn't happy to hear you say that you've mostly honored us in some way on the right, not to worry about the condition of the family, the state of marriage, etc. We are very concerned about this situation, the state of poverty where 35% of citizens are in extremely difficult times of poverty, where the number of unemployed people, where the cost of life has grown so drastically, the high VAT must be worrying us all and we have warned about it and I have warned for sure from this place about that population from which I come from in rural areas that face immensely difficult opportunities, existence, decay and so forth. You were also talking about childcare, of course, but when the child was not respected, Article 64 was not respected. There was no vote on the rights of the parents. We can be colleagues of Pupovac both in one way or another euphorically pathetically speaking, etc., but I would like to say that they should also be pawned and that if these young people are to be allowed not to be deprived of that right to the housing savings, they should not be deprived of the right of tax relief for the first real estate. These are the things that interest our young people, and in this way you will enable them and make it easier for them to walk through life. We can use a number of big words, but surely a single work does more than a hundred words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51851	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51852	My esteemed colleague could not be in my mind that you or the MPs and representatives of the Croatian Democratic Community could be people with no feelings and no worries about what is happening in Croatia. That's what I don't think and I didn't say that. But what I did say was there's not enough talk on your part. You mentioned the first real estate tax. We don't agree to end it either. But the first voice we heard about it was not from you but from one member of the ruling coalition. Therefore, it is not my place to tell you what I would do if I were you in the opposition, but it is mine to tell you that this type of amount of ideological topics that Croatian politics in the past year have been burdening and leading to disturbances of international relations among others is something that absolutely Croatia does not need. And my purpose was to turn to what is now vital, vital to the citizens of Croatia. Not imaginary enemies, not the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51853	Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51854	Dear Madam Madam President, here's my colleague, I'll give you some more pleasure because I see you enjoying that when you say something that half of the Parliament is doing so to you and your thesis. But here's what I think we should say. First, my replica refers to one clear one... one question of one of your findings that you support the government and that you support a change of constitution. We need to support the change of government, this incompetent government to make us all feel better. The replica in this is essentially over. But I have something else to say. You defend communist dictatorships consciously or unconsciously or for demagogue or some profiteering or some of their reasons but here you are clear, I say anything but I didn't use you for language, that's what you said. Defend communist dictatorships, communist regimes. The communist regime has done more evil to the Serbian people than any other regime, so now I don't list people. It's just like the way, and you're actually attacking the government by replacing the thesis, because it doesn't put on the agenda the right topics, but let's say some of these non-important topics, and you're now supporting the government to change the Constitution and so many unemployed are growing and all the other negative trends. Because you don't tell the government let's talk about this now, not about that. And in the end, it's not my place to tell all of us what we should be talking about. And in the end, I'm telling you what the opposition should do, so I'm telling you it's not my Mr. Pupovec that I tell you what you're supposed to do, but I'm still gonna tell you something. If I were you, as president of the SDSS, I'd do about this Cyrillic issue to tell people people, and so it's all good we have great national rights like nowhere in Europe, we have problems in Vukovar, we kill wounded people, we let people go, so what if for a while we were delayed, we'd be not Napoleon, but we'd be a great man, we'd be... we'd get credit for the trust and improvement of Croatian Serb relations. We'd be bigger than all this nonsense. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51855	... The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51856	The Croats would also praise you, or appreciate you much more than they appreciate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51857	Sit down, fellow Marasovic. Well, the same rules apply to you. Here you go, fellow Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51858	As for your position not to change the Constitution but to change the government, colleague Marasovic is the only true opposition position I have heard today and I don't understand why you don't elaborate. I might have stopped somewhere in the government's defense, but that's your job. But what we're doing today is a totally imaginary job. We fight with the windmills of the past. And as for communism and Serbs, look what you just said is very close to the attitudes of the Chetnik movement, and I have nothing with these attitudes and I don't want anything. And I don't want to tell you what it means for the Serbs in Croatia, and I understand that you might find it easy to meet with your colleagues, but you won't be able to meet me easily. Communism is part of our history, part of our statehood we are talking about Croatia and I have a different relationship with it than I have with these ideologys that I have now mentioned to you. And as for Cyrillic, you don't know and you don't need to know what we've done to realize the constitutional law and the law on official use of language and letters does not cause conflicts in Croatia, but we have done a lot. What we now propose and propose to the government, and we suggest to everyone else, is to achieve the degree of what has been done to stop it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51859	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51860	And that there should be a time when it will be possible to continue differently, but what has been done must not be defiled because of respect for the state and above all by the state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51861	Please, colleagues, take care of the weather. Here's a colleague, Djakic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51862	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, you expressed your doubts about the definition that these serious murders were committed from political initiatives. I would help you with this, but I believe that you know it better than I do and the definition that should have stood in this template should certainly have looked as follows, that the serious killings committed by political initiatives initiated and ordered by the Communist party and carried out by the employees of Ujeba, KOS, SDP or OZNA, this definition would clearly state what goal should be pursued. This is how the essence of those who committed murder and the essence of those who were their superiors is hidden. You know that well how it went, you well know how it was done during that time, so here is this supplement short but it would clearly condemn these terrible times of totalitarian communist regimes and clearly give a targeted direction to who the perpetrators and the employers of these murders are. It's not an attack on the Communist party on communism at that time, it's just the truth about events and perpetrators, employers and those who did it. This is how your doubt, which is also hidden in the government's template, is unclear that it was committed from political initiatives. Political initiatives can be a variety of policies, but I think that these amendments to the Constitution that were initiated were certainly in the direction that this European resolution as well as the European standards of condemnation of totalitarian communist regimes and the satisfaction of victims would certainly be defined as such, and they were exposed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51863	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac. No, I don't. Josip Boric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51864	Thank you very much. Well, dear fellow Pupovac, I don't understand your position when you said we support the government's initiative and we don't support the SDP's initiative. Mr. coat of arms has been resisting his last legs all morning to prove it's a unique initiative. Well, I don't get it now. We've been hearing all morning that it's actually one initiative but you're supporting this government not this other. That's questionable. So you'll make that clear. And I tried since my colleague Matušić failed to penetrate your contribution to creating a democratic atmosphere in Croatia, i.e. creating this democratic state, I tried to find myself, because no matter what people forget, it's in the nature of a man to forget. However, technology today allows many things to be remembered. And technology says when your name comes in that you're in '89. They were a member of the Association for the Yugoslav Democratic Initiative. The shortcut is for this UJDI initiative. And it says here, it was founded in the spring of 1989 in Zagreb, its supporters are mostly left-wing liberal intellectuals who advocated a single Socialist Yugoslavia and opposed the creation of a sovereign Republic of Croatia. The first president was Branko Horvat, director of Zarko Puhovski. And then the other board members, I won't list them, but the name is there. ... Is that it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] If he didn't recognize fellow Matušić, I say technology today enables these things.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51865	The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51866	Dear colleague of the Association for, as far as my membership is concerned, I'll tell you something else you haven't read. I'm not saying that anyone should follow me here in this House or beyond it. I was also a member of the Federation of Communists of Croatia, I don't know exactly what years but I know which years I was excluded because I was a member of this initiative that was first formed despite the fact that the system was not in agreement with it. And I don't think there's anything I should be ashamed of in that membership in the Croatian Communist Union. And that's why I'll never hide it, and I never think it's part of my bad political past. If anyone else thinks it's his or her thing. And as for the UJDI if there were more democracy in this country than there is right now and if we had less concern than there is right now, we would discuss this initiative as the first bird, as they say in the English language that opened the door for the democratisation of the former Yugoslavia's space. After that came political parties such as HSLS, so HDZ came, but the first independent press that was made in the former Yugoslavia was a bulletin of the association and I was its editor. Unfortunately, some of the things I used to write in that bulletin came true later. But no one likes to be a good prophet of bad events. I'm not happy about it either. But I am proud to have been with that society and society was much wider and much more important for the democratisation of the country and then the nations, their parties, decided what would happen to that country. I wish things had happened differently but they didn't.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51867	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51868	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Pupovac, since you called me before the end of your presentation for my replica of my colleague, Pegi Grbina, I'll just repeat what I said about him and now I'll call you. You as a party that supports changes, changes to the Constitution, can tell me why and what are the reasons that this change of the Constitution goes according to an urgent procedure and that it has priority over any other amendment of the Constitution. Especially when we know that there is an initiative signed by 750 thousand Croatian citizens who did not have the exclusiveity to be the priority of the ruling coalition and to implement the referendum and to amend the Constitution. That's one thing. And the other thing, from your presentation, is that it is the very reason why I have listed Mr. Grbin in my replica, which is the implications of the European arrest warrant, in part, the reason for this urgency of the procedure, the amendments to the Constitution. Namely, you're from your own debate, and later on, you said in your replica what we need to hear about communist crimes. What's that for? Or you still said if we even had to do it then we're doing it at home and we don't need to go out there and that other such crimes are being questioned. That's how you explained in your debate why it's actually going to change this constitution. And you see, fellow Pupovac, if this Parliament, this country and our party have succeeded, we have had the strength to face the crimes of the homeland war and if for this reason we have determined the jurisdiction of the international court then neither you nor anyone else has the right to prejudge the crimes that the whole of Europe and yet Croatia has not faced with these crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51869	Thank you very much. The answer to the line by Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51870	First of all, constitutional changes. As they went, as you know, dear colleague Bacic, we did not support them. And if that were the case, we wouldn't have supported them. Since the way has changed, since logic has changed, since the scope has changed, since we are now actually discussing the way we should have discussed since the first day we are for it, we are only for such an approach to change the Constitution. For the way he was at that moment those who were members of the Committee on the Constitution, Mr. Shakespeare was sitting as one of them, the others I don't see from the HDZ Club know that we were... against it, but this is the way we are, and I suggest that you be, too. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And as for the crimes committed at the time of the war, about how sanctioned or not, I wouldn't want to burden today's debate. I would not like to burden today's debate, and in general I would like not to have so many replicas because I would very much like to hear what my colleague Buric has to say, which is to say my colleague Kosor, a colleague of Radin, because this competition may well be likable at some point and perhaps challenging for each of us, but it is largely unproductive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51871	Josip Boric, replica. Excuse me, Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51872	55 minutes if I'm not mistaken, it's been exactly since my colleague Pupovac started his debate and after this I personally think that we all need to apologize to the Croatian public together for the way they expect us to look for solutions to get out of the growing crisis in which Croatian citizens are in, discuss ideologies, the past and we don't care about the present, and we don't talk about the future at all. I am in favour of that, it is generally known and the attitude is that of our party, that communist crimes are not forgotten. And it did, Mr. Pupovac, you set off a windmill that's now gone that way wrong. In the debate you touched to be these points of the agenda. This should have contributed to changing something for the better in the life of ordinary Croatian citizens, not only by punishing the crimes of heavy killings that are the basis for the first link to the change of the Constitution. You have touched on other topics and referendums and our initiatives to use the possibility of changing the Constitution to improve life and through decentralisation and regionalisation of Croatia in a different way, including through changes to certain constitutional laws that you have spoken about, and the debate has gone in quite a tenth direction. I think that we should all really apologize to Croatian citizens together, and we don't have to be surprised that we get public ratings the way we get them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51873	Replication response, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51874	My answer to my colleague Buric is that I agree with him 99.9%, except for one thing. I didn't want to be the bait for the replicas of my colleagues from HDZ, but it's indicative that exclusively from that club representatives move their replicas to a small segment of what I was saying. So I'd like to call, so let's get out of it. It is an opportunity to discuss changes to the Constitution in a valid way in the segments that we can right now. Indeed. And as for the marriage initiative, whether I or not agreed with this worldwide initiative or anything else, there were constitutional assumptions for conducting the referendum and there is no one there to stop it. The question can be when... The Parliament, when we need to confirm a referendum decision whatever it is, everyone will find themselves thinking about their views and the decision of the referendum, ended it one way or another, but for now it should go. But my warning is that we don't need to, so you don't have to agree, that we shouldn't wear out with ideological discussions that are open in society, they're not open in the Parliament. Look at what our society looks like, what the newspapers look like, what certain initiatives look like, so you'll see.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51875	Thank you. The Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds will be held today at 13:30 in Hall 133, so I would like the members and members of the Committee to respond. And now on behalf of the promoter Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51876	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Very short, but what were now and the last suggestions to go back to the metrics of things, but many here already agree that no ideological battles should be fought here given the very concise and very specific suggestion that there is no statute of limitations for all serious murders. So here's a colleague, I believe that maybe he didn't think so, but perhaps in the heat of such a debate and some ideological backdrops, I think that's what our colleague Dujo Marasovic said when he said well, but we also want to condemn the phenomena, thinking about those who are already dead and who believe they committed crimes. But it wouldn't be on that trail, you know, but you know who was saying someone else had to be saved, but you have to condemn the phenomenon. We are also doing this proposal to judge persons who have committed serious crimes and let us not fool ourselves that everyone, unfortunately, even from some because when protected under certain policies, can be capable of committing a serious crime, a serious murder. Unfortunately, it is easy for us to condemn former systems, former regimes, but many democratic systems or at least one segment is not immune from committing a serious crime. And that's exactly what I think a consensus can rule about, we think a consensus can rule, political options can change. But what causes the most severe condemnation, the greatest dawn and the greatest contempt for such perpetrators who have committed serious crimes, and especially those committed by political motives or by God for certain noble purposes. When and when we're all on the principle level, we'll all agree on that when we're on the principle level. But sometimes it seems to me that many of us are prisoners of concrete things, which is when we see the victim and see the potential perpetrator. This proposal is neutral in this sense, so that anyone who commits a serious murder is convicted. And we all want the truth to come out. This is a proposal to change the Constitution not for a solution to partial truth, but for the whole truth. And let us be prepared all who seek the truth that these changes will get it to a greater extent than many of us expected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51877	Thank you very much. Joseph Salapic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51878	Thank you very much, Vice President. I listened patiently to all my colleagues and waited for a speech on behalf of the club, but I must say that we are waiting, listening at least here in the assembly, and I believe that the Croatian public was killed in a healthy brain from such discussions, from these issues and questions. The theme of one sentence was created an hour to an hour and ten minutes of debate on one thesis, one topic. This is a matter of starting constitutional changes and a question of different proposals that should come from the representatives' clubs, us MPs who should vote on these changes. It's just that we're back in total history, into issues that won't be dealt with at all with what's being proposed here today, what we need to talk about today. I apologize if I offended someone, but I believe that most of the Croatian public share this opinion with me because intellectual murder is also murder and shooting into a healthy brain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51879	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51880	Then when you argue like that, you contribute to the debate in your tone and your desire not to discuss it, but to say why we are discussing it, and then to those who object why we are discussing it most. The truth is, in part, we return to the past, we return to that segment in the past to correct these injustices, and that such serious crimes can be prosecuted, the most serious crimes, the most severe murders that are now protected by old age. But also, because some of the works that happened in our recent past do not experience the same fate. It's a very simple thing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51881	counterpart Miroslav Tudjman, replica You're giving up. [[Intruder: Cancelling.]] Then we'll listen to the opinion of the HDZ Club and a colleague of Vladimir Seks, and we'll set a break.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51882	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen. The Croatian Democratic Community's advocates' club will support those constitutional changes that aim not to give protection to statutes of limitations, to prevent limitation from being a shield that protects any commanders, or commanders, or perpetrators of crimes of murder, severe murder, killings from political initiatives. We strongly support these constitutional changes, so as not to give protection to those who do not have and should not have the right to protection. So that the statute of limitations may not be in place, that justice, prosecution, investigation and trial of those suspected or accused of the most severe crimes of murder may not be brought in. Today, we were often called here by a colleague on behalf of a group of MPs, a colleague named Peja Grbin, why, what is not advertised by HDZ, what is not advertised, why is not it not advertised. Now we're talking, now listen up, and you'll hear what we say. The Croatian Democratic Representatives' Club we actually opposed it as others on the Committee on the Constitution, but we opposed the reason why we said we were waiting for the Law on the European Arrest Warrant to come. Then we will engage in constitutional changes. This change has been made and we are now counting on these constitutional changes. Therefore, the Croatian Democratic Community's Club supports the government's proposal to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in the manner proposed by the Government in its proposal of 26 July 2013, in a way that complements Article 31. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and regulations do not obsess over the crimes of serious murders prescribed by a special law with retro-active application and constitutional provisions. We also agree with the proposal of a group of 46 MPs who have proposed amending the Constitution to exempt themselves from the outdated crimes of serious murders that will be prescribed by a special law. This is the answer to, therefore, the HDZ agrees to exempt from outdated all those perpetrators of the crimes both severe murders and all those forms of serious murders, and especially politically motivated murders. And now it's very interesting what those like the Prime Minister, Mr Milanovic, will say about that 10 days ago, who said on several occasions that those who disagree with the amendments to the constitution want to protect you from murderers and murders. So, we're not trying to protect murderers or murderers, but we're just trying to change the Constitution to make the doctrines obsolete and that these murderers are their commanders, their employers, or the perpetrators to allow investigations, trials. Therefore, it was a gunshot to the empty charge that was launched specifically against HDZ that there we are looking to approach the adoption of amendments to the Constitution to abolish the statute of limitations because we want to protect murderers politically motivated killings or any other. Therefore, HDZ accepts and supports the accession to change of the Constitution and that the valleys become obsolete for all forms of heavy killings as well as for those politically motivated, but under two conditions. The first is to supplement the Constitution in Article 31(4) with the retroactive validity of the following provision: "There is no limitation for the crimes of murder committed by the communist regime in Yugoslavia." Because we believe it is important and important to install into this constitutional provision precisely on the conviction of these crimes committed by the communist Yugoslav regime. Why? Because in the European Parliament Resolution on European Consciousness and Totalitarianism, which has already been discussed here, it is because Europe's memory of the tragic past must remain alive in order to honor victims and convicts of the perpetrators with the basis for reconciliation based on truth and memory, then on the resolution of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe since 2006 on the need for international condemnation of the crimes of totalitarian communist regimes and finally on the Croatian Parliament declaration of 30 June 2006 on the condemnation of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order in Croatia since '45. '90s. the year in which the fall of the totalitarian communist regimes in Central and Eastern Europe was not on all cases, nor in the case of the Republic of Croatia accompanied by national and/or international investigations of the crimes committed by these regimes. However, the perpetrators of these crimes were not brought to justice by the international community as was the case with the terrible crimes committed by national socialism. Therefore, for these very reasons, there are particularly valid reasons to strongly stress in the Constitution the non-depreciation of the murder of the perpetrator by the totalitarian communist Yugoslav regime. I hope that no party to this assembly will object that on the basis of these declarations of the European Parliament, the Council of Europe, the Croatian Parliament Declaration to remove this request. The second condition of the HDZ for the adoption of the Government's proposal, including this other group of representatives for the amendment of the Constitution, is the requirement of the HDZ to adopt, in parallel with the amendment of the Constitution, a constitutional law for the implementation of the amendments to the Constitution which I would now say Colloquial but it will be regulated to conduct in Croatia a procedure that would exclude the possibility of a procedure in Croatia in case of proceedings against a person already being conducted in one of the EU member states on a European arrest warrant. Or, therefore, that criminal proceedings are being initiated in the EU Member States have a championship in relation to a procedure which could be initiated before the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia. Why? This formulation helps the ruling majority to remove an effective objection that the change of the Constitution occurs solely because of one person. Such a constitutional law for the implementation of the Constitution would also neutralise those possible objections from certain EU member states or some other politically relevant circles that Croatia wants to fulfil its commitments under the accession treaty by refusing to perform a European arrest warrant with constitutional and legal engineering. Such changes to the Constitution and the Law on the Implementation of the Constitution would strengthen Croatia's credibility as new EU members. I would like to remind myself that HDZ has also advocated the amendment of the Constitution to come into force after the full application of the Law on Judicial Cooperation, and the adoption of this Constitutional Law on the Implementation of the Constitution would allow the HDZ to vote in favour of the amendment of the Constitution and before that would take effect before 1.1.2014. The HDZ Club will submit its proposal to supplement the amendments to the Constitution and the proposal for the adoption of the Constitutional Law for the implementation of the Constitution. It'll be done in the next few days. We hope that the ruling majority will have the understanding we had in 2010 when they were the government's initiative to change the Constitution and when it was the initiative of the opposition group, today the positions for changing the Constitution where these two initiatives met and where there was a political compromise. The HDZ, therefore, strongly advocates and advocates a change in the Constitution that would eliminate any possibility that criminals of any kind would protect themselves, receive protection from prosecution and thus avoid the hands of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51883	Thank you. We'll do the replicas after the break. I'm setting up a break. We'll proceed at 15.00 hours. My colleagues and colleagues, it's 15 hours and 1 minute, we're back to work. We have two reports of Mr. Shakespeare's exposure. I don't see him in the conference room. Here's the first replica is colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51885	... He knows what's coming, so he boldly drifted away on your yesterday's trail. [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51886	Here you go, buddy. We've started working.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51887	Like this. A fellow Shex, speaking on behalf of the HDZ Club, hints or supports us and the government to support constitutionals, to approach the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by not obsessing over serious crimes. He interprets it for the first time and that how someone so called and called Prime Minister Milanovic could say this is why they are against it, who protects crimes. However, it is noteworthy that Mr. Shakespeare, that Mr. Shakespeare,... On my right, which is not a good sign, we did everything on the Legislative Committee and we believe that it wasn't just an initiator to defuse these changes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So he asked questions that were specifically issues of criminal law, such as how the issue of trying will be resolved, the issue of complicity that was solved by the Penal Code. However, these are already insignificant things. It was a human mistake, Mr. Shakespeare, and it's a good thing that you're correcting human beings, so change your mind and conform to these changes. Which we certainly consider to be a major step forward and one step forward, which, by the only big step, is the step you've made. However, to condition your consent and your support for these changes with two things, as the first thing to specifically indicate that these are communist crimes. We claim exactly in these changes And what the government is proposing, here's just one sentence. [[Intruder: Time.]] That it's just been absorbed by it. [[/Intruder: Here you go.]] Because when we were making changes, when we were making changes to the Constitution not to obsess over the crimes of conversion and privatisation we didn't put in the parentheses that HDZ committed. It's one thing and as far as these other conditions are concerned, it's a shot at your own judiciary. Please, we have the Law on the Cooperation of Croatia with other judicial bodies rather than... The Croatian judiciary as you suggest. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Thank you, colleagues.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51888	We understand, we have an answer, colleague Shakespeare, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51889	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I'm sorry you didn't use this time of the break a little bit more savings than you did, but... So you've been a little superficially accessing things that aren't your common custom. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You're saying you don't need a special paragraph like this to lift a ban on communist crimes, because if it were meant to be, killings are meant to be from your proposal that the crimes committed by political initiatives are communist crimes. Something won't keep up with that equation, you've been over-minging yourself. So listen carefully. I have made it very precise, clear and called for a certain declaration by the Croatian Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, why these three important documents should be brought to life. And what I was saying on the Committee on the Constitution is that it's one debate that you and I can have in one other way and in another.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51890	Thank you. Next replica, Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51891	Okay, let's let go of that '90 period now. '95. Or '97. We all know that there was just war back then, but why all those crimes from the communist period that you're looking for to become part of the constitutional norm were not sanctioned in the time between 2003 and 2011 when HDZ was in power on two occasions. I'm absolutely in favour, and people should be punished for committing a crime, but this is how it turns out that a communist-time crime is a special type of crime. I think it's just a crime. What you are proposing may enter the preamble of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, difficult in that normative part. But all HDZs before you perform about the way Mr. Perkovic has chosen the current authority, Mr. Perkovic, as head of SIZ, has appointed the current power. Mr. Perkovic's assistant, Gojko Šushko, also appointed the current authority at the helm with Milanovic. I thought Mr. Perkovic was behind Tudjman and Sušak. And we all know that SIZ was a central intelligence service at the time of the war and that it had this unlimited power. Who gave him that power and why? Maybe that's why Mr. Perkovic was so powerful because he knew everything about UDBA and HDZ, as well as other parties. Maybe Mr. Tudjman himself at that time didn't really want to do the lustration because he was aware of it all, so he pushed it all under the carpet or he wanted to put it all under one of those same flags. But that's also what I'm saying. The DORH didn't find a cause for prosecution three times, which I was talking about this morning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51892	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, pal Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51893	Thank you. My friend Cain, you're a little contradictory. You say once that now in the end that the DORH on three occasions rejected criminal charges, and then just before, a minute before you imputate the HDZ why he didn't prosecute those crimes. And then you say after a minute that the DORH is, but that he dropped the criminal charges. First of all,...the government is not processing, you know very well, neither the political parties nor the government nor the Parliament, processes, initiates, criminal proceedings are initiated by the state's attorney. So then you sent the wrong address, to the address of the political authority, than you should have directed that address towards the DORH, but then you got into another trouble... Then you get into another trouble because you say the DORH rejected those criminal charges, and at the same time you resent him for not processing them. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Make up your mind which one of these variants you'll be. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51894	Thank you. My colleague Cain, please. On behalf of the promoter, the word was requested by Peja Grbin. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51895	Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's my colleague Shakespeare, and I've been listening to what you've been saying through small screens, and since I couldn't believe my ears to hear it from your mouth, I've looked at the phonogram and in that phonogram I've read that you suggested that criminal proceedings be initiated in the Member States of the European Union have a championship in relation to a procedure that could be initiated before the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia. I will repeat once again, you have proposed that criminal proceedings be initiated in the Member States of the European Union have a championship in relation to a procedure which could be initiated before the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Constitution of the Republic of Croatia says: "The sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia is inalienable, indivisible and intolerable." This proposal to violate the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia has not yet been heard by this Homeland War. This is the first time in history, that is, since 8 October 1991, when we decided to become an independent and sovereign state, to condition our bodies' behaviour in the actions of another state. As early as the 16th century, when the scientific theory first defined the meanings of sovereignty, sovereignty was said to represent the absolute authority of taking action on its territory. A power that cannot be restricted to other authorities. In this case, you suggest that criminal proceedings in any Member State of the European Union on any subject be an absolute obstacle to the conduct of criminal proceedings in the Republic of Croatia. Are you aware of that? This means that, for example, the Republic of Croatia would have to start tomorrow, excuse me for stopping the proceedings against the director of a foreign company that is being charged with bribery to a Croatian politician. Is that the reason? Do you want such criminal proceedings to be suspended? I don't know, but it comes from your exposure. This kind of attack on Croatian sovereignty has not been experienced by this home and so I don't think I'll surprise anyone when I say that this SDP proposal is unacceptable. Now I've read your second proposal, and he says you're looking for a conviction of the murders committed by the communist regime in Yugoslavia. Why is this provision not acceptable to us? Not because we don't want to condemn the murders and other crimes committed by the communist regime. We'll do it. So that there is no confusion, and I will now condemn here all the crimes committed during and on behalf of the communist regime, with the detestation of judgment, and I will fence myself against all of them. I am ashamed that these crimes were committed sometimes on my behalf, on behalf of my parents, my grandparents. And no one in their right mind can accept the splendor of such crimes. But no, we will not condemn them in this way. And do you know why? Because we want to condemn all the crimes and all the criminals, no matter what badge they wear on their hats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51896	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Vladimir Seks first picked up the phone. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51897	Thank you very much. It is very interesting that you, my colleague, are imputing to me that no one in this House has ever committed such an attack on the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia as I have. And you honor me that you did not believe your eyes when you saw a stenogram and a phonogram from the debate. I guess that's the way it is. But then there's some mistake in seeing you. Because if you had carefully read what I said, then you would have seen that I am in favour when, when the procedure and the mechanism of applying the European arrest warrant is in line with the laws on the cooperation of the Republic of Croatia with the EU Member States regarding the European arrest warrant is already in place, if the mechanism is already in place and if the application of the European arrest warrant has been requested against the Croatian citizen in accordance with the laws on the co-operation of the Republic of Croatia with the EU member states, then, in Germany, it should not happen that, by changing the Constitution or the law or any other way, the European arrest warrant has been issued and that the change of the Constitution is said only now that the country has been requested, when the European arrest warrant has already arrived in Zagreb, we will not act, but we are now initiate the procedure. This would mean that EU member states would say so, and Croatia has done wonderfully. He's going to play the European Arrest Warrant again. It's no attack on sovereignty, but you misread the content of my debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51898	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51899	Thank you. So here is why there would be no wrong interpretation I will read a full sentence that you have stated, and the sentence reads, "Or so that the criminal proceedings in the EU member states have a championship in relation to a procedure that could be initiated before the judicial authorities of the Republic of Croatia." I really don't know if this is one very clear statement that needs some extra interpretation. I respect you, and I've always listened to you with attention so far, and I was curious to hear what you're about to say. But what you said today, well, it's mild to say that you've gone too far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51900	Thank you. Please, no comment! My colleague Shakespeare had the opportunity to respond and replicate. Please, colleagues, let's let us work normally. Next replica Gordan Jandrokovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51901	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Seks, I think, explained everything and such a malicious approach, it's certainly clear what Mr. Seks said because he's been here in the Croatian Parliament for a long time, he wrote the Constitution, and one is quite certain from the people who have marked these 23 years of the Croatian state. So a man who came a little less than two years ago to the Parliament could still have a little more respect when it comes to at least professional things to talk about fellow Shakespeare. But what worries me about you is that you do not understand the philosophy and logic of the European arrest warrant. That's what we told you when you got into trouble with Lex Perkovic that you don't really understand how the EU works. The European arrest warrant is one of the largest gains, the EU's fluids in judicial co-operation. Criminals are tried where they committed the crime. So, the Member States trust each other, trust the judiciary, the courts of the countries but obviously you don't believe it or you don't want to play it or you don't understand it because you are calling for something that could have been said before we became a full member of the EU and before we changed our Constitution so that we could become a full member of the EU. So this is about a great gain of a European that shows trust and understanding between states and you are challenging it today in one way that I think is inappropriate, but that is less important. It is disputed to me that from your presentation, when we clear all this malice and tendence, you do not really understand what the European arrest warrant is, which is its purpose and what is its value.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51902	Thank you. We have a colleague's response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51903	Thank you. So as I apologized to my colleague Marasovic, as I apologized to my colleague Marasovic if I directly offended him, I apologized to you. But I emphasized that I respect my colleague Shex and that just because I'm an older, experienced colleague, I'm even more surprised that these statements come from him. And as far as the European arrest warrant is concerned, just in the Council Framework Decision as one of the reasons for not delivering is the conduct of proceedings in the country of origin. So, the European arrest warrant says if a court case is conducted in the country of origin, then a citizen, or not just a citizen, will not be extradited by a citizen of another Member State. In this way, if we are to read this provision of the Council Framework Decision, this proposal is contrary to what is the content of the European arrest warrant. However, the European arrest warrant says that the obstacle to extradition is not only the conduct of proceedings in the country of origin but also in any Member State. For example, if the UK asks Croatia to hand someone over, and Croatia finds that the person is being treated in Hungary and then cannot hand him over to the UK with automation but must carry out the procedure. But forgive me, I really don't understand the European arrest warrant and I don't understand why Europe has already prescribed in it that the country's judiciary has an advantage over the one in which extradition is sought and why when I ask it to be in Croatia, you say I don't understand the European arrest warrant. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51904	Thank you, too. Next replica, Damir Cain. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51905	What a surprise, Mr. coat of arms. It's all in play. Not Mr. Shex, but HDZ is on the trail of that folk, condemning the phenomenon and saving another. Is this about the INA case? I don't know that, but I do know that apostrophe is only a communist crime, and they need to be judged by those who committed crimes in the name of that ideology in order to protect those who committed crimes in the name of some other or third ideology. And I think, I'll repeat, a crime is a crime and a crime must not have a name, it must not bear a name and a name. How do I put it? Right, judge in Croatia, if not in a third country. If we are a sovereign state, a country, if sovereignty is indivisible, if the institutions are independent then in the spirit of this very European arrest warrant we should act as the proposer did and suggested in this legislative initiative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51906	Thank you. And the last replica, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51907	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. A colleague of your coat of arms is just proof of what I've told you twice this morning in replicas, and that's that you're one case and you're ready to change the Constitution. You would only change the Constitution for one case, for which, for your known reasons, you do not want to be prosecuted. Because if that were not the case, we would not be changing the Constitution in a quick procedure, and we would assume this amendment to the Constitution as an initiative to change the Constitution signed by 750 thousand Croatian citizens. Here in the proposal to amend the HDZ Club Constitution, it is precisely to show the credibility that this government has violated twice by amending the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters. Therefore, if you have no last thought, I do not see what would be the reason for the items for which the arrest warrant has already arrived in Croatia, we are now changing the Constitution to prevent the opening of the process in the Republic of Croatia from carrying out the arrest warrant. That's what this is about. And it's clear to you that only you are trying to explain in your own way what HDZ wants to do and to help the government. This proposal to amend the Constitution actually helps the Government to show credibility and that what she has signed and taken over and in agreement with Mrs Reding that we will stick to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51908	Thank you. Replication response, colleague of the coat of arms. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51909	Here's another sentence. It should normally be arranged to conduct a procedure in Croatia that would exclude the possibility of taking action in Croatia in case a person is already being treated in one of the EU member states. Well, I think that's very clear. It is very clear that this proposal that you have now made wants the Croatian judiciary, which I believe we all have at least a grain of confidence that the Croatian judiciary should have the possibility that the persons it considers to have committed crimes in Croatia should be sanctioned. Not only in Croatia, but also those who committed crimes against Croatian citizens abroad or if a Croatian citizen finds himself in the Republic of Croatia, and abroad, he commits a crime to be sanctioned by the Croatian judiciary. So I don't understand why you're so afraid of Croatian courts and Croatian justice? It is not clear to me whether the Croatian judiciary has offended you personally? Does HDZ have a particular reason to be so afraid of our State's Attorney's office and our courts? I really don't get it. And for the end, this is not the procedure that went overnight. In the 7th month, a proposal was submitted. We discussed it then, we discussed it at the 9th month, there was a public debate all summer. So if three months represent you overnight I really don't know what more to add. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51910	Thank you, too. For his word, Minister Orsat Milenic reported on behalf of the government. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51911	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, just a brief review of the fact that this is a concrete proposal that I'm going to reserve here a detailed opinion of the government, means when we get it papered because this is just as it was made, but only a few remarks. So first, as you saw in the proposal, or in the opinion given by the Government, we predict that persecution for all crimes of serious murder can be taken even after the act of limitations. So that means all of it, and all of it means any regime, political, non-political, etc. Therefore, the first proposal is completely excessive because it is covered by the proposed amendment of the Constitution. So, if it can be applied to all serious crimes, it involves the crimes of everyone. Anything that's a hard murder. As far as this other guy is concerned, I don't really know that throws maybe one I'd dare say a weird situation. We have had constant calls to return to the 2010 Law on judicial cooperation and respect for the European arrest warrant. The possibility and rule of dealing with these orders and dealings with those on board, which the body does not have. It's aquis, it's really aquis. This would be the opposite and a violation of that because some rules would be established that no country in Europe has. I don't know why we would be the only country to deny its judiciary the right to judge someone when it's placed in a framework decision, when all 28 countries include us, when it's been put into practice in our 2010 law that you called on us to return it in the same form as it was, so it's been that provision since 2010, and there's never been a problem. And now I don't get it, so it'd be a way out of the system if we decided on this option, especially now to still edit it by constitutional law, I mean it's extra, but I'm not going to get into it. So we'll be obvious in detail when we get this initiative written, but I say as far as the first one is concerned, because we want a ban or the possibility of retroactive prosecution, regardless of the age for all the serious murders, so that means anyone committing them. So one thing, the government's position, it doesn't matter who did what he did, is what he did. If someone killed someone, they'd have to go to jail anyway why would they make a difference. It's a hard murder, so it's completely unnecessary. And I'm saying this to the other one, it's falling out of the system. I am here as the minister of justice of this country can never agree that we ourselves should rule out the possibility for our courts to act which all European countries have that we do not actually implement one European decision in the way that everyone else does, I think it is totally unacceptable. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51912	Thank you, too. We have a few replicas. Vladimir Seks first picked up the phone. Here you go, fellow Shakespeare.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51913	Thank you very much. My dear Minister, I have said that I suggest that the statutes for the crimes committed by the totalitarian communist regime be abolished, the murders. And I agreed with this proposal to abolish the statute of limitations for the crimes of serious murder. Therefore, my proposal is not excessive because it should end the statute of limitations for all crimes not only of grave murder, but of all the crimes committed by the communist regime, all the crimes of murder, and not just the crimes of serious murders. Secondly, what you're saying is that I'm going with this constitutional law proposal that I intend to give up the right and sovereignty of Croatian courts to conduct proceedings. No, it's wrong. I am talking about the fact that when a criminal procedure has already been initiated by the judicial authorities of the EU member states for a criminal offence committed in that foreign EU Member State, when a European arrest warrant has already been issued, that it cannot happen at that time that Croatia simply eskiates, ignores the already committed criminal offence, for example in Germany, to request the issue of a European arrest warrant and that Croatia says at once, and no, we will now launch this procedure and thus we will play the whole European arrest warrant.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51914	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51915	Thank you very much. So as for the first, of course we can talk about it, I also kept the possibility of a detailed answer when we get it written, but it's impossible to imagine a simple murder like you say that could qualify as being committed in the name of a regime. When you look at the qualification of a serious murder as soon as you have that political element, it's a hard murder, it can't be just a murder. So for that reason, it's particularly excessive to put because you can't have a murder committed on behalf of a regime without it being a hard murder. So, like I said under the idea of a serious murder, it's absolutely covered. We can discuss it, we'll write and we'll answer and we'll see, but if you think about it, you'll see that you can't get out so there can't be a murder on behalf of a regime without it being a hard murder because it's from low initiatives. Look at the definition of murder. So the usual murder it can't be because it's too much covered by this proposal of ours. As far as what you're saying is a European arrest warrant, let's read a framework decision. You have Article 4(2) which explicitly prescribes such situations. Although I don't see why Croatia as the only country in Europe would carry out something with constitutional laws and I don't know how it's done now, so why not act like all other countries. So you have paragraph 2. Therefore, the judicial authority may refuse to execute the European arrest warrant in paragraph 2 if the person subject to a European arrest warrant is subject to criminal proceedings in the Member State of enforcement, so in this country for the same criminal offence which has caused the European arrest warrant to be issued, and this is in your framework decision. And now we say we're going to be the only country in Europe that's going to say not what everyone else is doing and what it says in the framework decision we're going to take that away, let's now invent some new rule that our courts can never apply it to. I mean, I don't see why I say this here as the Minister of this country I can't agree to.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51916	Thank you. Next replica Gordan Jandrokovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51917	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, I'm going to continue where the minister stopped because I think we're very close now to clarify what this is all about. In the framework decision, I quote what you said is "if criminal proceedings are conducted". No one's questioning it, but this whole operation we've accused you of doing for one man is intended to change the Constitution and, based on that, begin proceedings against the one suspected of committing this crime. So if the procedure had already been conducted in Croatia and if Germany had started it now after Croatia had already led it then it would have been nothing to dispute. But since Germany's procedure leads to us changing the Constitution so that we can initiate this procedure here and then challenge Germany's right to extradition here because we're running the procedure here. I mean, it's all very clear. I don't know if he's conscious or unconscious, but he reveals the cards. He speaks and accuses HDZ of not trusting the Croatian judiciary. Why are we against trial in Croatia? Well, because our obligation is according to what we have signed, which is the purpose of a European arrest warrant to leave the trial, I will not name one person who is in Germany suspected of a crime committed in Germany. So, I don't see what's going on here. If the procedure is conducted in Germany and does not lead to Croatia is our idea, let's let Germany conduct this procedure. Why should we now enter the Constitution by changing what Germany is doing now? So that's where we see your bad intentions, that's where we see those hidden intentions of yours but about which Mr. Grbin speaks very openly. That's what my colleague, Vice President Stazic, was doing. So some of you are saying that you want to disable the extradition of that Mr. Germany and that it is the legitimate right of every country. You're saying something else, you're saying it doesn't matter. So the coat of arms says it has to do with this change of constitution with extradition, you're saying it doesn't, you deal with each other.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51918	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51919	Thank you very much. So, when we are, we've been talking about this subject for a long time, and unfortunately we're going back to the same thing all the time. So, for starters and for the end, no law and even less change of the Constitution is being made towards a person. It is inappropriate and inadmissible for us to point out here constantly one object that will be found before the judicial authorities tomorrow. If that's what you want, pressure on the court, you can't do that. You can't do that. So, I'm also telling you that in all the cases that come before our judicial authorities, the law that is in line with the acquis will be acted upon. And that nothing should be added or taken away. The issue of limitations is completely separate from that. Because we could, let's talk hypothetically now, we could have had an unagesomeness before or we could have an age of 60 that would come or wouldn't perform in any case. It's our internal thing. But we have a framework decision, we've spent a lot of time on whether it's harmonised, not, what we need to do, going back to what, not coming back, etc. This is a provision that was in law and we didn't touch it. So, you brought it in. And she's standing there writing what's going to happen both in this case and the like. I'm not talking about any concrete cause I will never talk about concrete but in any such case where a European arrest warrant is issued and there is a procedure in the executing country that writes how it is handled and whoever decides it, we don't, the court decides. And that's all. So, I'm saying, let's not get into the specifics, I don't see any reason why we, with the Constitution or anything that we touch in one order that's set up, which is normal, which is prescribed here and that's where it ends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51920	Thank you, too. And the last replica of Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51921	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, you may wonder why I, most of the parliamentary majority, are replicating you. You say that because you, as an honest and just man, are still wondering how someone through the acquis is asking for something to be taken away from the judiciary and given to the judiciary of foreign countries, countries in the European Union where we are alone. Allow Mr. Minister to let me know them a little less. And you know why they do that? If the judiciary, the local judiciary isn't under my boot, then let them not judge us, then judge us all. That's what they'd do. So they act as if they are not HDZ representatives in the Croatian Parliament, but as representatives in the Bundestag. And please, here you see, now they say this is our operation, literally these are the words of colleagues Jandrokovic. So these changes, and our law, they call it an operation. And what are they responding to with this operation? I repeat, with the intention of amputating the Croatian judiciary. This is shameless and this has never happened in this Croatian Parliament such an attack on the domestic judiciary, on the pillar of our sovereignty and government. And from one of the great patriots.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51922	Thank you. We have a breach of the Rules of Procedure, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51923	Well, Mr. Vice-President of the Parliament was injured in Article 238, where a representative with her behaviour deviates from the general rules of conduct in the Assembly and I think she should be warned because she's saying something that isn't said or she could understand it if she's a thinking being and I think she is. Because my colleague Seks has repeatedly explained exactly what his intention is and what he intends to do to represent HDZ. So, here he deliberately silences, manipulates, avoids understanding what he is and falsely accuses HDZ even HDZ deputies of saying to me as she said, I don't know as if we're representatives in Bundestag, some other state. So I find it incorrect and deviating from the usual conduct in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51924	Thank you. I find there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. This is a political speaker, my colleague. If you find my interpretation unsatisfactory, follow the Rules of Procedure. You won't answer the Minister's reply? Okay, thanks. [[I won't.]] We continue the debate on behalf of the HDSSB Club Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51925	Thank you, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament, ministers, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here we were patient and long, arguing and waiting all morning. And what I would say for starters let no one be offended I will have to return in one part of my debate to the past, but I will try quickly to stick to the future and destiny above all to the European Croatia, Croatia that needs to be part of its laws and its Constitution as part of the European legal space. And that we are a full member of the European Union who has become one of the most difficult ways we have come. The constitution is not some reading that should be read daily as a daily newspaper, as a comic book, as a reading for care but a fundamental, strongest and highest legal, political legal document of the state in this case of our country of the Republic of Croatia. And the constitution doesn't change overnight, for the quickest time for any policy, for any government and government but for Croatia, for the future of Croatia and for the well-being of our citizens who today live very hard in Croatia because we didn't get out of the economic crisis. And it is difficult to wait for something to be said about constitutional changes if an hour of debate is being held about partisans, refugees, Ustashas, Chetniks, past and bone digging, which is already hand-to-heart here in this assembly at the Croatian Parliament High House has been spoken of for three months, because every topic since the first day of Croatia's entry into the European Union has returned us instead of to the future in the past. Our first day of our membership in the European Union we witnessed a conflict so-called conflict. This is behind us with the European Commission on the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union. We've said a lot about it, and there's not much to be said about it, but it's said. It is true, and everyone should acknowledge that these constitutional changes have arisen as a problem that has gone through so-called. Lex Perkovic, through a law that has been discussed for three months and through some solutions and arrangements that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has reached with the European Commission and we, when we discussed it, said that we firmly believe that this agreement is firm and that the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the ruling majority in the Croatian Parliament, knows what it is doing. And we do not know what would be the argument of any club of MPs that on such a proposal of constitutional change, about the formulation that no crime, any qualification of murder that is qualified under our legislation as a difficult murder would become obsolete, which would... reason legal, political or any other reason that would lead us to this question that we doubt that this should or should be prosecuted primarily by the Croatian judiciary, and then the judiciary of the countries of the European Union, the international judiciary. Any suspicion of stability, the legitimacy of the state casts doubt on both the government and all those who exercise power. We will in this first tend to stick to this proposal, given the problem we had with the European Commission, you know what you are doing. In principle, we spoke as a club at the beginning when you said that the problem was solved in terms of cooperation in criminal matters with the Member States of the European Union believed that you had solved it, but also the incursion in the Constitution in the way it started, counting that the hands of representatives and club representatives were just a figure, that a number of 101 or 106 should be realized and that the Constitution would change because it is take it or leave it. As a club of representatives, we then invited the President of the Croatian Government, Mr. Zoran Milanovic, before anything comes to the Croatian Parliament, and as regards constitutional changes, the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia needs one reasonable, political consensus, conversation and dialogue to try in the Croatian Constitution because we are in a time that is different from 23 years ago, a time when Croatia is in many things and in this legal and judicial part of the advances. If that were not the case, we would not have become a full member of the European Union. One of the most difficult chapters for the conclusion of the negotiations was Chapter 23. Human rights and justice, and there's a lot we've done as a state, not diminishing the merits or values of any government. Today, when discussing constitutional changes, first of all, this is a question of whether or not to move into the constitutional process, it is necessary to listen to the views of all the representatives' clubs, and first of all, this way from this pay phone and welcome what Prime Minister Milanovic did yesterday, and this is the first conversation with our party's president, Mr. Vladimir Šišljagic, regarding the HDSSB's proposals concerning constitutional changes. Since the media interpreted different positions of the HDZ over constitutional changes would not have misunderstood, there is no trade, there is no blackmail on anyone on the question whether the Croatian Constitution should have a category of heavy killings as the most difficult crime do not become obsolete, but it is necessary to recognize and open other issues that are also important because we are responsible and because we need to think that the Constitution is as a firm document and it should remain firm and stable. Only a stable and firm constitution guarantees legal certainty and stability of the state. Since the Constitution does not change every year and does not need to be changed, it can possibly change in the term of one government once or not at all if the solutions are good and good and if they serve as a service to the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia, we have had opinions and we still hold that in some issues that should be an integral part of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia right now should open a debate and a topic and a political platform that can very much change and have a constructive political debate. To change the constitution requires a 2/3 majority of representatives of the Croatian Parliament. The HDSB Club in this case and in this intention of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to change the Constitution does not want to be a number but wants to be a constructive partner about the talks and adoption of those proposals that our party and the programme of our party and our views need about us, and I hope in a quality debate that should be reasonable and which should have its beginning and end, and not just the beating of the empty straw that will bring us back to the past. For the future of Croatia, the HDSSB considers it now to be time for the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia in Article 134 to address issues of local, regional, regional self-government to raise the issue of Croatia's division into regions. As a party, we have proposed that Croatia not be divided borderally, cut borders and change but to establish what it means to regionalise Croatia, which at the moment means a large number of counties in the Republic of Croatia and whether they have achieved their real purpose, primarily economic and financial, but also tax and income and each other for people living in the area of a particular county, whether their network of municipalities and cities in the Republic of Croatia is rational, whether this system as such works or not, whether it is a burden for the state budget, and it has proved itself to be. Is this the system of the county of Croatia necessary because we are in different times and conditions in which we live today, in which we lived when the counties as such, as historical units were founded and established in the Republic of Croatia. Does this issue divide into five regions that we have proposed as a party, which does not mean that it does not raise the question that this can be different, without insulting any part of the Republic of Croatia's rights or historical or economical or geopolitical or political, that everyone should have their own view on it. But the most important question is what do the citizens of the Republic of Croatia think? In some surveys that TV, media these days were conducting by questioning citizens what they think about the current territorial structure of the Republic of Croatia, we heard very simply, that such a system is burdensome and that it is not functional or necessary for the Republic of Croatia at the moment. Because the basic point of all of this is that the ordinary citizen of the Republic of Croatia is benefiting from such a territorial structure. It showed up in some units nothing. It has been shown that due to the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds that these are also the findings of auditors, European auditors in terms of withdrawing funds from the Republic of Croatia from the European funds, it has been shown that the larger totals, the city of Zagreb and the environment, nevertheless by this means of division and division, are being withdrawn more funds and that the burden is again on those regions that are less developed under quotes compared to the capital of the Republic of Croatia. What this regional division into five regions or more depending on the debate means for Croatia is primarily to open a dialogue, put all the cards on the table, which are revenues, to make the system work, which means collecting taxes. Is it possible for 30% of tax revenues to remain in the area of these regions? Which means economic prosperity, investment, the withdrawal of funds from the EU funds. That's one reasonable story that the HDSSB didn't just run. The HDSSB is 8 years old, but the government said in its 21st plan, that Croatia would set up differently regionally. And that's why it's not stupid that we're now saying that in this part of constitutional change we need to talk about, because we don't want to talk about just the past, whether there's a crime to be punished or not, which is a qualification of murder and who will be punished or not because in that part we think it's a matter of Croatian justice and that every crime, regardless of who committed it, should not be left unpunished. But we believe that if this solution is accepted and constructively discussed that this is Croatia's future, that our citizens, people who live hard today, will live better and that the environments that will be gathered in the regions will withdraw more funds from EU funds, will work better financially and that this is Croatia's future. Europe's region, division of the EU and EU member states to regions is not something new. It already exists, it works, and we don't need to be too wise. We can learn from those who successfully formed this system, where it works successfully and where people and the economy and privates and the public sector benefit from it, that it is not stupid. Now it's time to talk about it. As a party, we do not want to appear in the Parliament with a proposal that what we say is not subject to change and change. Yes, I do not want to offend Istria or Dubrovnik or any part of Croatia if we are thinking that territorially, therefore regionally it is necessary to organise the Republic of Croatia differently. This should be a common future, because from the future citizens and all of us together and our children and our family and European Croatia can live better. In fact, we believe that if there are no responses to the proposals we made, and we believe that yesterday the Prime Minister took it seriously, and that's what I said was good. Because as a party, we invited him to dialogue and consensus, that there would be problems that will be discussed now and the future. From what we've been saying today, no one's gonna live better. In the second part of what we have proposed, we have discussed when it comes to statutes of limitations and criminal offences that have violated the economic stability and financial position of the Republic of Croatia, which are eventually committed by senior state officials and other officials, which would be regulated by a special law. This is the addition of Article 31(4), which is proposed by the Government to be governed by a specific law on this qualification, namely the heavy killings committed by both the proposal first and the second. We feel that this crime should be added. We are witnessing that one of the top state officials is not alluding to the ruling of the Croatian court, on any proven guiltyness, to the actions committed, we consider that in these 6 indictments a major damage has been done to economic stability and financial and the position of the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. It's a shame no one can make up for. And we believe that no government, no official who behaves, who acts in power today or in the future should be afraid of it. So everyone should be responsible in that part and with the means available to make a mistake and be responsible, conscientiously, honestly, and honestly doing their job. We propose that, therefore, criminal acts that have put the country's economic and financial stability at risk to include both the Prime Minister and the President of the State and the President of the Parliament and the Minister and Governor of the Croatian National Bank. We have also witnessed that in the past, some banks were privatised and that the ruling structures did not know or should have known, but that many millions came out of Croatia and that the country's economic and financial stability was threatened. These are the things to talk about and the future of the Republic of Croatia depends very much on. If we deafen ourselves to such questions and if these are topics that are irrelevant and which are not to be discussed, then we do not know what is important. Anyone who has listened to a reasonable debate in the Croatian Parliament today about the launch of constitutional changes, when anyone would ask not us who are sitting here today and who are representatives of the Croatian Parliament and who we can talk about some things in our own way, express our views sometimes like this, all depends on what policy supports and worldview. But we must be aware that we have made a big mistake if we have returned to the past at all times, if at all times we have doubted the stability and righteousness of Croatia as a country, a country that has hardly been created since the Homeland War, from the European Croatia today and from all those issues that are sometimes being represented and because of the public's attitude about our work in the Parliament, unfortunately we must be ashamed. This House is the most representative body of Croatia and now is an opportunity to discuss the Constitution, constitutional changes to open those issues that will also be issues of Croatia's European future, the future of our children and those who should live in this country. And there are many other problems and many other laws and many other things that we will have to deal with urgently, and this should be a question that is political and legal should have agreement, a common agreement on all important issues and not issues that will bring us back to the past. If we have to choose from the past, we will still choose the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51926	Thank you, too. We have several replicas, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51927	Thank you. You, a colleague of Salapic, have honestly and graciously noticed that no one should really mind that serious murders do not have a statute of limitations. You have also well noticed that it would be good if we were as a society more turned to the future, and less constantly the past, to keep going back to our ideological confrontations. But perhaps we could ask the relevant question would we move faster into that future if, say, these constitutional changes were not at all? So, do these constitutional changes, is there even a need in this society for these constitutional changes? Maybe we should ask ourselves that. So then there wouldn't be any of this debate, there wouldn't be any ideological confrontation, there wouldn't be any of these topics, the topics we all open, and maybe we'd be at one of the next points of the agenda that concerns our present. And maybe all of us would actually live easier together, so maybe it would be the hottest for Croatia to government, because these constitutional changes are actually being added to a series of spins that have been going on for several months, since the 7th month of this year. And of course, then, the spins that are created by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice who are currently missing. And, of course, after a few months of these spins and acrobautics that it is more difficult to believe in the kindness that right now, the constitutional changes are coming right now, and that suddenly we are interested in the non-depreciation of the difficult killings and beyond the context of the EU confrontation that has taken place with this government in the past months. And it is interesting that the country that has handed over customs sovereignty, which is ready to surrender monetary sovereignty, which is ready to join the EU, surrenders part of territorial sovereignty by giving some of its territory suddenly has a problem with the sovereignty of its judiciary.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51928	Thank you. Answer, comrade Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51929	I told my colleague Djurovic at the beginning of the debate that part of the debate would be a return to the past and another part to the future. We have been pushed into this topic since the 7th month, by the Law of Judicial Cooperation. Constitutional changes are the result of exactly the problem that opened up at the time. Now let me not repeat what I said, our club and all together we found both political space and the need to discuss Croatia's future, which is regional division, issues that mean for the Republic of Croatia, issues of funding for local self-government units in this case if the proposal for a region is accepted. What this will mean for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia specifically, which means in the financial context of the tax system. What does the question of money from European funds mean? What about those planning divisions that happen and the findings of European auditors are not good for those who are less developed? This is a topic where we have already considered when the issue of constitutional change was raised that we should extend this story to the future of Croatia. This is the past, this is the digging of bones and it is something that should already be in the Croatian Constitution if it should be, and every crime as such should be punished. And we're stuck in the net that we need to have an argument who normal can be against this. Who normal can be against saying we're against any crime that qualify as a serious murder not being punished. Anyone normal doesn't sit here, doesn't deal with the law should say that every crime should be punished no matter where the time was committed and who committed it. It's a criminal, it's a murderer, it should be punished. We're dragged into a network of it take it or leave it. That's why we invited the Prime Minister to consult and to a consensus... and about some other topics, and we took that first step. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We should all do this if we want good to Croatia. Things will be much clearer and simpler and tomorrow should go into what really bothers Croatian citizens because I say today at the end of the day when the line is drawn, which is the conclusion? People will say nothing they didn't do and they didn't say anything, they were dealing with the past, digging into the bones. Well, that's sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51930	Thank you. Next replica, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51931	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, my colleague Salapic, and now he's doing it again, we haven't done anything, we're digging in the past, we're digging in costumes, we're beating up empty straw, etc. It's a logical paradox because these changes simply require that the deadlines be extended by 40 years, or to be removed. Therefore, the subject itself has been imposed on the past, and we did not impose it, but they imposed it, it was imposed with these proposals. On the other hand, it is not about ideological debate but about the value settings on which the legal system will be built and the Constitution will be built up or not of the Republic of Croatia and how the rule of law, in which the rule of law will form. What we've heard here today is that there is no willingness on people of totalitarian regimes including the communist regime. Because we heard here today that communist values are much better, that much better lived in communism, that it would be much better if... the initiative had passed rather than Croatia's independence, etc. So what's obvious here from these discussions is that there is no willingness to condemn this totalitarian regime. Therefore, there is no willingness to condemn itself, to give satisfaction to all victims of that regime system, and that is a key problem. And if it wanted to get rid of this easily, I'm not a lawyer, but I don't see why it didn't go into the Penal Code and change that there's no limit to 40 years, so we'd probably settle this whole amendment to the Constitution in a much shorter procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51932	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51933	Dear Representative Tudjman, however, we must admit that this morning's debate is going in the wrong direction as usual. We talked about the same thing for three months, and when it came to issues that shouldn't have been mentioned in the past, partisan crimes, Uzbeks, Chetnics, Ustashas, some colleagues gave each other a break, and some discussions lasted an hour and a half about one and the same. We as a party and a club are certainly for condemning totalist crimes, communist crimes and everyone else but I said that for three months we have been involved in the debate and the topic where simply one who wants good for Croatia and who is for condemning every crime, and in this case communist but also one who starts in other times, there should be some justification for why someone against it should be against it. That we're insinuated in such a single network that's been created for three months, and there are much bigger and stronger problems that are also true. But there's a conclusion that needs to be drawn from this. What is Croatia doing and where is this Croatia going? It means that the concrete conclusion of everything that we are today is for or against such a constitutional change that a serious murder as a crime doesn't go out of date. That there was a mechanism to intervene in criminal law, and it had to be done before it was considered. But what happened was that the day-to-day political problem, which is the problem that arose with the European Commission, became a key national problem because the President of our Government at that point acted as if it really wasn't, and we were involved in a network of relations with the European Commission. Obviously, the deal reached with Mrs. Reding has obviously been withdrawn every little bit, the prime minister has been given the space to propose what he proposes and we as a Parliament have been dragged into the debate to get back into the past. That's why we said as a club that we are primarily for this because we have no reason to be against but we ask that we talk about Croatia's future, and that's what people will live better than, and that's still a question of regionalisation, decentralisation and withdrawal of funds from European funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51934	Next replica of Jadranka Kosor. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51935	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. As with many times as you have so far, you are entitled to your presentations by reminding yourself of the past not so long ago, and these were negotiations and the conclusion of Croatia's EU entry negotiations and the most difficult of all chapters, chapters and jobs related to the judiciary, so Chapter 23, but also Chapter 24 relating to fundamental rights but above all to the judiciary. And we should remind ourselves that really, by carrying out reforms related to Chapter 23, we have done a lot of work. So our main task and requirement was to end the independence of the Croatian judiciary and to do everything possible to both the State Attorney's Office and the USKOK but also the State Judiciary Council, which you were also a member of for a time were fully independent institutions, so those who choose state lawyers, those who choose judges to be completely independent. So when we finally closed Chapter 23, and it contained a great burden and trials for war crimes and trial in Croatia, the ability of Croatian courts to, and in this sense, judge, when we closed that chapter at last then it was a sign that came from the European Commission, from the EU, that we had done a job to close this chapter and that the Croatian judiciary in this sense was really capable, independently as in any other sovereign EU member state. And it's good today because this is a much broader context than the proposal to amend the Constitution to remind us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51936	Thank you. Dear Buric, please choose the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51937	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. I'd like to warn you of an injury to Article 121. Rules of Procedure, we don't have any government representatives right now. So neither the minister nor the deputy, and here we discuss each other. It states in Article 121 that they are obliged to discuss the draft law or other acts to be present here at this session, and in paragraph 3 if they are not to have the Parliament or the working body if they consider that the presence of a representative is necessary to interrupt or postpone the debate. So I'm asking you to do something about it. I'm not saying that it's either delayed or interrupted, but to invite representatives of the resolution ministry to attend the session or we're so bored but they have to be here. That's what the Rules of Procedure says.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51938	Time. Thank you very much. In fact, I find that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure because the Government is not a proposing, the proposing committee is. And also here I thought there was no need to apologize to the minister in a hurry to the board. I therefore find that there has been no breach of the Rules of Procedure because the Government is not a legislator. There's no damage to my colleague Buric's rules of procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51939	I really don't want to be complicated, but there's no representative of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51940	He has a proposing representative present in the assembly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51941	Mr. Vice President, I believe you realize that this still does not give rise to the seriousness of the debate. That's all I want to point out. It would be very correct if given the importance of not playing with words right now, the importance of the subject is unserious. There should be one of the representatives of the ministry here. It's not right for anyone, so let's respect our own Rules of Procedure for nothing else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51942	Comrade Buric here has no injuries to the Rules of Procedure again. On behalf of the promoter here is a colleague Jelusic, as I recall from a memo on who the promoter is. The government's presence is not necessary. He can't sit there. My friend Buric, that's one thing. And the second minister, I'm sure he'll study the full minutes from the session. We're moving on with the replicas. The last replica of Ante Sanader. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51943	Thank you, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51944	Excuse me, Comrade Sanader. I thought you'd answer everything. Here's your colleague Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51945	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Kosor, I think that we share similar views from the 7th month when the issue of the Law on Judicial Cooperation in Criminal Matters with EU member states began with similar thinking and attitudes for a full three months. That is why today it is precisely strange and somewhat unlikely that the expression and doubt that the judiciary of the Member States of the European Union is of any quality or advantage over the justice of the Republic of Croatia. This is what we are in some discussions really... a question of Croatia's legal sovereignty because it is not. I think that the constitutional changes in 2010 have just strengthened the role of the independence of the Croatian judiciary through the amendments to the Constitution around the State Judicial Council, around the State Lawyer's Council and the overall role of the Croatian judiciary in one time that has now come before us, which is Croatia's full membership in the European Union. There is also this very thing that tends daily political about such an important legal act that should be firm and stable, and because of the legal certainty of the Republic of Croatia, it is just that it is unnecessary. I believe, because this is taking too long today, sometimes it is said and more, and when you wait and listen to things sometimes a man is executed in that true intention, and the right intention should now be allowed to enter into the Constitution those proposals and those solutions that each responsible government will accept and from which Croatian citizens who expect and ask us to live better. And we expect the Prime Minister who spoke to us yesterday to brief us on his views in a few days and to really move constructively towards the changes of the Croatian Constitution and then there will be no problem in agreeing on important things together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51946	Thank you, too. And now, fellow Sanader, here's your replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51947	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Salapian, you've said a few things here that I want to replicate for you. You're talking about a bright future and it's perfectly normal. We all want a bright future, but it would be correct to make a quality analysis of the present time. I refer to the part you're talking about regionalization. You're here a little... smoothed out from our municipalities to the county without arguments on me. First you should have said what Plan 21 predicted that absolutely did not meet everything he planned. There was talk of decentralisation that you didn't mention here. You just said that such a system of municipalities did not justify its existence and is not necessary for Croatia. I think exactly the opposite, many municipalities justified their existence and gave such results that they could be proud of all of Croatia. Also, about the county. You have reached out to Croatian counties here and you are calling for regionalism to be a salvation, and I am interested in why you gave such a shower to Croatian counties because this government itself has made no analysis, but the committee which it established has only been evaluated in 2017 has been set up for a new regionalisation or debate on regionalisation. Croatian counties have made an analysis and it has clearly shown the situation but the key problem is decentralisation. I can't do Croatian counties with no money. And you also say that we will withdraw more funds from European funds if there is regionalisation. I think it's clear to you that with these county budgets, I can't prepare any projects, and the municipalities are very weak, and we have divisions in the NUC region but the state doesn't finance projects, it doesn't give funding to projects, and it doesn't allow regions or counties to realize their projects. So I think you're completely wrong about what you're saying because regionalisation won't save anything if the funds don't decentralize, and if the funds were decentralised with the counties at the time, and the municipalities would then withdraw the funds of European funds and have the financial capacity to prepare quality projects and compete with these projects. Surely with the strategy the state must make, which is not made in many areas... now regional as you certainly know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51948	Time. Thank you. Answer, comrade Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51949	Dear colleague, I don't know what you were listening to but I'm all you said I didn't just say, and in the last part of your replica you denied yourself when you said that the current structure of the county itself has a certain budget, there is no developmental, no funds for investment. When I spoke about the regionalisation of Croatia, I did not insist on going to this proposal of five regions, but rather the system of the current county as it works, I know that you are protecting and talking about the Split-Dalmatia County that you led, so you know how it works, but there are counties and landscapes that are unevenly developed in relation to other parts and these are facts. The HDZ government in the past when it tried to amend some laws, which was a system of networks of courts, the system of state-level lawyers' headquarters, was such a rebellion that nothing could be done. And that something was done in one part, but it was receded and withdrawn that the mayors, the mayors who came and the parties didn't object. And imagine the question of the existence of municipalities that have 2.5 million kuna budgets, which has 5 employees and which spends more than 50% of their resources on salaries. So, one who does not recognise that the system is territorial as it is today is not good is not speaking frankly, not demeaning the importance of the Split-Dalmatia County and Dalmatia as a whole. So I said, all of this in my debate, that the government in its Plan 21 announced regionalisation, the regional division of Croatia, did not execute it. That's what I said. And decentralisation, I said. ... I said that for sure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So these are questions if we were to sit at the table and we could talk constructively about it. So that the system does not work today as it is safe and that the counties as such should be abolished it is safe and should go into a different regional division of Croatia, the structure, it is also safe. And if we are to look at some European Union member states this system of Europe, the region exists, it is functioning and it is better financially sustainable than what exists today in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51950	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Jadranka Kosor and HGS Mrs Kosor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51951	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In principle, I agree with Mr Buric's remarks, even if one representative is here, but I think it is an extremely important moment, which is the launch of a procedure for amending the Constitution and it is logical that all those who are appointed as representatives of the motionary are in the Chamber. It is certainly good that there is a minister of justice here, even though he, in my interpretation of this opinion, came from the Government is not a government proposing but has given his opinion on the proposal of a certain group of MPs and at this point has to be considered exclusively as an opinion of the Government, not as some other or double proposal because it is always around all legislative proposals, about all the initiatives that come from the Croatian Parliament, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is giving its opinion. And I think maybe that's what we should have said at the very beginning in order to remove any doubt as to whether we were discussing one or two amendments to the Republic of Croatia's Constitution. Here we are waiting patiently for order, especially when it's been an hour, when you're listening to the replicas of a certain exposure. I think it would be good to agree in the future, that's my proposal, for the next amendments to the Rules of Procedure, to concentrate on at least on behalf of clubs, and then that the number of replicas can be increased as time goes by. But certainly, this moment of motion of change of the Constitution did not begin magnificently. I think that the amendment of the Constitution is always the moment around which all political forces are concentrated, but it is also the moment when all interested and not only professional but all other public are gathered. It didn't start out well because it didn't start out the way I think it would be good, and I'm going to pull back the parallel with the amendments to the Constitution in 2010 when we first tried to find out what could be the subject or should be the subject of an amendment to the Constitution that we had to change because of the continuation of Croatia's EU entry negotiations. Then, I remind you, consultations in the government began, so all representatives of all parliamentary political parties were invited, so also then the ruling coalitions but also the opposition at the time, and then we were trying to do what many are calling for, which I think is good, and that is to put all arguments on the table. I remind you that Mr. Milanovic and I also had some talks in four eyes, since he was the leader of the opposition at the time and that Mrs. Vesna Pusic, who was at the time at the head of the National Committee, was also very active in those talks. So, I mentioned this earlier, that at that time, in order to change the Constitution in order to continue negotiations and end them because we had to install many important provisions from the European arrest warrant to here further strengthening the independence of the CNB, the State Lawyer's Council, the Judicial Council, etc., but then some other proposals were found on the table, such as the vote of Croatian citizens living outside Croatia. So we also had to discuss it, conduct difficult talks and difficult negotiations, and it was actually the hardest part of these agreements on amending the Constitution. So I think it would be important if we had welcomed today in such a way that all the consultations were carried out. Therefore, if those consultations had been carried out previously, there would have been no way to get the impression, and there were such qualifications, that it was about any trading of anything. Each of us MPs in the Croatian Parliament can legitimately present their proposal, when it comes to every law and amendment of every law, and of course when it comes to amendments to the Constitution. In principle, there are a few things that I think there's a consensus about once again. And that is that we should agree that we are really changing the Constitution as little as possible, that this will be the final amendment to the Constitution for some next 10 years, that in no way touch the original bases because the original foundations were conceived by the creator or creators of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia at the time, and in the original ways, I think in every way well balanced what is actually the framework of the Constitution, and then the framework of the functioning of the Croatian state. Here's the fifth attempt to change the Constitution of boredom, so since the adoption of the '90s. Then '97. where the key change was a ban on any association in some Yugoslav associations in 2000, 2001. when we moved from half-presidential to the parliamentary system and then here's in 2010. I'll mention that we've touched our original bases in recent changes. This was in the sense that we taxed that the Republic of Croatia is a state of Croatian people and minorities, so we mentioned all minorities and counted and entered a victory in the Homeland War which we consensually agreed was good and important. But I hope that by the end of our term in the Croatian Parliament, it will not be necessary to encourage the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. As far as this proposal is concerned, therefore original, trial for the most serious crimes, or murder, the most serious killings, I think there is no obstacle to politics and the Croatian Parliament's policy is to open that space and to the possibility of trial for the most serious murders, to take down the burden of limitations. Why do I think so? Because here we have agreed in the last amendments to the Constitution, and this was a proposal on both sides and the Government's proposal and a proposal by the opposition then and the president of the state to introduce a provision on the non-deprecated crime and war profit. So when these two crimes, these two crimes, because war profit and all that is related to crime in conversion and privatisation on one side and the crime of serious murder from any initiative, in particular, from political, but any initiative, when you put on the scale then of course there is no comparison between the cost of life and any robbery. So the cost of living, the murder of taking a life is an invaluable hard crime compared to any. So if we've opened up this political space for removing the age of war profit and for certain crimes in conversion and privatisation, we're going to open that space and that's the suggestion that there's no statute of limitations or crimes of serious murder. However, another important issue has been raised here, which I will mention only along the way, and this is the question of the general commission in the Croatian judiciary, so also in the Croatian State's Attorney's Office and USKOK, and in judges can we also be prepared to judge in this regard for all these crimes? I think so. And here I will just repeat one sentence from Mr Salapic's previous replica, that we have proved this by completing the negotiations and meeting all the criteria for opening and closing chapters 23 and 24. So this dilemma shouldn't be there. As for the proposals we have heard so far, we absolutely support the proposals made by Mr Lesar in his speech on behalf of the club and all of those suggestions that I do not repeat them on a referendum but also crucially and on this trail here goes my proposal that all the doubts that are solely going into political space are purely political and have nothing to do with the judicial space around the proposal's intentions can be avoided by amending the Republic of Croatia's Constitution on the same day that the law on judicial co-operation with EU member states enters into force and amends the law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters. So in an elegant way, we solve all these open questions that will come back over and over again, which will always burden us over and over again. On the other hand, there have been a lot of speeches on the citizens' initiative regarding the referendum on amendments to the Constitution. Although I am personally speaking only in person, I do not agree that there is any need for the definition of marriage to be introduced into the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, so that in the Constitution we say that it is a community of men and women because we have this in the Family Law and the need for it in my opinion there is absolutely nothing, but the reality is such that a sufficient number of signatures has been collected and that in this initiative, the Croatian Parliament must answer this question through this amendment. Any other delay would be counterproductive, very harmful and would certainly open the space for important and difficult issues about the functioning of Parliament and the rule of law, which is something that I don't think either of us can support. So the Parliament must answer that question, if necessary, if the assessment of the Constitution Committee can be taken another step means sending it to the Constitutional Court to see if this issue is in accordance with the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, then the second day should do what needs to be done according to the law and according to the Constitution and there is no doubt. And finally our club will propose and it is not a matter of trade, it is a very simple issue which is neither political nor political but is a matter of the functioning of ourselves, so we will suggest that what is set out in the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on that the Parliament does not work from 15 July to 15 September at least, and then from 15 December to 15 January then it is a constitutional provision that at that time the Parliament cannot and must not work we will propose to shorten that break so for at least a month. That's the same thing we're offering to put on the table and get all of that and all the suggestions that were put forward to discuss that the motioner would argue to invite all those who have something to say, all at last who have said something here in this debate and then go to the next step of the change of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51952	Thank you, too. We've had several replicas, but we have a breach of the Rules of Procedure. He announced his colleague Dinko Buric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51953	Exactly, Mr. Vice President. This time probably not your fault, because at the time, I don't think you're the one who presided, but the Rules of Procedure is still injured when the government's representatives are present. I quoted article 121 that talked about them being here, you said they weren't proposing. And then the president made a mistake if the screen said nicely that on behalf of the promoter 30 minutes spoke Mr. Orsat Milenic forgive me for writing on behalf of the promoter. Every time Mr. Minister answered, he wrote on the screen on behalf of the promoter and for 5 minutes on behalf of the promoter and 15 minutes on behalf of the promoter and 30 every time he. Then it was a mistake by hurting the Rules of Procedure chairman of the Parliament's session. It is therefore an injury to the Rules of Procedure, which is an article 233 which speaks of the applicant, the Government representative, that is, paragraph 3 when the applicant is not able to speak at the beginning of the debate for a maximum period of 15 minutes, and on the occasion of any explanation given during the debate when he is given a word for a maximum of 5 minutes. And when Mr. Grbin spoke, and when he spoke, you put it on behalf of the promoter every time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51954	Thank you. I was present here at the assembly. As far as I'm concerned, the memory doesn't mean on behalf of the promoter was spoken by Pedja Grbin, a colleague and wrote on behalf of the promoter, and when he spoke, Minister Milenic wrote on behalf of the government. Yes, yes or no on behalf of the applicant. And I think technically, it's a purely technical thing that you're now alluding to as if it's a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Responsibilities of the Rules of Procedure were not colleagues with Buric, and you know it very well. If you are not satisfied, that is what I said in the first violation of the Rules of Procedure to refer to the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure to appeal. I'm asking you now, will you appeal to the board? You have to tell me. ... So you won't? [[You can't hear it.]] You won't. So you accept there was no damage to the Rules of Procedure? ... Well, you give me more authority than the Rules of Procedure gives me. [[I can't hear you.]] I don't need to, thank you. I find that the Rules of Procedure are not in breach of the Rules of Procedure, and you may choose to do so, and I hope that he will no longer be in this area in breach of the Rules of Procedure, because unfortunately the Rules of Procedure do not provide for sanctions unless a representative of the abuses of the Rules of Procedure of such a type, that the chairman immediately punishes him, but that may be determined by the Board if he does not file a written complaint. Comrade Buric, let's be correct. There's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. I ask you to make a request to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and I will point out that if you do not do so, you will not have the right to violate the Rules of Procedure. We're moving on with the replicas. Mrs. Kosor's first appearance was by Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51955	Thank you, Vice President. It doesn't have to be lively just in the morning, it can be afternoon. That's nice. Mrs Kosor, you have constructively discussed the problem of joining the draft amendment of the Croatian Constitution and I agree with you that the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution should not be touched, because there is already enough said and many years behind us work and everything is in the original foundations of the Croatian Constitution. What you said should wait with therefore constitutional changes, before the Law of Judicial Cooperation enters into force. That also makes sense. But if these constitutional changes are to be seriously approached, then it will take a little more time for them to spend. If the positions of the HDSSB Club will be discussed on the issue of regionalisation of Croatia, on the issue of criminal offences that threaten economic stability, on issues at home of regions that I have not talked about, so will our proposal. If you will talk about the problem of the referendum proposed by Croatian Labourists, if you will talk about your proposal regarding the session of the Parliament, the summer break of the Parliament. If consensus is to take place, dialogue will talk to all clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament then we need a little more time than two, three weeks or a month, two days, just until the end of the year when the Law on Judicial Cooperation will enter on 1 January 2014. If we take the Constitution seriously and you yourself have said that the Constitution should be a stable and firm document and that it is not subject to frequent changes which for the legal security of the state is not well. Then this time will also be used for dialogue with the government, with the Prime Minister, with the majority in the Parliament. We have time to bring the Constitution to the categories of the modern European Constitution and all those issues and all the views that are sometimes different from the club to the club, from the party to the party find their place in the Croatian Constitution if it is for the benefit of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Then it is a serious political constructive and real debate that has its purpose, its goal and therefore there is no one to be dissatisfied. And then we did everything that was our duty as representatives and club representatives when these issues and topics were to constructively discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51956	Thank you. We have an answer. Comrade Kosor, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51957	Thank you very much. I agree, of course, because we are about to complete our work in this part as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia provides for a little less than 2 months. Therefore, in that time, if we seriously approach the amendment of the Constitution it is just so long as to prepare everything, but to prepare everything in response to the Croatian Assembly's initiative for which more than 600,000 were collected, so about 700,000 signatures. So, certainly enough signatures as predicted by the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to call a referendum. So these two jobs must go parallel, and this is the time for all proposals to be discussed and then the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to enter into force on 1 January, the amended Constitution of the Republic of Croatia on 1 January 2014. That's more than logical.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51958	Next replica Drazen Djurovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51959	Thank you. You, Mrs. Kosor, pulled the parallel with this proposal to amend the constitutional constitution with that proposal of the Constitution on the non-deprecated crime. But I think there are significant differences. The amendment of the Constitution grew, in fact it had broad support and Croatian citizens because the citizens felt robbed and in some way most citizens were glad that the Constitution was changing in that part, did not obsess over turned crime, of course people hoped in vain that it was possible to sanction and punish those who robbed them in conversion and privatisation, although we all knew more than anyone else, and today we know that, unfortunately in this society, it is impossible. On the other hand, however, this decision does not have the support of the Croatian public. It is not clear to anyone why it is brought, what are the objectives, which is the target group. And on the other hand, yes, we are all in favour, for the punishment of the perpetrators of severe murder. What murders, when? Is it less of an obnoxious pedophilia that has antiquity? Why don't we get her into the Constitution, too? Why there's a limitation period for pedophilia, so isn't it also an obnoxious act for which there's an obsolescence, so the pedophile of the '70s is now an age-old act. And I'll remind you when it comes to amendments to the Constitution, a Norwegian example. Norway changed the Quisling Constitution after World War II, but no one thought to change for the Breivik Constitution, although Breivik committed the greatest crime in Norway since World War II and punished with a relatively mild prison sentence, but no one thought to change the Constitution. There should therefore be some social critical mass in society in order to make something seem and indeed a strong need of this society that due to some circumstances that are changing the Constitution, rather than on a daily political basis.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51960	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51961	Yes, my colleague Djurovic, I pulled a small parallel between the 2010 amendments to the constitution when we entered the consensus, and it was not at the very beginning the subject of amending the Constitution, so without it and with it we would enter the European Union when we decided to do so ourselves. But I don't think public expectations, unfortunately, were too much at the time. So the public supported it but the expectations were not too high and unfortunately proved to be right. But I was talking about when you put this once again on the scale of human life, which is the greatest, absolutely greatest value, greater than that, and it's not according to our Constitution, the current constitution and any kind of theft and robbery, then it's difficult and comparable. So I said if we let that burden go out there, then I think of the really most difficult killings, the taking of human life, which is punishable and must be punishable by both human and God's laws, then we as politicians can try to take that burden down. Then will it have an effect in the future that we will see in 10 years, if that happens. Now we can't know. However, I agree with you that any suspicion should be removed that the amendments to the Constitution are also going to protect anything or anything from anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51962	Thank you. Next line, Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51963	Thank you very much. My colleague Kosor, you said that the provision on the definition of marriage is also in the Family Law which today... and you are aware that the Ministry seems to be preparing me and that there are consultations with certain groups regarding the change of the law and you hear and news etc. But I must say that the Family Law is also so-called. organic law, which is voted on by the 2/3 majority, as well as the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, but what is, therefore, the highest expression of democracy is the referendum. The assumptions set out in the Constitution and the provisions on the referendum have been reached, and this referendum should therefore be maintained. What bothered me in your presentation, that you were constantly using the expression of the most severe murder and the most difficult murder, and we know that you said to your colleague Đurovic, which is why the daily political needs of this constitutional change are being brought forward, i.e. trying to open the roof as someone here said to the highest legislative body of the Constitution that something should be applied or changed. You see, the 2006 Council of Europe resolution is about the memory of the victims, the day of the victims in 23.8, the resolution speaks of totalitarian and authoritarian regimes. The European Parliament resolution, the 2006 Declaration of the Croatian Parliament, speaks of the conviction of crimes committed during the totalitarian communist order of '45. '90s. So only we in the Constitution don't seem to absolutely mention totalitarian regimes. I don't plead that it's called communist or fascist, but it's totalitarian authoritarian regimes and they need to find a place if we're already changing the Constitution, so it's not just the most difficult killings and the most difficult killings, but it's just been done for ideological reasons, so they came from...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51964	Time fellow Grubisic. Thank you. We have a colleague Kosor's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51965	Well, by that formulation of the most difficult murders, I mean, I'm a lawyer, that means all the murders, so taking every life, committed by any regime and any initiative, and I think it's absolutely covered in that notion. But I repeat once again, I have mentioned that we should remove any doubt as to why the amendment of the Constitution is in motion. We are going to agree on the amendment of the Constitution to come into force when the Law on judicial cooperation with the Member States of the European Union and we will be absolutely sure that we have done everything without any, any plantings. As for the definition of marriage, yes, I was the minister of the family when the Family Law was written, and when that definition is formulated in the Family Law on Marriage, which is a community of men and women and yes, I haven't changed my attitude today because I don't think politics is good, that it's enough, that it's enough to do that in Family Law. What's being prepared in the government for gay rights is what I don't know, I'll know as well as you do when we see it. Personally, I am absolutely against the possibility that such communities have the possibility of adopting children because I think that a child must have both a father and a mother, must grow with them. But in any other sense, I advocate that we always apply to the Law on Discrimination of Discrimination. Some of those in politics that encourage, in particular encourage, say some, and that definition in the Constitution about marriage sometimes unfortunately, and Croatia is actually a small environment, I also see a certain dose of hypocrisy. Therefore, this sanctity of marriage should always be lived and truly lived and then proved by its own life that it is indeed a community of men and women.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51966	Thank you. Next replica, Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51967	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues, Kosor, in one part of your debate, I would agree when you mentioned, therefore, the fact that it is necessary to consider the amendments to those constitutional provisions for the Parliament's work. That's what I mean in the right place, and we need to seriously consider it. But I'd say something else when you were talking about an argument as to why war profit was put on and the comparison that it's not comparable to hard murders. That's normal. However, if we have put war profit in the category of crimes that are not obsolete, yes, then we should really think about it and that is why we are also proposing as a club to put together with this war profiting industry not to get old and those crimes that threaten therefore economic stability and the financial position of the Republic of Croatia committed by government officials or, above all, apply to them. Because we're testifying, and now not only is there no statute of limitations but there's not even one cumulative condemnation to be made. We are witnessing today that former Prime Minister Sanader has been indicted, is still under trial, and has been charged with so many acts of maximum punishment for 15 years and then when it is done, and 4.5 of such acts has been indicted and if convicted, not prejudicing any of this, he will receive a reunited sentence. For such acts that have put all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia at risk for which we are going to ski for years and years because of what has been done, not only should it not be obsolete, because it is indeed a violation of the economic stability of the entire country but it should not enter the sphere of that maximum penalty that is united but maximum that is foreseen. We don't have the death penalty, but we do know what the maximum penalty is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51968	Time. You forced me to hurt my colleague Buric. I gave you 20 seconds more. We have a colleague Kosor's answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51969	Now I expect you to also violate the Rules of Procedure to give me 20 seconds more. I'm sure we'll discuss it a lot more. What you refer to as your club's proposal, or your party's proposal to take off the statutes and those who commit crimes related to economic independence, or in economic terms, endanger the state, is a very, very sensitive issue and we will certainly talk about it a lot. I agree, however, to put everything on the table and everything. Because that's where we can naturally come up with responsibility for certain decisions. The second is an individual offence, is it, taking bribes, etc., but we can easily reach government decisions, any government, because some decisions can be put in that context both now and in the future. However, if that is the case, if we agree on what I allow to open the debate, then we will also come to the questions of other officials. So what about the mayors, which is with the mayors, which is with the captains who are the same, and we have examples here not far from here in Zlatar, so the mayor who was eventually processed but who in black wrapped that city for the next 20 years I don't know. So he's been processed but it doesn't help the citizens. So they still live hard. Some counties that are in charge of endlessly, which I don't know how they're gonna get out of it, right? So it's about guilty, bad political decisions. Therefore, if we were to opt for the highest number of officials, with some officials not being able to make such decisions, then we would be automatically isolated from the process, then we would have to open up for everyone else. But we'll see. So, the process is open, you have a legitimate proposal and let's talk about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51970	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51971	Dear fellow Kosor, you have asked in one part of your debate whether we are prepared to judge and you have given the answer here, I'm going to pollute with you now. We have to do it, and if we're not prepared at this point to judge such crimes, we have to do everything we can to be prepared. I personally am not for this formulation proposed today by HDZ that everything that comes from Europe arrest warrants that they have the advantage, and our judiciary must be tested behind it. That means we actually deny the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. If we don't trust him, there I agree with the prime minister who jumps into his own mouth but I won't delude him because he's gone, that we're not building that foundation of the state, every democratic state is certainly a judiciary because without justice there's no justice, there's no justice to how we're going to have a country where there's gonna be order, where there's gonna be justice if every court order we're going to tell more to the Hungarian judiciary, more English, let's just not judge them. Therefore, it is very bad and I think it is not good for the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. And secondly, this is when you were talking about a family initiative. I fully agree that it should be implemented, so the referendum should be implemented because the initiative is legitimate under these laws today and because everything is made to reach this referendum. However, this is a referendum in form and procedure, not in content, because what you said is the same formulation in the Family Law and what the Family Initiative proposes. So I think it's too high and it's a referendum for a referendum and I think we're getting tired of unnecessary things. However, if we had a different referendum law, it would certainly be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51972	Thank you. We have a reply from my colleague Kosor here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51973	Yeah, I'll start at the end. Surely, the Law on Referendum is something that is necessary to balance or even the criteria at all levels to simplify. So it's something we should've already done and we're late and we're gonna have problems about it. But this is the same opportunity to finally start these things, and that is why I think today's debate is ultimately useful and that the promoters will really take all of our proposals into account. As for the suspicions of the judiciary, that's an extremely sensitive question. So it opens up legitimately here, but if we open it to the end and if we end it with both political and each other, and in particular we analyse the legal level, then we have doubts in the rule of law. And if we come to doubt in the rule of law then we go back to the beginning and we have to ask ourselves what we have because in that case we are showing suspicion of the institutions of the state and the state is functioning on three pillars of government and then we are expressing suspicion of one pillar and if we start it and so citizens have big doubts, citizens who are hard to come to justice because the justice that comes through 10, 15 years is not even justice. And if we raise it to this level, I think we're coming to a very, very slippery area. I repeat, we certainly would not have closed Chapter 23 because it had essentially a reform of the judiciary, independence of the courts, a trial for war crimes and every other one but a trial in Croatia, because we did not do so properly, we would not be a member of the EU today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51974	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the IDS Representatives Club and Independent Representative Furia Radina, colleague Furio Radin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51975	Thank you very much. What more can the IDS Club and Independent Representative Furi Radina say after so many discussions on so many different topics we have heard today about this one issue of a sentence that is changing which the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia wants to change. I'm like you've known here for many years and I don't know what these are in order of constitutional change for which I or IDS will vote. I remember seeing dear colleague Maria Lugaric here and I remember her young but here she is full of mandates, I remember when she was 25 years old that she and I discussed that she had already changed the Constitution three times at the age of 25. And so what Salapic is saying is that it is rare to change the Constitution, to watch how the Constitution is changed, that there should be debates quite different, and in particular that a dialogue must be held between the opposition and the coalition in power and in the coalition itself in power, it is one thing that should be self-comprehensible. But you know when we look back how many times the Constitution has changed for the real needs of people and citizens and how many times it does let me say that for propaganda, for politically propaganda reasons, then somehow my hands fall because I think politics has been far more dominant than the real needs of people to change the Constitution. So now, first of all, we want to ask ourselves a question, so why do we need to change the Constitution in order to put an end to killings? I'm in my naiveties I thought if a man kills another man regardless of whether it's a serious murder or a general murder whenever you catch him you should actually judge him, I mean that obsolescence... Let's imagine now that one person of 20 and manages to escape, after 40 years, that person is 60 years old and can normally walk around town even though she committed a serious murder, as it is possible or any murder at all. And you just haven't been able to find her in so many years, and it didn't happen. How can we go today to change the Constitution when it is most normal to change the Criminal Law and solve this problem in that way? Don't mind me if I think there's a lot more politics here than any other reason. In addition, the IDS Club confuses the procedure for making constitutional changes. If not for other reasons, then for mathematical, arithmetical reasons. Now let me explain what that means. With whom will the government bring these changes? With HDZ, with coalition partners? I hear there was no dialogue with HDZ on these constitutional changes. And you'll be surprised if there was no dialogue with coalition partners about these constitutional changes. I hear from my IDS colleagues from the club president that no one has ever asked the IDS club if it agrees with those changes. I believe that's what happened to the pensioners. I talked to my colleagues from the HNS who told me that the first idea was actually launched without a discussion without communication, only later there was communication. Is it possible not to talk, not to speak with the opposition, although in my opinion when the Constitution is changed you should talk to everyone and the Constitution must not come to a plenary session until you have broad enough consent. Why, because you're changing the Constitution for the future, changing the Constitution for when you're no longer in power, changing the Constitution for people, for citizens, not changing the Constitution for your political goals or for some other political reasons. Is it possible, then, that no communication has occurred although every vote is needed if it really wants to make changes or is intended to discuss these changes, the goal of having a debate, a debate, to see who will have points on such an initiative. So let's take that the government, a group of SDP deputies, really wants these changes, then math will have to say, they will have to change their proposal, which comes from the words before colleagues of Peja Grbina. He'll have to change his proposal. This proposal ultimately, the proposal as it is now most likely not to be. Now, if we want to see, since some others have already discussed what other changes should be, then the IDS Club believes that if something should be the subject of a change to the Constitution, it should not be an obsolescence that can be changed by criminal law but by the architecture of Croatia, the structure of Croatia. It is unimaginable that Croatia's structure wants to change to a small door, citing an economic crisis or entering the European Union. Otherwise, these two myths are always placed when unpopular decisions are made. Europe and the crisis. So let's make some decisions that we haven't really asked anyone about, and we didn't really ask the citizens. If something must be really clear, it is transparently stated in the Constitution, then it is of how many regional units are made up of Croatia. Because introducing these changes to a small door as it is desired with some statistical regions is, in fact, one delusion, or the deception of citizens of Croatia who were not asked or deceived by Europe, which is said to be introduced by such statistical virtual regions, means not real but virtually to obtain financial resources. The IDS Club wants complete transparency here in the definition of Croatia's architecture and I want to say that it needs to be made clear, that Istria is one of the Croatian regions because Istria is looking for full 23 years and it is the only county, the only region we call that has been constantly since 1990, to this day for historical, economic and generally structural reasons. The number of inhabitants, some began to say that the number of inhabitants could not be a criterion. You have countries in the European Union that have the smallest region of 300 thousand people and the largest of 11.5 million people. We cannot just take this as a criterion but must be economic, historical and general and the reasons for tradition and feelings. Only one region in Croatia constantly and people in that region, the majority people in that region have repeatedly declared their desire for regionalisation, self-government, or if you want to use that word for autonomy, which is Istria. Taken from Istria your regionality is what concerns us the reason for a serious and deep division, regardless of whether it is taken on the basis of some region that is declared statistical, and slowly already the state administration is moving from Istria to Rijeka. I'll make it even clearer. If something of the region in Croatia is not taking away anything else, but others have not shown such clear will, the desire to be regions, then it is Istria and every attempt to take away this right of Istria statistically or politically is, in fact, some kind of violence against Istria itself. So the Constitution predicts the regionalisation of Croatia, so let's achieve this regionalisation. I agree with colleagues who have said that the regionalisation of the state needs to be achieved, we put it in the Constitution, we leave it clear, we put in clear regions that are historically looking for it and who deserve it historically. And finally, given that Istra is special and because of its national composition and that of history and that of today, then we support the SDSS's initiative to finally law, so-called. The constitutional law on national minorities becomes a real constitutional law without being passed by the criteria of organic law anymore. It has very clear reasons, the reasons are that the constitutional law cannot be changed by the Constitutional Court, and we have seen how they changed it three months before the election while the organic law can. And in the end, we can't keep eyeing everyone around us with the constitutional law on national minorities, and then that constitutional law isn't. So we've been discussing this law for a long time, a little bit of everyone's already tired, waiting to see what's going to be brought out in an individual debate. But it should be clear, the Constitution should change when it really has a reason for it, it should be changed rarely, but it should be changed when Croatia's architecture changes when Croatia's structure changes. And that will be safe when we regionalise Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51976	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. The first replica, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51977	Dear colleague Radin, here you are in favour of the Istra region that I don't mind and you didn't say that curse or fettle that your hand or tongue dried up which is as good as your colleague Cain says it is. However, it would have been much better if we had started two years ago, but of course long before, we would have talked about reforming local self-government. Then we'd come to some conclusions if we'd run some tests. And now it is required that the constitution we said should be adopted by the end of the year at the latest when the Arrest Order Act comes into force so then we'll write on our noses what we're going to write, it's going to be 5 regions you're asking to write down that it's Istria, but it's absolutely certain that the Kukuriku coalition won't tear off the cards, maybe not five, six regions, type in numbers and letters, but it won't name it. I think it's a much bigger job and it requires much more seriousness and actually a lot more time. And we need to open a public debate and see what with all those local units that can't be financed on their own. And of course, I fully agree with you that for determining the regions is not only a criterion of the number of inhabitants but everything else that is far more important, and these are historical facts, then the economy of the region and everything that other countries in the EU determine what it can be and can't be a region. By knowing that it will be important to determine whether Istria will also be Slavonia in how many regions we will share Croatia with will cause very big conflicts and interesting and political in the Republic of Croatia. That's why I think it's too little time until the new year to do it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51978	Replication response, colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51979	Well, I think if there's one topic that needs to be regulated by the Constitution, it's really a device. And it's not just a structure to say and it's written in the Constitution that Istria is made up of counties for example. More importantly, it is written in the Constitution that Croatia is divided into these and those parts. It should be in the second article, and the first article and this one I'll give it to support the initiative if it ever comes from the Labour Club should be work. In the first article, it should be work because there's nothing to do, and you say, I always mention Italy that around some things there's... around some no but around this yes. The first article of the Constitution of Italy says Italy is a work-based republic, and with us is around 50th place. For the first time, he was mentioned in the 50th article for the first time. But the region should be immediately thereafter in the division of the country to indicate which regions they are, and if a new region is formed, it must be constitutionally determined. It's serious and big stuff. Whether it's a new year or not, I don't know. I know we've changed things here in a week to think about for two, three years, and we've done it in a week. Let's do this for a year to think about doing it in a few months.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51980	And another replica, colleague Ante Sanader.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51981	Here's the esteemed Mr. Radin you've said here several times that Istria is the only one who wants a region if I'm okay... Okay, she made a statement. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No region, no areas that don't want their independence, no areas that don't want financial independence. It's not normal for some of our mayors to go to the Ministry of Any Government to look for a water line between the upper and lower villages. Because he doesn't have the means. So, the focus is the entire local and regional self-government, the regional as it is with the counties now to decentralize and financially decentralize the system and to manage each one of them. It is known what belongs to the state, but what is regional must remain in the region. And that's why it would be tragic if these amendments to the Constitution were to bring this into place if the state were to regionalize within 2 months as long as it was intended for this and how much it would change for it to go on now and put something in the Constitution in any sense, because there is absolutely no preparation, there is no quality labs, there is no justification study for it. And here's hoping that you'll be against it not being so quick to regionalize.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51982	Replication response, colleague Furio Radin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51983	With the first part, I couldn't agree more. I could agree with the other part that the statistical regionalisation process of Croatia is not in place. I don't understand what statistical regionalization is, do I? That's how you have to show the regions to apply to the funds. Whether they're real regions or virtual. If they're real regions we cheat on citizens because we didn't ask them, if they're fictitious, if they're virtual, we cheat on Europe because then we tell them something that doesn't suit reality. So I agree with you that you should think about how to fix it again, I mean by the Constitution. But also be careful that it may be arranged without changing the Constitution at all but at a small door.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51984	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. First, a respected colleague, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, applied. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51985	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues. The requirement to change the Constitution of SDP representatives is quite short, simple, logical and deeply fair. And on the trail, in essence of all the discussions we often have and often we lead them, and we have done little to finally end these stories, or to find their place not only in criminal law and criminal trial, which is often slow but also in the Constitution, so that when political guarantees are changed, some fundamental values remain permanent, which is that all the serious crimes of murder, the killings of political murders, the murders of low motives, and all those who are described in the Penal Code are not outdated. That is clear and no one would object if many were not always attached to a specific case. Well, when it comes to a suspect from some political option, of course, it's always simpler when it's past, when the victim is in some way and the victim is always the victim and deserves our respect and our care, it's different to having in mind some political murder that's done because someone sympathises some political option. If we're going to argue like that, then we'll never make it to the green branches. We want to say that every murder and especially committed on behalf of a state on behalf of a political group is the most monstrous and disgusting because the purpose and purpose of every country is to protect the lives of its citizen above all and that he has no right to take it away even when he committed the most serious crimes. Unfortunately, however, this is not yet the case, and that is why many struggles arise. Then the questions of the killings of the 1950s, the 1960s, the '70s, the '80s, but not later. So what we're proposing is for each first and 41st and '91s and 2001s for each first and all those years to follow until the next decade and all that again from the beginning and backwards. And what's the big deal? That's not where the dispute should be. So we will come or try to come or enable and give tools from the highest level, raise it to constitutional value, translate into laws to solve everything that many HDZ have talked about, in which we agree, but we say there is no point in having that yet. So there were a lot of colleagues here counting the victims. But the victims only have the right to list some of the victims, who would have mentioned them all. But I will point out Levar's murder of Levar, the murder of Krivoca, the murder of Baresic, the murder of a state attorney in Gospić, in 1991, who was killed and who was deprived of his duties for five days because he did not report to work. That's the other inexplications of the murder. And a lot of people were killed who weren't talked about in public, they weren't so exposed in public, and then we don't mention them either. It's something that we need to be clear about, and nobody here has any reason to talk like that. Well, no one's involved, and there's no reason. Now there should be a little dignity and self-critical in all of that. Of course all international obligations are met. But allow it because a lot of time we've spent on communist crimes and no system that boasts that it can't be democratic can be amnesty from being incompetent to do so. And today, a lot of people are killing themselves because of the democratically formed states because first someone declares himself a terrorist to be a danger to the state. And then when a murder happens, no one complains but the perpetrators celebrate. But as one German shaion says, all who killed as spies in the name of a state should count on it to come to court at some point. That's what Wölf said. We need to be clear about that. Then the company of Jacobine says nicely in an article, ‘ Let’s not be prejudiced. ’ Well, people living in Croatia aren't all suspects that they've killed in foreign countries or that they're innocent. And in the 1980s, according to the nice company Jakovina, in this one article, so many who depicted themselves as victims as dissidents did not essentially seek an independent Croatia but robbed the then former state. So isn't that what we're supposed to be judging about? Let's make all of this possible, and all of this will come apart in front of our own or in front of foreign courts who are more competent and who are more capable of it. Now that we're coming to that, I'm very glad, it's one big advance and we appeal and the opposition has already accepted part of it, but these are the conditions to set up. This is not who will outsmart who, so ask the question we will vote for it, so we never objected to what is incorrect. See what any debates were conducted on the Constitutional Committee with fellow Shexes, he was atterior today, maybe he didn't know what direction he was going to give so he wanted but irrelevantly, it's even irrelevant. But setting out the conditions for particularly apostrophe of communist crimes as if they weren't murders from particularly low initiatives. Then he says and you just do it like this, and this is your proposal to eskicipate a foreign court and judge the local judiciary. Imagine that. So that's such a logic that such criminals will have a haven in domestic justice. Well, I haven't seen worse accusations of domestic justice, and we've all been one-hearted that our judiciary is to judge the most serious criminals, criminals accused and war crimes. We all said that when we criticised the court in The Hague, why these people are standing in The Hague, why not allow domestic justice, and now we have another story and we point out that all of this is better done by foreign courts. It is primarily so to say, to remind of the provisions of the Constitution, in particular the provision of Article 4. The constitution, the provision that the judicial authority is the foundation of the government in the Republic of Croatia, with executive and legislative provisions, that executive and legislative changes are made but that we have established the judicial authority according to the principle of invariability. There's no choice for judges. So we're changing, we're leaving, and the most permanent rule is destiny. So what kind of people shake the pillars of their country and their existence? After all, in a globalized world when we have a common defense, when we have many other common prerogatives that once made up national states. You can see that the acquis in the judiciary is the smallest but we will respect it of course, but let's not deny our justice. Well, I believe it's in some kind of a little bit and some kind of grizzly, maybe even political here and the stage, but think about it, I'm saying it. I believe that you too have confidence in our judiciary, and that is why it is not necessary to do so. So when it's said that, I'm going to repeat, I said something in the replica and now I'm going to make it a little clearer, so when we all agreed on the amendment to the Constitution that the crimes of war profiting as well as crimes from the process of converting and privatising the beginning of the Homeland War and peaceful integration and that such property will be taken away. Imagine that we opposed and said, and we were initiators ourselves and that we said in parentheses committed during HDZ. They were done at the most during that time, but who says that some others didn't get their revenge there. So what right would they tell me?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51986	Thank you very much. Finish your co-workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51987	Here's another final sentence. Just as I said about this first proposal of yours, but also for this second condition of yours, I think you should think about it...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51988	Thank you very much. Replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51989	Thank you very much, Vice President. Comrade Antičević, it is known that you are an excellent lawyer, your theory is working out, probably also a practice. Here's an example: Today we heard something about it, Goli Island, it's in the local self-government unit where I live. It's a political prison founded in '49. And he was the worst in the '49s. Until '56. A year. Let's say you bring this constitution as you imagined it, you'll probably bring it in, and now we know the facts. It was founded by a general of UDBA after 1949, after 1200 people landed on the island in the 7th month, six months later it was declared the people's hero of Yugoslavia. Tito decorated him. He's as far as I can tell, still alive today. He even wrote a book called "My Goals" in which he described the island and the prison as spas in which people were almost reared. So I'm asking you now when it changes, lives in the neighbouring republic, how you're going to condemn this classic communist crime in the name of the system, how you're going to bring him to justice, who's going to bring him to justice if he even manages to bring him to justice, and who's going to give satisfaction to those who still survived, who were participants of it, and every year they come there remembering their days on that island. Can this state, based on this Constitution, change that Constitution? You'll probably, here, please tell me the practice of how when you bring these constitutional changes you'll make and how that man might be convicted if he's guilty, if he's guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51990	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51991	Not only if he's guilty, but if he's a suspect, if he's charged, he needs to know what country he's in. If it is in a country in the European Union, we already do, they do not extradite their citizens. Now you should see whose citizenship he has everything. I'll just mention something our Croatian citizens wanted parallelly in '91, '95, '96. The year of the robbery, they were looking for citizenship not only in Bosnia and Herzegovina but also in Serbia. So if the country is approaching and has a European perspective it will surely be obliged to comply with these rules. However, we already have international agreements with neighbouring countries, with Bosnia and Herzegovina, regardless of why it is not obliged to enter into such international relations with us where we already see in the execution of sanctions that one country is not a haven for one and a haven for another country. Well... heavy, I know about what they're about, and I'd be happy to see it happen either here or to be tried in another country if they don't want it or can't extradite it to a near future here. Likewise, I'd say this opportunity to say the murders that took place in the '90s, which are not war crimes, and I think only these constitutional changes will give strength to witnesses because the truth is what you just said. All these political, particularly politically motivated crimes, not other serious, and other difficult, and particularly political, regardless of which political initiatives have been made, a conspiracy to silence the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51992	Thank you. Tatjana Shimac-Bonacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51993	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Ingrid, just before you said I'll quote you we did a little bit to finish the story. And that's right. Here we have heard today the case of Dax's island, the crime that took place, the biggest crime in Dubrovnik. That's true, but 20 years have passed and in this country, nothing has been done. And I wonder those who talked about what they did to make something at all. It was only 19.6.2010 that was a worthy burial for those victims. It wasn't just the Croats. These are for people who know other nationalities, people of other religions. And 53 victims were excavated from which 18 were identified. I've spoken to families of such victims. So I repeat, it seems a little bit like the end of this whole story, and we're talking a lot, and we're politicizing a lot by mentioning this island and these victims, unfortunately for this kind of purpose, it's not good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51994	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51995	My colleagues Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, and the victims and those who committed them, those who committed crimes on the island of Iz, on Molat, throughout our homeland, in the mainland and on the coast, and who do so in the name of some political ones, in the name of freedom of God's abominations and should be condemned. And we all must express our contempt for such perpetrators together, especially those who are in secret service and who are put to the point of killing a man. You have every element to bring him in if he's a national or a national enemy, to judge him. But unfortunately, it's not our place. Unfortunately, we still do, but we are now part of the world and part of Europe and part of the world and we have the strength to point it out, because we have the strength to clear things up and say what right you call a democratic country, declare someone a terrorist and kill him. Why don't you catch him? Why don't you judge him? Because all such actions, all those who were killed were terrorists for someone, the enemies of a system. And when the system changes, then we're disgusted. We need to be so capable that there isn't, so every country has to judge such a person, not kill her. No one has the right to do that. And let's not make them get out of this earthly justice that's imperfect. Many have gone to one that will be much more perfect, but we also do our duty here on earth.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51996	And Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51997	Thank you very much. Comrade Ingrid, let me just continue on this last sentence of yours, and the first one that states are obliged to take care of their people's lives. But it's not exactly the way it is in the world today. We know how China works and how it judges its own, and to say criminals from corruption - with a bullet to the forehead. But in China, not abroad, or I don't know where. Furthermore, you also talked about Malaysia and so on. You also spoke about the doubts that arise in the Croatian judiciary, in the event of such processes. I'd say, by the way, that you've actually expressed yourself in some way or you've compromised the value of some other courts. So perhaps you have reduced the value of the German court compared to the Croatian court. So, you were going to say that perhaps in a German court there is a bias in the case of the trial of our people. I don't know what you were gonna say. You know that 30, 40 years ago in that former state, it was that football judges were brought in to judge primarily the Yugoslav League of Italy, Germany, etc. So, interestingly, even in that country, football judges have been brought in, judging local so-called. The championship. Therefore, they had much less confidence in some sort of judge on the side. And when you're talking about conversion and privatisation and the graces of antiquity, or constitutional decision that there is no statute of limitations for such crime in conversion and privatisation, so you said, you mentioned, I'm not defending HDZ. We know that the HDZ was also in charge at the time and that it was in power, but this conversion and privatisation continued beyond 2000. So we could hook up another party, even yours in that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51998	Reply to the replica Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u51999	I'm sorry, I trust the most domestic justice and we're obliged to cooperate with everyone else, it's our responsibility and so does Germany and so does Italy and so does Switzerland. And it's our duty. Article 20 each person shall have the right to decide, within a reasonable period, by law, the rights and obligations of an independent, impartial court. It's the priority of the domestic justice system. Secondly, we have so far received 125 requests to act under the Law on judicial cooperation in criminal matters with EU Member States. We are of 125 requests of 52 suspects or defendants or defendants are not located in Croatia. 9 search engines have given up the search engine. We gave 27. There are 12 procedures under way. 25 cases were committed before 2002 for various crimes, until a serious murder. According to this brief statistics, in this short time, we are far above the European average of how the EU member states cooperate with each other and how they extradite their citizens, or how they hand their citizens over to another country's trial. So I'm not saying we're great and we're great, but in these things we're much better than others. And another interesting thing. The stronger the country, the stronger it is, the stronger it is, the stronger it is in Europe, the less it extradites its own citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52000	We're continuing the debate. Vice President Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52001	Thank you very much, Vice President. So there's been a few questions in this debate. First of all, how often should we change the Constitution? I don't think it matters whether the Constitution changes often or changes rarely, it's important to change it when it needs to be changed. The State of Israel when it was founded was written in its Constitution that it was a land without a death sentence. Then they caught Eichman and then they changed the Constitution, put the death penalty in and hung Eichman. When they hanged Eichman, they changed the Constitution again and abolished the death penalty. It became a need for justice to be done because if they had not gone into the amendment to the Constitution of justice that the Israelites had desired, they would not have been satisfied. Another question that asks what changes everything since the Constitution is changed? Of course we should change a lot of things in that Constitution. You should, for example. The matter of the referendum should be resolved and the way in which the Constitution is amended should be resolved. Because look, the Constitution can change in two ways. It can be changed as we are now trying to change it in the Croatian Parliament and then it must be changed by two-thirds majority, and for that two-thirds majority for 101 seats it is necessary to win about a million-and-a-half votes in the elections. And it can also be changed by a referendum with 740 thousand signatures and a referendum of 50,000 people. And then the will of 50,000 people is equal to or above the will of those chosen and elected by a million and a half people. It's illogical. This illogicality in the Constitution was subdued when we wanted to, we were too concerned that the EU referendum would not pass, and then we reduced the criteria. Either they should be returned or other criteria should be introduced but this should be settled constitutionally. These and other changes, some other innovations in the Constitution can be made and I believe that around them will be possible to reach consensus and should be made in a broad public debate of good and thoroughly prepared. This initiative has nothing to do with it. It's actually an answer to one hysteria that puts a deep division into a national being. And that hysteria must be stopped because it poses a danger, a real danger. Here, speaking of international co-operation on judicial issues in co-operation with EU countries, counterpart Davorin Mlakar cried out saying on behalf of HDZ you are protecting murderers. That's what he told the SDP. Carefully, it was not said by a representative of some small, non-essential, marginal party that had no influence at all by a representative of the largest opposition party of the ruling coalition protecting murderers. No one in Croatia has the right to protect murderers, whether in power or in opposition. And we have to prove it. And we'll prove it. Who's the killer? The first initiative of politically motivated killings is the response of the government's most difficult qualified murders, which then include these most difficult killings, including these politically motivated murders. Who's got a problem with that? HDZ. Unbelievable! Why? Why do you have a problem with that? To punish murderers, to punish criminals, to commit the most serious murders, and also to those politically motivated? It's an incredible amount of illogicality and total nonsense that is sometimes said here today in the assembly. Dujomir Marasovic would judge dead people. That's what he said in one replica. It's a strong contribution to the legal theory and I believe that all the colleges in the world will open up panels about it when they hear about it. Because that's really, that statement, that idea, and it's said by HDZ, that's what needs to be analysed. In addition, Dujomir Marasovic would have tried the culprits of the Goli Island. I don't know if they all died so they met that first condition that they could be tried, but I know it's past time for old age. And now he would judge, and he would not break the statute which is a hindrance to them. That's a wonderful example of logic. That should be included in the logic textbooks. That's how one parliamentary representative thinks. That's how he represents those who voted for HDZ. There's a tendency to protect the SDPs. What's the SDP got to do with protecting the refugees? When in the '90s, I guess all the rescuers went to HDZ because they weren't crazy to stay in the SKH there Tudjman accepted them, hired them, and you were all silent, all of them. And now the HDZ is attacking us, the SDP, to protect the killers of the rescuers, and the SDP wants to take off the old age so that they can be persecuted for what HDZ won't. Listen, if I were to write it in some comedy to my audience, they'd tell my viewers that I've gone too far, that it's not life and that's what's happening today in this assembly. That's worse than the worst satire. It's gonna be hard for you to explain to the citizens why you're against taking it off. I wouldn't want Levar's killer to get away with it if he ever got out of it. I wouldn't want that. I think that would be unfair. Don't you think? Do you want this man to go unpunished and if he is caught and tried? I wouldn't want all those perpetrators of those murders that my colleague Ingrid was talking about to go unpunished because of old age. I wouldn't want Croatian emigrant killers to go unpunished because it's out of date or it could be out of date for a few years because no one has the right to kill another man on behalf of some ideology on behalf of the state on behalf of the government in the name of the party, no one has the right to do that. So why do you have problems about it? So who exactly do you want to protect, and why? You'll have a serious problem explaining that to the citizens. That's the SDP's attitude. The SDP wants something else, wants this issue to be about this aggressive macaroni speech that we have heard here that the truth is being established and that is why we are proposing an investigative commission. For this investigation committee we don't need your votes, so we're going to start it so we can see who was working together when you really want to push out the truth, so let's get her out of here and see who was working with them, and see who was protecting them, so let's see who hired them. To wish that Croatian citizens should be tried by foreign courts, not by Croatian citizens, is completely incomprehensible but totally incomprehensible to me. So much to despise your own country, so much to despise your own justice, it's incomprehensible to me. Well, if you were to say in America that you're about America handing over American citizens and they're being tried by other courts and you'd end up in Guantanamo, I guess. Well, that would have been understood there as high treason and no other way, but it can hardly be taken differently. I only hope that we will gather enough hands without you, that the two-thirds majority will be gathered, but if we don't, then it will be perfectly clear to the citizens who was against being tried for the most serious crimes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52002	Thank you. Vladimir Shakespeare replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52003	This really belongs to fellow Stazic in the theatre of absurds. You're accusing HDZ of her being against abolishing the age of murder. So were you here today when I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, made it clear and loud that HDZ was about to abolish the statutes of serious murder, that HDZ agreed to abolish the statute of limitations and politically motivated murder, so where were you? What's wrong with your machine's knowledge? How can you end up with a clear and clear fact that you are going to claim something and continue to debate yourself here and argue that HDZ will explain to those who are voting against abolishing the statute of limitations? Secondly, what you're saying is that you're judging other courts, alluding to what I'm saying. I am speaking and repeating that once it will be clear enough for everyone to understand this, and I hope that in the event of judicial cooperation with the European arrest warrant, if the EU Member State has initiated criminal proceedings for the crime committed in its country against a Croatian citizen, that it will take precedence over the criminal procedure that started in that foreign EU member state and that Croatia cannot then play the entire legal gain of the European arrest warrant by taking over and continuing the prosecution. It's very simple and it'll hopefully take time to figure it out. But this really belongs to the theatre of fellow Stazic, we are often in the theatre but this is also through absurdity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52004	Thank you. The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52005	Yeah, well, you know, you're a colleague of the Shacks, and you're gonna vote against it. And you're telling me that there's something wrong with my cognitive apparatus.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52006	Miroslav Tudjman replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52007	Thank you, Madam Vice President. This really has nothing to do with what you're saying. It's clear that we're here against all crimes but we need to do a categorization of these crimes and that's where we disagree. You have dared here to say that all the comforters ended up in HDZ, and then we want to turn the matter around and ask who founded this Uboba, who led them, who set their goals, who ordered them to kill people around the world. What's up with that and where were your foster parents? They were in Knin. You want me to name you now all those names of associates who had raised a rebellion against Croatia that fought against this? And where were the strangers in which they were until then, and what were they leading? Therefore, such collective accusations as you claim are not such, it really doesn't make any sense, and it's below the level of dignity and of this Parliament and of the political reality that it was then and which it is today. So when you said it wasn't my place to respond to other people's replicas, but here you address HDZ without distinction, you say the paradox is to be tried by dead people. There's simply a question of justice here. What about the victims who require a historical political assessment because surely most 90 or more of these people who are... They don't, they're not alive, that's why they're responsible. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, who will give satisfaction to these victims. With these formulations they certainly won't, and that's what's the key to the dispute here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52008	Thank you. The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52009	You're saying to tell me all the names of the comforters, you'll be able to do it on the Investigative Commission, I believe you know enough of them. Thousands of reasons you can find and wrap yourself in a thousand possible and impossible ways to find an explanation why you will not vote for these amendments to the Constitution. The consequence of this if the Constitution doesn't change will be that it will remain obsolete. And that sin will lie upon your souls.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52010	And Josip Boric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52011	My colleague, I'm going to run... Dear Vice President, your stage performances may impress someone, citizens' experiences say there are different reactions, but you have called for logic and even tried to offend us on this side that we have no logic. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] That logic in politics sometimes doesn't work. Imagine it makes sense that when a party is founded a state, when important decisions are made on the independence of that state are left by the Parliament and has the opportunity to lead the same state twice. Is that a logic? Is that a logic? No, but it's possible. And it happens. And what am I supposed to say to see you have a logic problem? You don't have a logic problem. You're just always using what you think is political. And that's normal and legitimate. But to differentiate the opposite side, to find out that they protect crimes by a statement or you're for or you're protecting a crime but then put on the other side and say so fellow Mlakar said you're protecting crimes, so is there equality there? So you're allowed everything, you can do whatever you want. We can't even make a proposal on this side if it's not what you want. And we said everything we said today and made it very clear on behalf of the club, very clearly. The one who wants to manipulate finds a hundred reasons why someone doesn't like it. If we want the truth, we accept it. Nothing's gonna change, but you don't want to. And yet HDZ is guilty and will always be guilty. He was for you in the '90s, remember, a party of dangerous intentions. Now you're trying to impute everything else to him. Croatian citizens will recognize it sooner or later, you will see.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52012	The answer to the replica Nenad Stazic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52013	Now, here's the deal. What makes sense to me and what doesn't make sense to you. So this makes sense to me, the one who wants to end the statute of limitations for the most difficult killings of the vote to change the constitution that's depreciated. And your logic is this, we want to abolish the statute of limitations, so we won't lift it. Now that's your logic. Look, look, I don't understand that logic, but that logic wouldn't be understood by any logician in the world. It's the only logic that's true in HDZ and nowhere else in the world except in your party it's worth it. To vote for A, wanting B. And vote for B wanting A. I'm sorry, that's really hard to understand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52014	We continue the debate, colleague Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52015	Thank you very much. So here I suppose, however, that today the Croatian public is more interested in who will be the new team selector than this topic, at least that's what it looks like in the media. They are all burdened with who will lead the Croatian team. And I am sorry that we have to discuss this topic today at the SDP initiative for SDP parliamentary representatives, the SDP government, although we could discuss the Law on Strategic Investments much more important for Croatian citizens. But we have to deal with this, so we're in business. The old people would say that the government that is moving away from God and the people does not have a future in particular in democratic societies where public rules have been laid down especially in terms of the duration of the mandate and where the government’s trinity is clear. Legislative, executive, judicial which carry out their activities and tasks for the benefit of citizens in accordance with the law. However, the moment this relationship is broken, when it is not balanced, when the executive power takes over the superior primate in making decisions, when in an aggressive way it tries to commit its interests and legislative and judicial authority, society, people, citizens are not progressing. They also show fear and uncertainty, though the form is seemingly satisfied in the full part. Why are we saying that? I feel like we're just in a moment like this. So let's see why. I looked at the government's 2012-2015 programme, page 49-52, chapter of the judiciary. Not a word of the intention of changing the Constitution or any word of intent for the government to be calculated with severe murders for any reason. Not a single word. If you didn't write it down in the plan for me, it's the logic that happened to you. If you weren't planning on it. And I think that's what happened to you. And why did it happen? Because there is a constant interest in the party to deal with the past but it is also mixed with the fear of the same one in which many bad events have never been lit up. And the participants of these same bad events are part of the very legacy of the same party as interesting, which legal, which property, which family. I've already said it here and I'm going to repeat, it's hard to accept the fact that these biological or ideological ancestors were members and active participants of a system that was just passing into a new form of social order declared totalitarian, condemned as such in some documents, but never in a fair way exposed and truly condemned. Unplanned, which out of ignorance, which in thoughtlessness, and often also in God's transparency, the party in power has reached the task of clearing it up with its own past. There was enough one small trigger, an attempt at fraud, here I think of the law lex Perkovic and it was enough to become a topic where no funds were chosen, a topic where the spirit of the past was revived. What's the game doing? He shows great fear for the purity of his existence and inheritance. I read the history of the SDP on Wikipedia, and it says: it was created from the Social Democratic Wing of the Federation of Communists of Croatia, through a party of democratic changes to today's Social Democratic Party. In the case of lex Perkovic it may be possible for me to lose that purity which, in one way or another, has served and presented to Croatian citizens for the past 20 years. If it was created by the Federation of Communists of Croatia, which says its first name, if it took over the property of the same communist alliance we have property so I would say legal relations. But what's wrong? There are people missing who make up the party, people from that totalitarian system. Some tell me today these people from that system are pulling the strings out of the shadows. I'm 40 years old, I'm told by people who have passed this system in the full of their lives, that they're pulling shadows and affecting many processes in this country of young democracy. So where's it stuck? It has been pointed out that they do not want to face this burdensome past honestly, but that the exhibition is trying to put forward the rules proposed by the executive authority once more separate this attempt not to be calculated but to seek justice for all living participants of the difficult past that we are all talking about. Because to be honest, there are laws today that made it possible and they shouldn't have changed, but what to say. I'll give you an example. I'm reading a column from the evening titled "Is Sljeme a Great Grave and what crimes he hides 30 cm underground", just one small part. "Only 5 km from Ban Jelačić Square, barely 35 cm below the ground, the hand of a high school student was held in her hand 67 years ago by a cross with her chain, a second before a guy with a nice partisan hat fired a bullet in his forehead. He's been lying next to him for 67 years, 29 of his friends, all on the verge of adulthood." It's just one piece of the column that describes one crime five kilometers from here. I also cited Goli Island as an example of a real political prison where thousands of people were imprisoned without conviction, without names or last names, with a number because they were guilty of thinking, popularly called IBs or info bureaumen. It's been a naked island since '49. Until '56. was a political prison that hosted what the UDBA General said, hosted in his spas 1200 people in the first step, and then in '71. The prisoners of Croatian Spring come in the year, and in '82. prisoners from Kosovo. It was not until the late '80s that Goli Island became a milder form of criminal and correctional prison. What do these proposed changes say? I asked a great lawyer today, and she didn't explain to me how when all of this applies to justice and who are still alive. They're 93 years old, whether they'll be solved by biology or justice, as someone said, I think he said Peja Grbin, biology. Is that how we handle it? When I know what the statistics say, we've changed here and we're saying here in the decision example, constitutional changes to the non-deprecated part of the conversion and privatisation. Three years from then, how many convictions we have, none. I'm afraid it's the same or similar story at work. Because I remember me and some of them getting mandates on the story that they'd pay back all the money from Virgin Islands, from various exotic oasis where they were stored, but nothing happened. Who profited? The one who talked about it, the politicians. What we had in reality, nothing. What will the proposed amendment of the Constitution bring? Recently said one of the judges of the County Court in Zagreb that we will probably plant another tree in this legislative forest that will dry the second day after we plant it, i.e. After we publish it in the People's Newspaper. It will be the only result of this, not only of these one-day ones, I guess there will be others, but those who seek true justice by the basis of these changes you will see. We don't have to talk about logic or reason. In a few years, who will be convicted and who will find that justice. All I know is that every year on that same naked island, a group of 50 people who have lived through it will never experience justice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52016	We're moving on to replicas. The first came from a respected colleague, Hrvoje Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52017	Dear Vice President of the Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. My colleague, Boric, we have been listening here all day and we have been taking insults from you and from your colleagues and all day I have the impression that somehow between the ranks trying to get through the the thesis like you on this side you are great Croats, you have an exclusive right to Croatia. And on this side, we're some little Croats, I guess, some communists, we're in the lurch. And now whoever gives us the right to actually object to anything. Now, I'd like to ask you if you could tell me how small of the big Croats are. Could the great Croats have been the ones who during the Homeland War while the boys were dying in front, while they were wounded at the same time getting rich and loaded their pockets. Maybe it's the big Croats, I don't know, maybe you'll explain. I also think that you will not be able to manipulate the Croatian public and that this approach actually offends the minds of all Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52018	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52019	Yeah, I was really trying to figure out what you were gonna say. If I honestly cited an event concerning this subject, five kilometers from here, 35 centimeters underground, 29 high school kids were shot in the head. What's the problem? Of what? What's the problem? So who's talking about big and small Croats? So let us have the right to our own opinion The time has passed completely, so allow me. [[Intruding Stazić: A fellow without a throw.]] Well, I guess we're not gonna go back to Goli Island for what we're thinking. Well, I'm not, thank God, the '90s are gone. And let us have the right to think, let us have the right to say, that we have the right to propose. Did we suggest? We did. Did you say you liked it? Why should we like everything you suggest? By which law it is. Why should we like the blackmail that says you're either for or you're protecting criminals? What are these approaches? So what are we really not supposed to say in this House? Well, people have chosen us to talk, I'm saying, I'm getting ready, I'm not throwing out sucks. But the story of thefts, of big and small Croats, they will always spin around in this part and someone will potentiate them because there is no solution to the other, and that is a life problem. And I said at the beginning of my debate I wish we had discussed strategic investments today. But you insist on discussing political issues, i.e. Let's say some constitutional changes that will solve everything. And I cited examples of a constitutional change that didn't solve anything. Well, if that's it, then that's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52020	Second replica, colleague Zdravko Ronko.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52021	Comrade Boric, here I have listened very carefully to what you said and 90% of this can be signed because I am personally and familyly interested that any such crime can be ideologically and sanctioned. But the truth God, I've been listening here all day today, and we'd be in for a lift, but we're not cut out. We'd be in favor of amending the Constitution, but we're not in favour of amending the Constitution. Maybe it should have been more specific to say, that we are to abolish the outdated, we are to change the Constitution or we are not. And I'd like to hear it from you. If I am to abolish the statute of limitations, I am to change the Constitution. If that's what it is, here's the excuse.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52022	Replication response, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52023	I'm now in my own replica in conflict with a colleague who understood it differently. So he was talking about big and small Croats, and now you say we said, so we did, so we didn't. Well, we've made it clear what we're for. Did we say we're out of date? But let's make a suggestion, too. This debate is the result of a poorly prepared proposal and way of entering constitutional changes. Will you admit it? Has anyone ever entered history this way in a debate? What do you wonder? What do we have to be surprised about? Who has been prepared so beautifully into constitutional changes, that perhaps we are all talking about the same subject in a different way. Just come take it or leave it, it's all the time. Vote for the principal or don't vote, but we'll say you can't even tell who he is, who he might be. We'll pick it ourselves, count it ourselves, put it all on our own. Well, democracy isn't it. Democracy is a procedure. This procedure has gone wrong from the beginning. That's my feeling. Maybe I'm wrong. I'm not a legal expert, but as a citizen, I recognize what's good and what's not, and the result is that we've been discussing the launch of a decision for nine hours to get into these changes at all. And what happens when those changes come, I don't know. But it's my fault. And if by the time that decision starts, we have no right to say anything, we should just nod our heads, and then you got the wrong address. Well, here's the truth, I'm saying it, and we're all condemning a crime. Well, we're not gonna say we're not going to condemn it. What does that change in practice? I asked my colleague Anticevic, she can't answer. How are we going to bring this man who lives in Belgrade into our system here and condemn him for what he did on the naked island? Not at all. Not at all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52024	Third replica, colleague Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52025	Dear Boris, you are in the debate today, and many of you are not only here today in the debate on your part there hall and in the public you are trying to insist on all the political killings, for here's the Goli island you mention, partisan crimes also impute and accuse us from SDP that we are protecting it, that we are simply protecting it, because of such maltenes we are co-responsible, etc. I'm sorry, no one from the SDP, no one here in this bench, no one from the SDP leadership was in that party that founded Goli Island, which founded UDBA, OZNA in then, etc. And no one from this SDP was in those units and units that killed people without trial and '45. And later, no one. And don't impute us to that sort of thing. But your president, the first president of HDZ, was in that party back then. We didn't, none of us were even in that party. ... When the UDJA was founded, OZNA '46. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The naked island, etc. In that party, none of us here, none of us from the top of the SDP was. Your first president was in that party at the time. So much so that it's known for historical truth. So stop accusing us of that. We have no reason to make any crime, especially a political crime and even a Partisan... Neither of us nor I personally, and the Partisans killed my grandfather without a court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And why would I protect that? But it also doesn't need to be protected by whoever did it in '92. And '66. and any time. Anyone who's killed someone from politics and any other disgusting initiatives should be answered. And that's why this amendment to the Constitution is, and therefore, if you are to do so unconditionally support the change of the Constitution, unconditionally. No, we're in. Support this clearly and loudly that's where you'll simply show your... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52026	Time. Answer, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52027	Thank you. My colleague Jelusic, in my debate, did not say that you were protecting as a party crime. I merely cited history, and she writes on wikipedia, writes to you here I will tell you, created from the Social Democratic Wing of the Croatian Communist Union, so she changed her name to the Party of Democratic Change and went to the elections. In the first election of 75 seats. When the Social Democratic Party became a party to democratic change in other elections, 7% and only a few mandates. It's a fact, it says here, so I didn't write it. If you've identified yourself in this, that's your problem. But to speak, and for 20 years it's been running through the media, through the public, etc. that those who were at that time and active were members of the Croatian Communist Union. They can be even better Democrats than those who were nothing, who had no chance of being anything. And that they always have special rights that everyone has to protect is wrong for me. So let's give this little man who wasn't there, who just felt the anger of that system on his back if he was already like that. I've lived in it for 18 years. What am I supposed to say? Was it nice or was it better? No, I'll never say that. Because then the meaning of fighting for this country would completely disappear. This country is better than what we had. And this arrangement is better because we can speak openly here today. That's when it ended up on the naked island because you thought something wrong. Those were brave decisions. Someone was bringing them in. Why did he bring them? Because he thought they were right. Shall we condemn them? We all condemn them here. Shall we bring some justice to justice? I'm afraid these changes will bring justice to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52028	Time. Followed by the replica Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52029	Thank you very much, Vice President. Well, my colleague, Boric, you mentioned a moment ago true justice. True justice says crime is a crime, and I think we all know that's what we're all thinking here. It's a matter of political will. We're ready to clear up and you can see that. From your discussion, from discussion, and from most members of your side, it looks like we're justifying crimes on this side, it looks like we're supporting crimes, protecting someone. However, I must disappoint you here because we actually feel the same way. The victim's a colleague's victim. I, like the Social Democrats, went to bow down to the victims of Daxa, light a candle and pray. Also, as deputy mayor of the city of Dubrovnik, I supported the Dax Association and very much helped to unearth those victims and bury them properly. Therefore, a fellow victim is a victim and families deserve to be abolished from old age because it is a civilizational step, and therefore we have clearly defined ourselves. And you need to accept that. And by the way, Wikipedia says Ivo Sanader was also the president of the HDZ. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52030	Reply to the replica of counterpart Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52031	Comrade Bonačić, we all condemn any crime, it is not at all controversial all day. That's what we said we're about to abolish the statute of limitations. Did we say that? But we heard a second opinion, please accept it without blackmail as counterpart Jelusic says. Don't even say anything, don't suggest anything. What would you suggest at all, and we're just starting to watch out, we're just moving out. But what would you have the right to suggest? Is that normal for you as a socialist? Is that normal for you? Well, you're just a moment ago. [[The intruder understands.]] We in Croatia have beautiful islands and Dax and Goli Island, as well as Brijuni. Everyone on Brijuni flies there, it's nice there. Tito loved Brijuni and he did whatever he wanted there. He made beautiful villas there, there's a museum there today for him, etc., and on another island, on the Golo Island he made a prison. And there were some people who went through a heavy torture. Many have lost their lives. How did the system deal with that? You want me to tell you? Come to Goli Island and see how the system condemned this crime. It's all devastated, stolen, gone to forget that there once was something in that form. And don't be nervous. Everything's okay. This day's gonna end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52032	But your time has ended for a reply to the replica, so we will now hear the replica of Sasa Djujic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52033	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Boric, I have listened carefully to your debate from beginning to end and I am not nervous and can notice that it is seen from your discussions that you really read a lot because your performances are dramaticly inspired. However, I would ask you another question, I will not politicise now, I will not return to the discussions that revolve today all day, but I want to notice one fact, which is that since we have our country our Croatian state in the last 22 years almost 20 years in power in that country is HDZ. And I agree with your debate, and it's terrible what happened on the Gol Island, and it's scary this story of yours 30m from Ban Jelačić Square, but it's a terrible story to me what you've been doing for 20 years in this country, and why haven't you prosecuted all these crimes, why haven't you started investigating both the Golog island and about the suicides and everything that's been going on? Not to say if you hadn't done it in the 1990s because it was war that you could have done it for the last 8 years, that your president today was one of the top people of the machine who was about to conduct investigations and process all these things. But no, today when the ruling majority finally proposes amendments to the constitution that would end all the outdated you're against, you're all against it and you're arguing in a way that we're fighting for the introduction of a statute of limitations, not for antiquity to be abolished. I really don't get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52034	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52035	Well, there's a lot of things you don't understand because you don't want to be clear about it. And that's why you've been trying to manipulate this whole time because you think it's a benefit to the citizens. Okay. As far as dramaturgy I have a teacher here Mr. Stazic is incomparable and I try to take from him at least that part of that good part if he doesn't get angry. I know he's writing satires. He could write those two years from now, but he won't. He preferred the HDZ time, that's all. And to your question why isn't something, so why didn't you consider it from 2000 to 2003? Well, that's those questions why it's not something. So let's go now. But let me make a suggestion. Can we suggest? May we suggest? Is that a problem? Is there a problem, Mr. Vice President, that we suggest something?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52036	The microphone is yours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52037	My colleague Shakespeare has explained everything nicely, very clearly and clearly, and anyone who wants to accept it well willfully will understand it. If the point is to manipulate the public and all these events, then we'll do what you do. But that you're going to impose an attitude on us or that you're going to protect us from crime, we're not going to agree to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52038	I thank you both for the compliments you gave me that I'm a good dramatist and that I'm attacking HDZ. And now we're going to hear the replica of a colleague of Damir Malacan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52039	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleague Boric, I have also listened to your epic historical hints very, very carefully, although I did not understand their meaning, but at one point you said a huge ugly sentence, which is how we feel the pressure of our biological ideological ancestors and how we feel the pressure of their terrible heritage. From what right do you, Mr. Boric and what you know about my biological ancestors and what you know about their ideology and what you have to talk about. You have no idea about that, Mr. Boric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52040	You haven't heard from your colleague, Boric. Now you've picked up the plate when it's finished replicating.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52041	So let me answer, what. How many times did someone not answer, so he answered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52042	No, I'm sorry, we have a Rules of Procedure, and here's a colleague of the Shakespeares to explain to you the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the last debate, but that is not why a less important colleague, Miroslav Tudjman. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52043	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So I would start by agreeing with the the thesis said by counterpart Anticevic-Marinovic, first that the most disgusting crimes committed on behalf of the state on behalf of the people or politics and the other thesis she said that crimes could happen in the democratic system are politically motivated. However, if it were to be consistently in that position, then the draft amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia would begin with the resolutions of the Council of Europe and the EU parliament on the condemnation of totalitarian systems, including fascism, Nazism and communism, as well as the Declaration of the Croatian Parliament on the condemnation of totalitarian systems, there is no such thing. And that's the whole time that conviction wants to get around and doesn't want to be adopted and accepted. Then what's the problem? The problem is the categorization of crime. On the one hand, we claim to throw out ideology, every murder is a murder, and a crime is a crime. It is by sacrifice and by what was happening, but the dimensions of this crime, the values of which society behaves and how it behaves against the perpetrators of these crimes are not the same. The killings committed by political initiatives come from Article 31(4) of the word "prescribed by law" and I will now read to you, "No outdated crimes of war profiteering, nor criminal acts from the process of conversion and privatisation committed at the time of the Homeland War and peaceful reintegration, war and immediate threat, independence, territorial integrity of the state prescribed by law.". And now it means these crimes from political initiatives at the time of the Homeland War. This follows from the construction of this sentence as proposed by the entry of this paragraph. Therefore, the finding itself raises the question of the time period to which it wants to extend. Because it's not just 40 or more years back than 40 or more years in advance. And knowing the art of a lawyer how to then manipulate the kind of formula that's here. On the other hand, why the problem is to admit that there are also crimes committed in totalitarian systems because it's one category of crime, the victims are the same. That's what we need, I think I've already said in one replica not because it's possible to condemn the perpetrators because most of them are not alive, so it won't be possible to do so, but because of the victims, it's necessary to say so in order to also conduct judicial proceedings to rehabilitate victims who are very often convicted as criminals, criminals, etc. what wasn't there, which wasn't like that, but they were victims of that totalitarian system. On the other hand, if you put in a formula that these were murders or serious murders committed by political riots. What will happen to those terrorist crimes that are not from political initiatives but from economic or other. Then what are we going to do about it? Therefore, we need far more precise processing and precision of these crimes as far as these are concerned. And that's why it's a prank to claim that we are against these convictions, abolishing obsolescence rather than simply warning of a series of these things that should be done to make sense. Speaking of which, and since he said here on behalf of the Proposer Grgin, suggest we see what you're saying, what you're suggesting is that we get into the law. To the amendments to the Constitution. I have already warned here that here when obsolescence, non-deprecatation, acts of war profit, as well as crimes from the process of conversion and privatisation are again beginning since the Homeland War. What about the conversion that started in 88th year under the Law of Ante Markovic? What was it then, and there was no priory by definition there was no crime to be punished? On the other hand, I think that someone was talking here today from a hypocrite how to call this article 45. The constitution where it is forced to, means that Croatian citizens abroad can only vote in the DKPs. That I can only vote in diplomatic consular offices. It is a direct detachment of their rights and opportunities to choose, that they may vote, i.e. fundamental human rights. And that the Constitution determines that only three MPs can be elected on that basis. This matter does not belong to the constitutional law at all, but this matter is part of the electoral law. And this is the result of a certain time and a certain hypocrisy and certain settlements in order to make individual interests aside now that by the same logic I think about 750 thousand people are wiped out of the list. That's not what it's called, but they're de facto prevented from going to the polls. And then where is the logic of protection and fundamental human rights? And that's exactly what this is about. It's not a return to history. History can't live. But here we are working on what values this modern Europe has adopted, which we have agreed to whether we will accept them too or ignore them for this or that reason. Because if we accept these values then that system is formed in one way, and if we don't accept them then it will be shaped in a completely different way. And it seems to me that in this sense the formulation that has been proposed means that the condemnation of these has no statute of limitations, not only for the severe killings of political initiatives, I think it should remain but also that there is no statute of limitations for political killings by totalitarians and to name or all, or the communist Yugoslav regime.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52044	Thank you. We're moving on to a replica that's eight. The first is a colleague, Igrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52045	My dear colleague, you end your speech to judge the crimes committed during the totalitarian system during the communist system. But you say you're very good at interpreting me, but you judge me for it, says you're about to judge and you're talking, you're not... that word of crime and what was done in '91. Yeah. Yeah. Because crime is a crime. But you're right when you say all crimes don't have the same weight and connotation, but it's not our place to judge here. This will determine the degree of guilt in each procedure and adequately determine the sanctions. But we are here to create one framework, to raise to the constitutional level to allow our judiciary to judge all those who killed, Ustashas from the Ustasha movement, from Partisan and those who did not belong to any crime are often to conceal and there you are right, the favor of God that was committed from political motives. Unfortunately, while other defenders were defending themselves on the line, where they defend themselves on the battlefield, and you have those who killed in houses to move into such an apartment. No one in Zadar has been prosecuted for it yet, and the public discussion of who did it. And we want them to be convicted as well. And I will agree with many who have spoken here, and I believe that you agree that it is difficult to reach metric witnesses because each such murder is conspired by this one conspiracy, one conspiracy of silence. And what we're proposing, you say from political motives, and what about those from the economics that have been done. This also allows this proposal to be complemented by the government, out of benefit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52046	Time. Comrade Ingrid, time's up. The replica matches a colleague named Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52047	Thank you. I didn't say at any point that we shouldn't judge these crimes or skip these crimes from the '90s. Or '91. years on here. That's your interpretation, I didn't say that. However, I said and I just said that this should remain, and I added that other crimes from economic initiatives can be done, which should also be condemned, and that this formulation is not enough for that. So that's one thing. And you've only been fixed for this time since the '90s. in here because you didn't mention a single crime before that. The point is, you're either alone or here, you're talking about biology that does its own, it just works. So if we don't go for it, we take the formulas to condemn these crimes during the communist regime, then we won't give satisfaction to the victims of that system just because there are no more perpetrators. And all of you together or if you want to send the wrong message in this case because the first thing you did last year you gave up patronage over Bleiburg means those crimes you committed after the war ended.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52048	Replica, colleague Petar Baranovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52049	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear fellow Tudjman, yes, indeed we have the right respect for this subject, I will dare say that although it may cause reactions, this debate today would take much shorter and would be focused on the accuracy of these constitutional changes because every normal citizen who dreamed and dreamed of a democratically arranged state is interested in setting the right criteria in society. And it opens up some dilemmas to me by listening to today's debates, including yours, and it opens up a dilemma that it is possible that 20 and more years after the formation of democratic Croatia and the establishment of the first Constitution we have ever found ourselves in this situation. How could it have been promoted and failed to do what we're talking about today? How could it have been possible that my former president, including my current president, was guarding and guarding someone who was found or suspected at all, I don't want to give qualifications, that he committed such serious crimes. How is it possible to know that such people are passing top security checks? I am interested among other things because I do not distinguish the sites, for me all the sites, from Bleiburg, Ovčara, Golog Otok, Jasenovac, Škabrnje and Varivoda, are the same sites. I'm interested and I want answers to questions not only about who committed the so-called. We're interested in the HNS who committed the most serious murders in the world. It was supposed to be a focus of debate, not a push with historical facts or semi-creation during today's day. Whoever killed Blaž Kraljević, his escort, who killed Levar, and under what circumstances Miro Barisic died and who ordered their killings.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52050	Time. Thank you. Comrade Baranovic, time is up. The replica matches a colleague named Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52051	Quite a strange rule of government here when spoken on one side then it is the legal system that determines, who investigates, who condemns, etc. That's true when it comes to a coalition that means it's not in charge, and this is how President Tudjman was protecting the killer. That's what you said. ... That's what you said. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Full support guarding a criminal. ... The first president was guarding a criminal. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] That's what he said. ... It was a formulation. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm so, sorry if, but... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52052	My colleagues, let's act, let the man respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52053	So if we're up to that principle, then let's say what institutions are in charge of doing certain things and then let's do it. But then let's look at it in the sequence of those procedures that happen or that don't happen. The Commission for the Study of These Crimes is simply placed in one ministry. If such a commission wants to work, then it must be independent of both the ministry and the minister and I don't know what. What are the results and what are the findings of this committee? I don't know. Therefore, I am for it to be discussed in a completely different way, but then it should be prepared in another way and seriously discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52054	I thank my colleague Tudjman. The next line will be presented by respected counterpart Ivo Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52055	Comrade Tudjman, you said in your debate that what we are proposing could only apply to the period of the Homeland War. Save it, God! It's not our intention, nor did we write it. You were pulling out of part of the Constitution... that you're afraid it might only apply to that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It's not our goal. Save God and don't impute us. It's really not on our mind. There's a lot we can afford to impute, but don't do that. So, this non-obsolete crime of ours, all the serious murders are timeless. It refers to all those people who did it no matter when they did it and in the name of what they did it, in the name of politics, in the name of personal benefit, in the name of anything. So, all murders, serious murders, no matter when they're committed. About that, so much so you wouldn't. Because you know I'm half a step away from your statement to come out tomorrow, Malten, that we only advocate that it applies to the murders that were committed then. Don't do that, because first of all it's not true and because it's really not on our mind. It's another thing. You mentioned that about how we protect there and the crimes and the totalitarian system, etc. You're using Bleiburg's argument that we are no longer the patronage of the Council over Bleiburg. Comrade Tudjman, as far as I know from history, the NDH Army has surrendered to the Allied army of anti-fascist, English, British. If you need to express regret for it, you can, but I don't. Because it was a normal surrender of an army that belonged to a fascist environment, anti-fascist. But that too, I don't have any regrets for that. But I have regrets for everything that happened after hundreds, thousands of people and soldiers and also civilians from Bleiburg traveling from Slovenia participating in the Crossroad suffered. That's what a pitet needs to do, not Bleiburg and hand it over to the army.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52056	Thank you very much. The replica matches Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52057	As regards this formulation, I have read the sentence, the paragraph of the Constitution, which refers only to the time of the Homeland War and the conversion and what is put into place. I didn't say that you claimed it, but I said that knowing the art, the point was, I don't know now the formulation of these lawyers that can be wised, that it can be interpreted like that. So, in any case, whatever the formulation is, it cannot go on in this sentence, but it must be a separate item in order to avoid such delusions. On the other hand, I told Bleiburg the wrong message was sent. You can only interpret Bleiburg as an act of surrender, but Bleiburg in the Croatian public means to all those googogues that went and that you mentioned, which went after that, and you did not take any other symbol, no other gesture to mark it, and that is the wrong message, and in that sense I said it was the wrong decision, or decision with the wrong consequences because they were not dressed, which was not taken as a symbol to condemn these crimes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52058	Next replica of counterpart Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52059	Thank you very much. It's good for fellow Tudjman to mention Bleiburg, and it is a shameful statement by Mr Jelusic regarding Bleiburg, that he is proud of it. He's proud of the fact that the first day of his surrender, the students were killed in Bleiburg. The second and third classes of the Domobran flag school together with their professors, children aged 16 and 17. [[/Intruder Stazic: Who are you replicating? Hello, colleague Grubisic.]] They're 60 plus 14 professors. And as far as Mr. Tudjman is concerned, I can tell you that you have well noticed that this sentence on the amendment of the Constitution is, therefore, in the context of what is written in front, so in connection with both the Homeland War and the conversion and privatisation, etc. [[Intruding Stazić: A colleague of Grubisic!]] And it would really be good if we thought about it here to separate it, separate it, whatever you want. A new item shall be placed on the point and shall be written. So, what you suggested if that's what we're going to do. In fact, you were also talking in one section about erasing voters. Yes, they were deleted in Vrgorec, but they were not deleted in Vukovar. So somewhere they're deleted, and somewhere they're not deleted, so then we have the number of voters we have. And one more thing. When you were talking about killings, easy, hard, political. So what are we running from here to tell Kukuriku, what are we running from when we have the Council of Europe Resolution, any resolution of the European Parliament, we have the Declaration of the Croatian Parliament on the crimes of totalitarian regimes. Which is why it is not possible to get into this constitutional provision when Europe says it, and you are Europeans as far as I know. You brought us into Europe. So, which is why you can't use this formulation. So let's count fascism and Nazism and communism. Why not? Why not, if we have to name them Fascism, Nazism, Communism. They're totalitarian.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52060	Time's up, thank you very much. Now listen to me, colleague Grubisic. At the beginning of your replica, you started answering your colleague Jelusic. I tried to stop you, but I can't stop you. The Rules of Procedure do not mean anything to you, you do not respect the Croatian Parliament, you act unworthy. We have a business remark, colleague Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52061	A colleague, Grubisic, in his replica, injured his Rules of Procedure, article 235, which says he can replicate who had a basic exposure. My colleague Grubisic began to replicate to me, which is the abuse of the Rules of Procedure, but which is also human and political, too, because I don't have the opportunity to respond then and he has made accusations on my account and said false things that I didn't say. I'm asking you to hold on to that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52062	I warned my colleague Grubisic, but I didn't give him a warning because I doubt it would work educationally. Now answer the line, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52063	Thank you. It's obviously from these very remarks that are visible, so I'm not a lawyer, but when I can see that this formulation puts into the wrong weather context what you want to do without doubting the good intentions to extend it to all crimes then obviously it's proof that the whole debate isn't prepared as it belongs and that it's working on the neck on your nose. On the other hand, what you do not want to see further is that there are categories of crimes that are not, they fall into serious crimes but they are not all committed from political initiatives and therefore, and we are probably all agreed that they do not need to be outdated and therefore they should also be specified, and that is also not done. Therefore, it simply says that this debate is not prepared as it is and therefore this discussion is going on all day long as it goes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52064	Next replica, colleague Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52065	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. If I've followed my colleague Tudjman well, you've said that it is necessary to elaborate more precisely on the qualification of serious crimes than the repressive state apparatus of the former systems and the like. I'm gonna get a little attached to that. Namely, these former systems, fascism killed in the name of the supremation of the Aryan race, communism unfortunately killed its own people on behalf of that people. That's how it was in these judgments. I've been avoiding this debate all day, as well as a debate about lex Perkovic for purely emotional reasons, but it must not be forgotten, and let's just say that only two of my residents were killed by those 37 in the Federal Republic of Germany and some of these colleagues today said that crime was a crime, which was with those in '91. A year? I say, they're being processed or processed, and they've never been rewarded before. One of the people who was killed with six bullets in the back of my resident's head, the person who took part in this was directly on the street of our colleague Jurjevic in Split, who had a house and lived there until the 1990s. A year. So, rewarded for it. I am saddened by the fact that it is visible that even through this proposal the decision serves to judge a man in Croatia even though this work was done in the territory of the Federal Republic of Germany. And all day long I am saddened by this debate and reminds me of that time in the '90s and the mind of a man who knew about the history of the Croatian people and these vast divisions of this people, and this was visible today through this debate insisting on the reconciliation of the Croatian people. I think it was the right thing to do. The other thing that was mentioned here
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52066	There's no other thing, time's up. This replica is matched by counterpart Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52067	I did not just say that the crimes of totalitarian systems should be categorized, i.e. to specify the crimes of totalitarian systems, but I said that there are also politically motivated crimes in democratic systems, and therefore they should be sanctioned. However, there is when we want to talk about the future and we haven't had it yet today, but it is very likely to assume that we will also have this cyber terrorism with the consequences of killings that will not necessarily be politically motivated and therefore will not be covered by these formulations. And that is why it is possible, because we can predict what will happen, and unfortunately it will happen and happen, and especially in the EU, and then we will have to participate on this basis and cooperate with other countries if this happens elsewhere in those Member States whether it is our citizens or they are victims. These options should be foreseen. It just doesn't exist. Therefore, this policy is either taken or left simply insufficient or undeveloped and needs to be done and specified.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52068	Next up is a replica of Drazen Pandek's colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52069	Thank you, dear Vice President. Dear colleague, here I am amazed by your debate over the constitutional provision that allows the Croatian diaspora to vote only in diplomatic representations and that only three representatives can be elected to the Assembly. So you HDZ was in power at the time of these constitutional changes and your party proposed them, your party... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52070	Turn the microphone on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52071	From your debate, an uninformed observer might conclude that this coalition has brought about these changes that have left the unfortunate diaspora cut off. After each election, when he was in power during the previous period, HDZ acted as if in that previous period there was quite another party, some entirely other HDZ with which this present one has absolutely nothing to do with. And in this discussion, the debate on the right is therefore the thesis that the current government and the SDP's tendency to protect communist crimes despite the fact that this same HDZ has been in power for 18 years and has done almost nothing about this problem. Despite these changes doing exactly what HDZ failed to do in all 18 years of power. And another note, it was concluded from your debate that you believe that this proposed change will not lead to an obsolescence of crimes of benefit from economic motives, but these changes will precisely lead to this because the killings of benefit are Article 91. A criminal code defined as a serious murder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52072	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52073	To go from the end of this, it means serious crimes from economic motives, this is about obsolescence of theirs. So it's not included inside, it's one thing. On the other hand, when you talk about this article of voting that HDZ adopted it, it seems to me that it should remind me, however, that it was about amendments to the Constitution, that it was supposed to be two-thirds of the Assembly and that it was then that you would find a more polite word for blackmail that, if that vote was not voted, you would not vote for change. No matter if it's a stupid and harmful decision, it's stupid and harmful. And therefore I say and argue that this article should be changed because it is causing great damage to Croatia. You today have every day on television promotion that people, young people, students, finished experts should go to Canada, Australia, America, Germany and do nothing to keep them. The assumption that such a thing can be stopped is that at least those people living outside give some sort of connection to Croatia that they can vote for Croatia and all of the cultural and normal and smart countries are doing it. On the other hand, the the thesis that Croatia or HDZ did nothing to condemn communism is beyond any sense and crime and what has happened. So give me a little bit of what's been here with your advocacy to get out of these ideologies and start talking normally.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52074	Thank you. Next replica of my colleague, Jozo Radosh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52075	Mr. Vice President. A fellow Tudjman would tell a man that after nine hours of sitting and listening to a debate he didn't participate in that he was tired, someone would hardly believe him. Today there were indeed everything here, there were very unusual views, there were hiding attitudes, petty tactical moves on major state issues, there were forgetfulness of their own mistakes, there were views of the past, looking at biology, forgetting what happened to the biology of inheritances, etc., there were crocodile tears about discussing these topics, and not about life topics, and it was just those who shed those tears that were really imposing these topics that were irrelevant and it took a few months and it was more or less scary. But the most unusual relationship that you and your colleague Tudjman have set is the link between abolishing the age of serious murders, which is a constitutional proposal, investigating the electoral lists and erasing 750 thousand citizens from those lists in conditions where there were more voters in certain cities and municipalities of the Republic of Croatia than there were citizens. So I'm curious to know how you put that link between the heavy murder investigation of the voter lists?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52076	The replica matches Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52077	Probably the chairman should have given you a warning first because you were talking all the time about something I wasn't even talking about. Well, I don't know what that Rules of Procedure would be. On the other hand, the link is that the motioner Mr. Grbin said give you your suggestions we will classify or consider all your proposals in the debate on these amendments and additions to the Constitution. And you're obviously in pain with that finding that it was blackmail related to changes to the Constitution two years ago, so now you're surprised when someone mentions it. Therefore, the direct link is the motion that we give our suggestions on what needs to be changed in this Constitution when the issue has already been opened and I don't know why it should be surprised then unless it is the view that only what one party says can be discussed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52078	Next replica of counterpart Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52079	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Here he said that his colleague Tudjman tried to be much more constructive in his discussion than most colleagues who came from the left, and I congratulate him on that. And I would touch especially those sayings that he said that apparently some of them live out of history. You used that sentence. And I would say that I am saddened that in a debate like this, where there is one legitimate initiative of a part of the Parliament that initiates the procedure for amending the Constitution. So we here today are at the beginning of changing the procedure of changing our Constitution. I expected that there would be discussions here that would be at the level of your debate, that there would be talk of trying to correct an expression and that we wouldn't accidentally be left unpunished by some serious crime or crimes from political motives or totalitarian regimes. And I think the legitimate right of a group of MPs who have asked for such crimes not to be outdated but to be removed from obsolescence. We talked here today more to emotions than to ducks. Obviously if we want to develop Croatia in, according to democracy, we must face both left and right sides with our past. This way when you talk about topics like this, we're always in some kind of past tense. This does not give certainty because I will now mention the beginning of the Homeland War when the then president of the Croatian state tried to reconcile both sides. Apparently 23 years have gone to the wind and apparently are still Croatian society on such topics is too divided to think that it is not good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52080	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52081	Thank you. Here you should probably add that exactly the time when you tried on the unity of both sides, or all the options of reconciliation, to work that we were then the most successful. As far as this is concerned, the more I said, I said that you don't live on history, but also that one who hasn't learned anything from history says a Latin proverb that he's condemned to repeat it. And this isn't about the past. And I agree with you that we need to find a common language rather than the value of building a future. And that's the key to the problem. However, this, this debate I think should have been conducted first in other circumstances, prepared solidly and only then come to the Assembly and the parliamentary debate on it. And that's why it's wrong to accuse the opposition that we spent today, I don't know how many hours you said or someone else on this debate, simply because it wasn't thoroughly prepared.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52082	Ivana Posavec The culprit of the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52083	Thank you. Dear fellow Tudjman, I will quote: "Who is the problem in admitting the crimes of totalitarian regimes.". It's a sentence from your debate. So who's the colleague that's the problem? You're asking who? I ask why. We don't, the signatories of this initiative are certainly not the problem. And we don't have a problem because we think we're just getting to know our past and today this debate is very inspired by history, we've all been able to learn from it, we've mentioned a lot here, the various victims that have happened, the various crimes that have occurred, the various victims that have fallen and the various crimes that have happened, we've also remembered the Google of the Island and some other things. We didn't think of perhaps one Croatian Zrin, a historical Croatian Zrin, which is the same great crime that took place 70 years ago. But we're not here to measure these crimes. We're here to create an institutional framework so that these crimes could be prosecuted if they happened because the crime is a crime and the victim is a victim. And as that old saying puts it, justice may be slow sometimes, but it's available.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52084	The answer to the line by Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52085	Thank you. Well, I'm glad to hear this here that it's no problem to admit the crimes of totalitarian systems. If that's how it is then I don't see the reason I already said that in the proposal for this draft change should be included, these declarations to come from them, condemn the totalitarian system. Then I also don't see why it's a problem to get into crime categories and totalitarian crimes. Then why is that a problem? This does not undo the crimes of all those who have occurred since the creation of the democratic state of Croatia and beyond. So obviously if that's not the problem then there's no reason not to accept it and bring it in, and if the problem is to accept it, then this finding of yours doesn't stand. I would like to believe that such a problem is not available and that you will then accept what the HDZ has proposed. Because we don't have any problems against this conviction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52086	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52087	Thank you very much. Dear Representative Boris Kovacic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52088	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Madam Deputy with an associate, ladies and gentlemen. Here's a special thank you, I mean ladies and gentlemen representatives. I thank you for staying, and here you are going to listen to me. And I'm particularly happy, but finally a nice debate if I may say so about young people. And first of all, one big consensus, it makes me happy. And on the other hand, I thank you all for taking part in the debate. You know what you did to my ego? You reminded me of my youth. Well, that's beautiful! You reminded me of those early high school days when we started a youth club that was a step up for that time and you woke up again my beautiful memories that I'm wearing from that time. I really appreciate that. When it was necessary for Mrs. Glavak to check on the Internet, I don't look like a Roman. But believe me, I've had a good part of this afternoon and almost all night I was the oldest representative in this room. When the president comes back, I'm not sure anymore. I hope you don't mind giving me this little introduction, but we've earned the young and thank you and Ivana for saying that we're all here. [[You look like a Roman, not a Roman.]] I like to talk about these topics. A little bit of seriousness, though. It was said in the introduction, at clubs, on committees if I'm not mistaken, not at clubs I don't know, but on committees, but in this debate, the law didn't bring it back to life. I've been mayor for 13 years, I don't brag about it, but I've gained housing experience and I can confirm, and believe me, I haven't obstructed the formation of the Youth Council, but we've formed it in my city only from another attempt. And that was, you know, a little light dose, so here's what we did. I'm thinking about it, and then we can imagine other units of local self-government and this one where it's not even formed at all, so it's absolutely just an extra smigwort to me to support myself and the promoter and all of you who spoke today about the need to improve this law and that's what seems to me the most valuable. But I'd still draw attention to one thing. That's what I wanted to especially thank you for staying here to listen to me, and I'm only going to say one sentence of truth a little bit dilated with two, three commas. When we speak in the part where we define the selection procedure of the Youth Council, although here is a distinguished colleague on behalf of the club who spoke and supported it, I am still a little suspicious with the fact that first of all I welcome this newspaper of informal associations, an absolutely good thing and perhaps it will trigger these processes. Well, here I may be naively hoping in local self-government units where no advice has been set up yet, but I am still holding back and staying a little reserved on the proposal that political party promoters are also. In this I think and fear indoctrination and even more instrumentalisation of young people. Although I know you're going to jump me with questions as to whether both indoctination and instrumentalization of young people can be done in another way, indirectly. Yeah, but here's where I'm staying pretty reserved, or if it were up to me, I'd stay on those old provisions. I would eliminate political parties here as an authorised promoter. Now here's the last point, or there's no point anymore, now is the point. Mr. President, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52089	Thank you, Your Honor. One replica, respected representative Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52090	Dear counterpart Kovačić, I rarely have to admit to replicating especially with my clubmates, but it seems to me that this whole debate throughout the entire assembly, through all parties, went in a different way that we were really good at discussing the law, so I'm also reporting to you on the line. Several long-term research on young people was conducted in Croatia. So over a few years they've been doing the same things and it's shown that actually when we look at youth organisations, where they're the most neglected to say so in some kind of public action it's actually about political shifts. Although the number of young people they cover through their work is one of the larger ones. Youth associations can report to these or those, they're profiled, they're looking differently. The springs of political parties that do not have their own legal personality, which are indeed somewhat dependent on the party to the party. So this same research shows significant differences, have more or less independence. In fact, if they are not given any meaningful or even public content that is proposed here through the actual advice of young people, they are not incubators of political elites that are actually supposed to be, but become voting machines like this or like that. And that seems to me a good reason and reason to include them in this way through the Youth Council. If in society there was awareness of the need to involve young people so that young people who are politically engaged through membership would normally pass the path through their parties and be as council members, the council members would be elected to the representative bodies. Then I'd be the first to kick them out of the Youth Council. But actually, these young people who are in the springs are usually except for a few parties there are really exceptions that I'm not speaking on my party's terms right now. They are indeed one of the more difficult positions compared to other organized forms of youth. Representatives of NGOs of young people agree with this provision. However, we have concluded in many of these discussions. I thank and apologize.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52091	Thank you, too. You haven't answered. [[I'll say it anyway. And I didn't answer.]] Thank you very much. We've exhausted the log-in list. On behalf of the motionary, respected Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52092	Thank you, well-respected President, distinguished MPs and MPs. Well, on behalf of the legislator of this law, we can really be overjoyed by this debate. Thank you very much for all your suggestions, thank you very much for your interest. We will consider all your suggestions and suggestions very carefully. Here I call upon you to support the proposed law. And now he's only got half a minute to do one thing. I am glad that there is still a representative of König and representative Lugarić here. In fact, at one point, there was a theme about voting rights, age limits, and let me read you a question. To what extent do you agree with the proposal to give young people 16 years of age the active right to vote in local elections? I agree, and I completely agree with 25%. This was just one question from research funded by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth, which will be very soon and I am taking this opportunity to announce to you, which will be announced very quickly. The age structure of 15 to 29 years of life. There is also a lack of interpretation and research on the needs, problems and potential of young people in Croatia, and based on this research, we will work on our new National Youth Programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52093	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Since it's too late, and young people we've glued to TVs listening to this debate now we're going to conclude the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We will stop working today and announce a follow-up tomorrow at 9.30 p.m. on the 6th item of the established agenda Report on the work of the Ombudsman for 2012 which we will jointly process with the 2012 Report on Discriminations of Discrimination and the 2012 Report on the conduct of the activities of the National Prevention Mechanism. Three points will be united and tomorrow we will begin to discuss it. Good night. Proposal for a decision on accession, amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with a proposal for a draft amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. The debate is closed. I am voting on the proposal for a decision on accession to amend the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to... I'll just read it for a second, read it. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I'm putting it to the vote, so... Have, word, good. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] In what, let's hear it? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Come on, come on, come on, come on,
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52095	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. There are no business conditions for including this point in the agenda. In accordance with Article 60 of the Treaty on the Functioning of Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament item 1. 5. The Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System in the procedure of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia prepares proposals for appropriate acts. So far, in all the amendments to the Constitution, always in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System established proposals for appropriate acts, as in the first phase of the decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution, in the second phase of the decision to establish a draft amendment of the Constitution and in the third phase to access the amendment of the Constitution. The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system did not establish a proposal for a decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution. He failed to do so and the Croatian Parliament cannot debate without the relevant decision of the Constitution Committee which, in the process of amending the Constitution, prepares proposals for appropriate acts. I therefore ask that this vote on this proposal be removed from the agenda until the Committee on the Constitution makes a decision, a proposal for a decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52096	Dear Representative, the Croatian Parliament has just considered a decision prepared by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system and the initiative to change the Constitution. And that's exactly what we're deciding. And you just have behind this to approach a change of conclusion what the board should do after the debate we had and about this, the draft decision and other suggestions, the remarks and what I know. It's in the agenda, it's all right. We are just deciding on this decision prepared by the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure, the political system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52097	Please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52098	Here's some more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52099	It is not true, the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure and the political system has not prepared a proposal for a decision to, on the accession of, the amendment of the Constitution. He sent a report from his session of the Constitutional Committee. In this report, the Report on objections to the Proposal for a Decision on Accession and amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Draft Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the conclusion if the Croatian Parliament adopts a decision on the accession and amendment of the Constitution is tasked by the President, etc. The Committee on the Constitution is in accordance with the procedure, which was so until the '90s, '97, 2000, 2001, 2010, is always without exception to the Committee on the Constitution, Mr President, and you were often both president and vice president and member of the Committee always regularly established the proposal for decision-making of the relevant acts in the process of amending the Constitution. Please, let's stick to the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52100	Dear Representative, thank you for your grades, but I must repeat, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament as a competent body has considered the initiative of the Group of Representatives and established the draft decision we have discussed today. ... We can't argue anymore, we'll decide now, we'll decide by voting. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Anything we can go on, we can't argue like that anymore. In the name of the club... What? [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Break, break? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52101	Your Honor, Mr. President, here, and for your reasons, I will point out that I am one of the members of this committee that is being discussed here, we are asking on behalf of the HDZ Club for a 20-minute break to be seen about this agenda item.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52102	You got it. You'll get 10 minutes. It's 10, 21. In 10, 35... It's all right. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] HDZ, good [[Intruder: President for the same reasons.]] HDSSB. [[Aggression: HDSSB.]] SDP club. ... And the SDSS. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] All right, I'll see you at 10.35. Thank you very much. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 10.35 HOURS]] I urge the representative of the HDZ Club of Honored Representative Vladimir Seks to state the club's position.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52104	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. We want the principle of respect for the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament to be respected. In all the changes and amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia since the 1990s, '97, 2000, 2001, 2010, in all cases when proposing amendments to the Constitution of a fifth of MPs, the President of the Republic or the Government have submitted a proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution in a certain direction. This has always been included in the agenda of the session of the Croatian Parliament. After the session was held on the agenda, the debate took place. This was the case when a group of 46 MPs submitted a proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution. Later, the government also joined that other direction. A debate took place Wednesday at a session of the Croatian Parliament. After that debate, as in all previous cases mentioned by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, in accordance with Article 60(1), paragraph 5. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament which reads: In the process of amending the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system prepares proposals for appropriate acts. In accordance with that provision of the Rules of Procedure, following the debate held at the meeting of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system were to prepare a proposal for a decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution and, then, on the basis of such a proposal, the Croatian Parliament would vote to approach the amendment of the Constitution. Instead, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system have made no mistake and has not established a proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution but has sent a report to the President of the Croatian Parliament on the discussion of the objections to the Proposal for a Decision on Accession of the Amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia with the Proposal for a Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and reached conclusions, quote: 1. If the Croatian Parliament adopts a Decision on the Accession of the Amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the chair of the Committee shall be obliged to carry out consultations on the establishment of the Working Group and 2. When preparing the draft text, the Change Working Group will consider any observations, so if.... The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system should have made it very simple and clear, precisely at its session, to establish a proposal for a decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution. He did not do so and therefore has no business basis for voting on the proposal to approach the amendment of the Constitution but should stop and the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system should make its decision to approach the amendment of the Constitution. If this is not done then it will mean that we will stick to the famous sentiments of Joseph Broz Tito, who was in '72. After major fractures in Karadjordjevo and numerous criminal proceedings against members of the Croatian Spring, he told the public prosecutors not to stick to the paragraph as a drunk plate. We should stick to the parameters, not to the fullest of Marshal Tito.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52105	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB club, respected representative Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52106	Thank you, President-in-Office of the Parliament. My colleagues and fellow MPs. Members of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system are all lawyers more or less. I was present on behalf of the HDSSB Club representative at last session of the Constitution Committee where after the debate was held in the Croatian Parliament on draft proposals and the launch of amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, we held a debate and concluded that the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system would continue to discuss all the proposals presented during the debate in the assembly. The HDSSB Club also sent again, in writing to the chairman of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system, so our views on the enlargement of constitutional changes in terms of the conclusions of the debate held in front of the representatives' clubs. That lawyers can speak differently about the same and interpret the same, but in a different way either of the authentic not authentically we know that we are dealing with legal professions. What is important for the HDSSB today, we will vote in favour of starting the constitutional procedure because we were present on the Committee on the Constitution where, with all 12 votes, it is unanimously supported by the conclusion of the Constitution Committee in two parts. In the first part, therefore, if the Croatian Parliament after the debate was held, the debate was held, it would reach a conclusion on the launch of constitutional changes, which today is on the agenda of this session and the vote on that point. Secondly, given the expansion and attitudes of the representatives' clubs above all we have officially explained this, we have been given the opportunity to establish a working group on the Committee on the Constitution. The working group will consider, that is also the obligation under point two, all views, of all the representatives of the clubs that were presented at last week's debate, which will also be brought forward in the follow-up procedure, namely the spread of this substance in terms of constitutional changes. It is therefore important for us to make a decision, given that the views of all the clubs in the debate are respected. We were invited to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the Political System, and we believe that, under Article 60, this is paragraph 4 and not the 5th that the conditions for voting on the procedure for the implementation of constitutional changes have been met, and yet again stressing that the task of the task of the working group, which will be done by all representatives of the Clubs of Representatives and members of the Constitutional Committee, is to consider those proposals which have been tabled in the debate, and that is also to extend the procedure of constitutional changes to those proposals that we put before the HDSSB Representatives Club and who presented colleagues in front of the other Clubs of Representatives. Therefore, the HDSSB club will vote in favour of launching the constitutional change process. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52107	Thank you, Your Honor. It is up to the SDP advocates' club and the respected representative of Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52108	Thank you, Mr. President. Fellow Members and colleagues, pursuant to Article 147. The Constitution has the right to propose a change to the Constitution with one-fifth of the MPs in the Assembly, not the Constitution Committee, one-fifth of the MPs in the Assembly. In accordance with the above, on 11 July 2013, a group of SDP representatives proposed to adopt a Decision on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. That decision states that it is in charge of the Constitutional Committee that, in accordance with Article 60(3), paragraph 3 and 4. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament after making this decision which we believe will be prepared today for any further decisions necessary to implement the procedure of change and to change the Constitution. A colleague, Shakespeare, spoke about a meeting of the Constitution Committee that took place the other day. However, he forgot that the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament held its 48th session on 2 October 2013 at which he discussed, discussed and subsequently supported the decision to approach the changes of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. So, the Committee on the Constitution discussed this decision and proposed to the Croatian Parliament. There's no dispute. The decision has been available on the Croatian Parliament's website for 23 days. All the MPs also got her on the bench. I'm sorry they didn't take care, they weren't careful. Probably some of them took that paper and put it where they put off the papers they don't read, but the fact is, we all got it. After that, this week on Wednesday, indeed at our 50th session, we discussed all the proposals, the remarks that came. We didn't have to, we didn't have to do it, but we felt it was necessary to take such an important topic as the change of the Constitution once more debate. And on this subject, we all came together to the session, by consensus of all 12 members of the Constitutional Committee, to the conclusions of our colleague Seks and colleagues, Salapic. There were no objections, no problems, and today there are. Well, then I am free to interpret today that this remark is an obstruction and another desire to prevent the Croatian Parliament from changing the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia and abolishing the statute of limitations for all serious murders, and such an initiative is well-respected colleagues in my opinion regrettable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52109	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Honored Representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52110	... 36 paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure. [[Specially enabled.]] The Rules of Procedure of one Insinuation have been injured, that these objections are the procedural nature which the HDZ Representatives Club suggests are to calculate on the obstruction of constitutional changes. In fact, the other way around. The procedure of the Committee on the Constitution and the Chairman of the Committee on the Constitution will lead, in a further instance, to the sabotage of constitutional changes. Therefore, it is not calculated to avoid the adoption of constitutional provisions. I note once again that in all the amendments to the Constitution that I have participated in since the 1990s, the same procedure has always been respected where the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system have laid down the proposals for decisions relating to the amendment of the Constitution. It wasn't done here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52111	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Agent Shakespeare. It's more difficult to qualify as you said. It would also not comply with the Rules of Procedure unless the obstruction is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You were talking about sabotage, it's a difficult qualification. Therefore, there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure. These are the grades that MPs can make, you know that. Just like you said now it's sabotage. We're going on behalf of the SDSS Club, the esteemed representative, Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52112	Dear Mr. President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and representatives of the Croatian Parliament. I thought I'd say something else when I showed up, but inspired by what I've heard in the debate so far, especially the recollection of a historical circumstance from our closer history to the Karadjorgian story I remembered a story that has some distant connection to that story. Namely, one daughter of a prominent politician from that time, I can tell you the name and last name of Mika Špiljak, was reportedly asked by her father in a private conversation when her father started nagging at the appearance of older characters on TV and told you what these old ladies were still holding onto then she told him, so how come you, why don't you, why don't you retire, so how will you know when it's time to retire? And he told her, you see that closet over there, when I can't get it out in front of the house, I'm going to retire. Now, listening to this debate for the past few days, I've been myself, I'm not sure about the closet, but one thing I'm sure, when I start to forget what I did and when I see what I was doing, two days ago, or when I notice that I can't be too careful about the discussions I'm in, then I'll decide to retire. I have already warned of this phenomenon at meetings of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. Because it happens to us not to hear one another, not to understand one another, and now it happens to us to forget how we voted, what we discussed and what decisions we made in this regard. It is true that all 12 members and members of the Committee on the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament who participated in the debate two days ago and voted unanimously for what we are talking about here today. We voted in favour of the proposal for the Croatian Parliament to initiate the decision on amendments to the Constitution. And in the report that we received from the board president, that's what it stands for, and that's the conclusion. Now, if someone wants to interpret it differently, and if someone's drunk with whom I don't have too much experience, they want to give priority over the parameters and by their own decision, that's a different story. But this Parliament shouldn't be burdened with that. This is too serious a matter, most clubs in the Croatian Parliament have taken the job of creating the assumption that the Croatian Parliament is making a decision to initiate the procedure for amending the Constitution. One club is still looking for, a significant, important, respectable club of this House, looking for space to do so. I'm just saying, fellow Shakespeare, this is not the best way to find space for the HDZ club. It is the best way to lose the club in the impasse of constitutional and legal changes in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52113	We have two reported injuries to the Rules of Procedure. First breach of the Rules of Procedure, respected representative Vladimir Seks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52114	Mr. President, Article 236 concerning Article 238, MP Milorad Pupovac, with one demeanor, insulted me, I recognized myself, that he insulted me. That's funny to you, isn't it? Representative Milorad Pupovac not only this time but usually simply insults other MPs in his confabulations and inventions, and, in particular, HDZ representatives. Representative Milorad Pupovac argues that the Committee has decided at its session of the last Parliament to approach the amendment of the Constitution. He didn't make a decision, he made a conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52115	But it's not a violation of the Rules of Procedure, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52116	The injury of the Rules of Procedure is that Mr. Pupovac thus insults and demeans the MPs, namely me, speaking of retirement, and it is insultingly such one behaviour that your colleague Pupovac will return to you at some point and will continue with such insults and slanders.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52117	Comrade Shakespeare, please, your time is up. You said everything. Your Honor, Agent Vladimir Shakespeare, you said we don't have to recognize each other in any discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52118	Don't give him a warning.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52119	Thank you very much. I won't tell you or him because you have enough experience knowing what belongs to the Parliament and what doesn't belong. And I didn't recognize myself in any sentence of a respected representative. Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52120	Mr. President, Article 238. I'm surprised you didn't warn your colleague Pupovec about the content and manner of his speech. The fact that you did not recognize yourself in his speech serves you honorably, but you would also have to be concerned about the appearance of others. And teaching on what my colleague Pupovac said, I deny him the right to speak on behalf of other members of the Constitution Committee because he insults all of his colleagues who have participated in the work of the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system with his insinuations on the concentration and mental abilities of individual representatives. In fact, he's lying because he told the truth, we didn't vote for the decision he was talking about. Will you give me time for this intruder?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52121	I'll give you a heads-up on the qualification that someone's lying. ... You're out of time. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] Infringement of the Rules of Procedure, honourable representative Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52122	Your Honor, Mr. President. It's not a serious breach of the Rules of Procedure, but I was going to tell counsel Llakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52123	If it's not about hurting the Rules of Procedure, you can't talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52124	No, I didn't say it wasn't about hurting the Rules of Procedure but I said it wasn't about a serious injury to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52125	There's no qualification serious or non-serious. He's qualified for injury or no injury.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52126	But Mr. President, there is the right of representatives in the Croatian Parliament as well as in any other national or supranational parliament to the freedom to formulate their opinions and their views. I wanted to tell you he's a gentleman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52127	We heard what you were about to say, just tell us what the Rules of Procedure was hurt in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52128	Be kind enough to give your word to those you've given as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52129	No, that's not what we're gonna do. Thank you very much. I am very tolerated to give you your position in accordance with Rules of Procedure one and the other is fine but you will not decide further. Thank you very much. We've finished taking the stand of the club representatives. There is nothing new that has been said and I will repeat that it is deciding on the initiative of the Group of Representatives, which the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system has given to the Assembly for adoption. Thank you very much. Can we approach the vote? Say, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52130	Dear Mr. President, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, I am looking for a break because of the misbehaving and inappropriate conduct of some fellow MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52131	Don't suggest a respected colleague to me. A respected colleague should really consider it a wish to be delayed, we have time, we are here to sit and work, but if you think that introducing to the Croatian Parliament is standard to seek a break behind every speech that no one likes, then we will not end anywhere, we will not end anywhere. I'll give you a break no problem, you'll get a break for 10 minutes and we'll continue at 11.10. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 11.05 HOURS]] I ask the representative of the Croatian Democratic Community Club to state the club's position on the reasons for the break. That's, uh, Honorable Representative Davorin Mlakar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52133	Are we gonna wait or should I start?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52134	Allow a respected colleague to speak. Please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52135	Dear Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Today we have witnessed the debate, I would say the legitimate debate of all MPs on important facts and on one of the most important points that can be found before this House, which are the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia as the highest and most significant act of a country. And we brought out on behalf of our club our vision, our opinion, and we must repeat it because everything we have said has been questioned by the performances of some of the MPs. And that's next. Democracy is based on procedure and we will insist on this procedure because we have established the rules of the game in order to give everyone an opportunity to speak, to give everyone an opportunity to express their views, opinions, and those with which most people do not have to agree. Today, however, we have witnessed something else we want to talk about, one of our colleagues who has allowed himself to speak first in the name of a group that has not authorized him to represent it. And these are the members of the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. And since I'm one of the members of that committee, I deny Mr. Pupovac the right to speak for me. How he understands the sessions is his problem. But much more important than how Mr. Pupovac spoke and not just on my behalf. He who is known in our public as the protector of minorities or if you want those particularly sensitive groups in society, you allowed her to be committed today in the Croatian Parliament, so I will say mildly, at least a violation of the Law on the Prohibition of Discrimination by insulting our speech here on condition I will say so older colleagues. And I, as a representative in this House, cannot allow Mr. Pupovac to insult the President of the Parliament because he had one or the same or different opinion or opinion that he was able to change. And I'm also not going to let him insult any of my colleagues from my club, in their name I can't speak in yours, but I can speak in general. If Mr. Pupovac doesn't know, and he should know that it's a discriminatory act when someone is belittled because of his sex, faith, national belongings or age group he belongs to, then he'd have to learn that. And we cannot allow in Parliament Mr. Pupovac to be the declared protector of sensitive groups only when it suits him politically, intellectually, morally or in any other way. That's what Mr. President deserved your conviction, and unlike you, I recognized you in his performance. And I think this is an inadmissible way of working in Parliament to insult colleagues with whom you share parliamentary benches but also everything we have so far wanted to achieve in the development of democracy in our society. This is all the consequence of the procedure under consideration regarding the amendments to the Constitution. What you have done is violate the established rules of conduct, the rules laid down by our Rules of Procedure, and we do not want to do so, we cannot and will not agree. And for your own sake, if you will, your own dignity and for the interest of those voters we represent here. That is why we invite you because it is not too late to give up the violence in the procedure you serve and try because we have time to do everything in order to change the Constitution and everything that is related to this Constitution in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52136	Thank you, too. We have a report of a breach of the Rules of Procedure, a respected representative of Milorad Pupovac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52137	Dear Mr. President, colleagues and colleagues. A fellow representative, Mlakar, injured Article 238 of the Croatian Rules of Procedure. And I'd like to say, I'm not a Pupa I'm a Pupo and I'm asking you to call me by my name... And secondly, not only in the Croatian Assembly of colleagues and colleagues but every other form of human communication is allowed language figures and figures of expression. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] A fellow milkman, with his figure speaking in the first part of his speech and in the final part of his speech, I did not insult any depressed or minority group. I spoke figuratively...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52138	Dear colleague, time's up. I just need... Please, colleague. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's not a replica, I agree. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Finish it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52139	Unlike the numerous insults that were heard in this House at the time of my term, members of both political and ethnic and all other minorities who had no figurative character but had a direct character of insult.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52140	Thank you. Thank you very much. Dear colleague Pupovac, I didn't really notice that he called you differently than your name. If it is, it really deserves a warning. I really didn't notice. ... I didn't notice. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If it is, it deserves certainly a warning. It's... Okay, we're done with that. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're left to go to work on what's the main task. We have a vote on a proposal for accession to the amendments to the Constitution initiated by a group of MPs, and in the Croatian Parliament he addressed to the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Please state who is the amendment to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia by a group of MPs for the proposal for a decision on accession. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 89 votes for and 4 abstentions, have been decided on the accession of the amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia. I give the vote and the following conclusion: "In accordance with the provision of Article 60(1), paragraph 4. Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament ("National Journal", No. 81/2013) The Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System will, on the basis of the Decision on Accession, submit a proposal to the Croatian Parliament for a draft amendment of the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia to amend the Constitution of 25 October 2013.". Please raise your hand and let us know who's behind this conclusion? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted by most votes, 91 votes for and 2 abstentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52141	And now we will discuss: - Proposal for a Law on Young People's Tips, first reading, P.Z. No. 457; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law apply in the adoption of this Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, the Committee on Local and Regional, Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, he will first propose, explain the proposal of the Law of the Deputy Minister of Social Policy and Youth Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52142	Thank you very much. Honored Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Honored MPs and MPs. The proposal for a law on youth councils proposes to repeal the 2007 Youth Council Act. The current Law on Youth Councils, although it has been in force for more than 6 years, has not sufficiently fulfilled its function, which is to be the basis for ensuring youth representation in the decision-making of young people at the level of units of local and regional, or regional self-government. The function is not fully met with regard to the number of established and functional advices of young people but also with regard to their content work, cooperation with units of local or regional, or regional self-government and the actual possibility of consulting and affecting the decision-making process at that level. But what we must certainly mention and point out is that we cannot and must not enforce the law that was passed in 2007. It was the first regulation to regulate this area, and we took on the obligation to correct what in practice proved to be dysfunctional. The proposed text is the result of a long-term consensus with stakeholders in the order of units of local and regional self-government, Youth Councils, Youth Associations and for young people and bodies of state administration and aims to improve consultation with young people in decision-making. The proposal for a law on youth advice responds to the perceived need to define more clearly the concept, role, goal and part-time advice of young people. The current law did not fully cover this matter since the objectives and roles of the advice of young people were described in general. The proposed law clearly defines the advice of young people, their purpose and role. The procedure for establishing and selecting members of the council is detailed and prescribed, not involving the autonomy of local and regional self-government but in a way to ensure a uniform standard of transparency and democratic principle. The catalogue of authorised candidates for members of youth councils has been organised and expanded to avoid discrimination against organisational forms of youth, as well as those of disorganised young people who are entitled to propose candidates for youth advice. In particular, the importance of not only setting up but also establishing advice from young people is highlighted by the introduction of a provision by which the advice of young people must be established not more than 30 days from the publication of the result of the elections, otherwise the public call and the whole electoral procedure is repeated. The proposed law lays down as law enforcement bodies units of local and regional self-government, and the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth as the authority responsible for monitoring and monitoring its implementation. Furthermore, the draft law provides for a clearer definition of the relationship between youth councils and units of local and regional self-government, in part, rights and duties, and the possibility of affecting decision-making. The proposal therefore regulates the participation of representatives of youth councils in the meetings of the representative body, the delivery of material for these sessions, insight into the debates and the obligation to hold joint meetings of the representative body with the president of the Youth Council, as well as the discussion of topics and issues of significant and interest for young people. The eloquent advice of young people is structured to fully cover the fundamental function of the advice of young people, which is to advise the representative body on issues of importance for young people. In relation to the current law, the provision under which advice from young people can carry out other tasks of interest for young people has been amended and this provision is limited to other advisory matters of interest for young people, since the basic function of the advice of young people is advisory, not project-based. The proposal allows young people's advice to initiate decision-making and to guide opinions, proposals and recommendations to the representative body of their unit of local and regional, or regional self-government. The issues of administration and the provision of resources for the work of the council are clearly regulated so that the financial resources are provided in accordance with the programme of work of the Council and the financial plan concerned. The proposal for a law lays down provisions on cooperation between youth councils and, in particular, the possibility of establishing joint councils in local self-government units, and the possibility of establishing joint councils in local self-government units has been introduced for reasons to enable young people in those local communities who are too small to establish a separate advice or have some common interest in this activity. Provisions have been introduced that regulate the supervision and monitoring of law enforcement by the competent ministry through the management of the youth advice base, the collection of information on the functioning of councils, the publication of annual reports and the provision of recommendations to better functioning advice. The draft law lays down a minimum standard of the content of the youth advice programme and its link to the financial plan as well as the mechanism for mutual reporting of the advice of young people and units of local or regional self-government. These provisions were necessary to target and structure the work of the council and to establish official two-way communication and joint work between units of local or regional self-government. In addition to technical and content papers, in relation to the current law on youth councils, the proposed law introduces certain principles and values of a dominant democratic and political culture such as the principle of partnership, non-discrimination, cooperation and avoidance of conflicts of interest. The law will allow the uninterrupted establishment and work of advice from young people, even through the possibility of establishing joint advice from young people and taking into account unorganised young people in the submission of candidacy, as informal youth groups are listed by the proposed law as authorised applicants. The law will also allow for more intensive cooperation between units of local or regional self-government and mechanisms for the participation of youth councils at meetings of representative bodies of units of local and regional self-government, as well as two-way communication and cooperation on issues of importance for young people. This law will, in particular, contribute to the transparency of the implementation of the procedure for the establishment and selection of advice and relations and the cooperation of councils and units of local and regional self-government in which they operate. Young people’s advice has often been slow and underactive and overworked by jobs and activities that are not within their jurisdiction under the law in the last six years. This law provides more concrete arrangements for space and a way for advice to become what it was originally intended to be, an advisory body of units of local or regional or regional self-government which aims to advise the representative body of its unit on issues of importance for young people and to advocate and promote the rights, needs and interests of young people in their community. Youth advice is a form of active participation of young people in communities at levels where many decisions are made that directly affect people's lives. The active participation of young people is described in the documents of the European Union and the Council of Europe, and the democratic principles and standards of consultation that Croatia has adopted through both the Constitution and numerous laws require us to guarantee a quality framework for consulting young people at local and regional level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52143	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Excuse me, Sunny Head replica before that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52144	Thank you, Madam Vice President, it's a long day for you, too, all right. I just wanted to look back at one part of your explanation when you say it's gonna be a better two-way communication, when you're talking about better control mechanisms. However, I would like to point out to you a specific example in which the current law is being violated, as well as a law that we will adopt if we adopt it this way, which is a concrete example in Međimurje County, in the municipality of Donji Kraljec. So, colleagues will know which ones come from Međimurje, so the President of the Council and the Social Democratic Party has reached out to a mechanism that actually the law does not know, which is the disbanding of the Youth Council. So she disbanded the Council of Young People contrary to the law. And I just want to point out that she was a non-partisan person at the head of that advice. However, of the 7 members of 2 were HDZ, one from the SDP but the complete Youth Council was not at the will or political taste of the ruling party. I think it's absolutely inadmissible, but if we just rule out this political moment that's happened, and as far as I know, you've been asking about the case, so I expect to get an answer. Then I ask you to answer me what we will do if in this way another municipality, a city. So if the opposite of the law, and you have the only control mechanism in this way, sends a message to young people, you run, but if you're not going to be in our political or any other taste, then we will disband you because the law does not provide any punishment. About some of the other minor shortcomings in the procedure, I think the way of running will speak for the club, and we will look back in the debate. So I'm asking you specifically to answer what you're going to do in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52145	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Club of HNS Representatives, colleagues Sonja König and Vice-President Milorad Batinić will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52146	Thank you, well-respected vice president, respected deputy minister with associate, colleague and colleague. Although the Law on Young People’s Tips was passed more than six years ago, neither our young fellow citizens, nor did they take advantage of all the opportunities provided by the Law on Young People’s Tips. Much, and because many difficulties have been encountered in the implementation of this law. Representatives of the Youth Network, an alliance that represents 64 Youth Associations and for young people in our country have often said that when implementing this law, its diversity of practices, its different application in certain municipalities and cities. They indicated that units of local and regional self-government with fewer positive examples did not have sufficient understanding for the work of the Youth Council. It has been shown that as actors in the process of consulting and making decisions concerning young people, young people were not viewed as equal participants. Therefore, the Law on Youth Councils met not so widely applied in the Republic of Croatia, and the actions of those who were founded have spread into a number of unequal and unstandardized practices which lack representativeness and real influence. And it is good that now the new law, following a number of criticisms, the proposal and the debate, aims to further regulate the area, i.e. to improve consultation with young people in decision making at local and regional and regional level, and the HNS club will support it. The Youth Network of Croatia has actively participated in discussions in the creation of a new Law on Youth Tips and to express myself in a dictionary of one of their members this proposal clearly defines part-time work and introduces a few useful innovations. The selection procedure of the Youth Council is defined and their number and meeting obligation are prescribed. The members' status shall also be introduced by the deputy members of the Council. It shall be prohibited to pay for work, but it shall remain entitled to compensation, for example, for the costs of coming and going to meetings. Members' mandates are being extended, so it will now take three years to compare to two as it was under the old law. The possibility of establishing joint councils between municipalities and cities can also be opened, with this new proposal, candidates for informal youth groups increasing the chance to establish a Youth Council and a greater variety of its members. Because in some municipalities there were not or are not many registered youth associations. The relationship between the advice and the representative body is defined, i.e. the obligation to meet them periodically, and introduces the obligation of the mayor, mayor or mayor, mayor or mayor to inform the Council of young people on their activities which are of importance or interest to young people on a written basis. It is very important and, of course, we also welcome it at the HNS club that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has taken over the obligation to monitor the situation in the area of the Youth Council. It is required, according to the proposal, to publish a report on the implementation of the law and, if necessary, to make recommendations to units of local, or regional self-government for its more efficient implementation. This seems to us to be a serious approach, and through the report, it also gives us the opportunity to give us parliamentary representatives and MPs the opportunity to react more easily to possible observed remarks or difficulties and to make a proposal for an amendment or a possible amendment of the law. Because youth advice is part of the concept of youth participation in decision-making processes that highlight the partnership between young and adult decision-making. It is useful, in our opinion, for both young people and adults and for the entire social community. The participation of children and young people is important for their growth and development. By joining the world around them, they make changes. Their participation is not only in the development of active citizenship or the strengthening of democracy, participation must be important for young people so that they can influence decisions that apply to them and right in the time of their youth. Learning from children and young people is a valuable experience as we mentioned for adults. They increase awareness in the broadest proportions of young people's views and needs, increase tolerance and respect for young people. In all, intergenerational dialogue is growing. Trust and awareness for the needs and opinions of others is increasing, while participation and children and young people can also raise the quality of life. Because you can hear the mention of young people every day in the context of violence among young people, drug abuse or alcohol, and unfortunately less as a resource and huge potential. But like many other things, involving young people in social life depends largely on the willingness of those or the elderly to give or leave part of the space to young people. To this we must be prepared or at least more prepared and be committed to the idea at least in the opinion of us at the HNS club that the world is changing not only for children and young people but with their active participation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52147	Madam Vice-President, Deputy Minister, here is a lesson in what my colleague König was saying and what the deputy minister of the 2007 Law said was a good initiative, of course from the assessment of the situation and what the law was like six years ago, or how the advice of young people within units of local and regional self-government said that certain procedures had to be done more particularly formally. We do not need and do not have the illusion that every law is a framework, and the functioning in this case of the Youth Council will depend and depend exclusively on the young themselves, and to a large extent on the leaders of local and regional self-government. We have different experiences, however, this data 19 of 21 at the level of county councils, 98 of 127 possible city councils, but the data of 143 of 429 possible municipal councils of young people only speaks about problems about young people talking about the situation in municipalities in the Republic of Croatia. Here we can connect a number of topics, open a theme about how, about design, what needs, regionalisation etc., etc. However, all these problems are manifested through... the very advice of young people and the way they function. Well, that's another topic. Given the times, I would like to look back on some concrete suggestions. What the practice of the Youth Council in my city so here I would like to share and give me some suggestions, some suggestions. I hope it will be appreciated and considered and may become an integral part of the bill itself. In Article 2 it clearly speaks as advisory bodies of units of local and regional self-government. Of course, as I was saying earlier, it depends but executive bodies, or mayors, mayors, mayors, are all mentioned in the principle of law. It may also be considered to consider whether it is possible to bring it into the law by any other act, whether it is influencing the Law on Units of Local and Regional Self-Government where the form of functioning is prescribed, or whether it is also an obligation. I don't know if, as soon as the law has no criminal provisions, it's a question of its application. Good intention, excellent intent. We've had nine or ten hours of history now, this is the future. We are more or less aware of this, and I am only sorry that there are no more colleagues from the executives at the local level because this operation depends solely on us. What I would like to propose is a composition of the Youth Council. I don't think I would be misunderstood if it were like some kind of parallel institution to municipal city councils or county councils, but I think you're the number of members of the Youth Council from 5 to 15. Is there any possibility of considering a proposal to co-ordinate it with the number of members of city councils defined by the Local Self-Government Units Act? In particular, let's say up to 10,000 residents of 7 members. At least 5 to 7. And now you have the City of Zagreb, there are at least 11 and 15 members at most. How many city districts are there specifically when we talk about the City of Zagreb? Will all associations, all interested youth groups be able to gather in these 15 members? I know it's simple with as few people as possible to speak, but it's not the goal of making a form, and I don't see this as a form, but to bring it back to life and to start working in its essence and essence. So here I suggest that it means the number of members of the Youth Council if it is not part of your thinking to try to find a model such as the numerical composition of city and municipal councils or county councils. The term of office of members of the Youth Council and their deputies, which is good, shall be elected for three years. This deputy good for three years is that maybe too short a period? It's on me. City councils are elected for 4 years, mayor's office, mayor at 4. Here's the third term I'm mayor now, and I see I still lack time for some projects. I'd suggest it's five. Furthermore, the advice of young people holds regular sessions at least once every three months. I'm glad that here in the application for a debate much younger than I am, but we who remember a little longer were young, we faced the same problems that young people face today, we have the same visions, thoughts, nothing has changed much. But from experience, don't write at least once every three months, it will become a rule. Let's add, if necessary and more often, let it say, the intensity won't change any ideas, but I would suggest in that part that we give the opportunity to initiate this bill to meet more often. Article 16. I'm a little bit honest about what I came up against the wall. I'll read paragraph 2. "A member of the Youth Council or a deputy who is directly interested in making a decision on a matter may take part in the debate on the matter but is excluded from the decision." Come on, maybe. However, paragraph 3 is considered. "The opinion shall be given directly to a member of the council for a decision on a matter if the decision concerns a project involving or participating in a legal person in which he has a share in ownership or is a member of a legal person or its governing body." So are we so frustrated literally with corruption, with corrupt affairs that we are already trying to prejudge some things, or think that younger generations are also literally poisoned with some affairs, with circumstances or with the everyday life they see. That's where I'd like us to be a little softer. And I see my time is running out. What I certainly do not stand for is Article 24(7). "The Vice President can attend sessions without the right to vote," this is unacceptable to me. They don't have the ability to decide but they don't have the right to vote. Definitely because of that I am even willing and not to vote for a proposal to support this law We must enable young people to express their opinions clearly before the representative body, without the right to decide but the right to vote hope that you will appreciate this. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52148	Marian Skvaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52149	My dear colleague, I really agree with you on this finding about the very work of the Youth Council, and this conclusion is next that the workings of the Youth Council were most concerned with the wishes and responsibilities of the mayor or mayor. Let's be realistic. And here it is also in the report on the work of young people that we were in line that we repeated the competitions many times because the young people on the call could not form a council of young people. We, as mayors, had to provide funds for young people so that they could function and conduct the task they were informed of. On the other hand, when you have one activity that has two basics, which is that it is advisory, and that means you can say something when someone asks you a counselor it's very nice to be, and on the other hand we go to the level of volunteering. It doesn't go together. And let us consider that perhaps within these activities, and to achieve that purpose, at least at the county level, there is one youth coordinator who will work with them, educate and learn together with local and regional self-government leaders how to achieve these results. It must be a man who actively participates in this, at the end of the day it must be paid, that it really does not depend on the work of young people depending on the wish of a mayor, mayor or mayor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52150	Reply to the replica Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52151	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Yes, my colleague Škvarić in that too, your replica astounded me on the part that it was purely advisory was written in this review of the state of the art to exclude themselves from the projects, in my opinion it was wrong, it was definitely wrong. However, they should be included in the project. So my advice to young towns and the Zlatar Youth Association is in violation of this law because they have run for one joint project on EU funds, received funds and revived the project. Of course, the formal part is satisfied, but I definitely stand for it, of course you have a long experience, I don't know which 3rd, 4th term, but you know very well how these systems work. Namely, my discussion and what I have answered to you is precisely with a desire for the advice of young people to function as best as possible. It's something to discuss, maybe limit. It's good to even have travel expenses on arrivals, that's a step. However, little should be the same thing I didn't get to the end of the debate, you should see certain items of the law perhaps to consult the Bill on Budgets, the Law on the financing of units of local self-government, I don't think something is in agreement with the existing law and here's a clean and suggestion. Otherwise, in principle, I support the law definitely but I say, I'd like some adjustments to be made. And especially this part might have been the intensity of not having the right to decide. Yes, but I'd like to ask the right to vote is one thing, the right to decide is another. Because that's what automation will do when young people read that law automatically creates resistance to it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52152	Nancy Tyrelli, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52153	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Batinić, well, it was very nice to listen to you, and that's what we miss when we say that we still have to listen to the profession, and that's the practice that you have now shown in concrete advice that something should be shown in good faith. I agree with you higher than the fact that you might consider the number of members of the council compared to the number of council members. But I would also suggest that it be considered when we restrict them from meeting at least once every three months that I agree with you that it is not good because then it becomes a rule but that perhaps on that trail with the number of members it is also somehow determined that since the advice of the young advisory body is that they have meetings so shortly before the council meetings. It's usually in those smaller municipalities where we have a problem putting together young people's advice. These municipal councils happen as a rule, and almost once in three months, which wouldn't be far from this proposal. On the other hand, those advices of young people who work well and quality in cities that are sensitive to the opinion of young people’s advice would be very good if, as an advisory body, they were doing their meeting precisely on the subject of, say, the agenda where I think that young people can be found at every point.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52154	Reply to the replica Milorad Batinić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52155	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, colleagues of Tyrelli that, namely why I was saying it, I was saying it from my own experience. And it's precisely the desire and the positive intensity of the law, let's let's make it possible for young people to change the law. Let's not put them in a tighter frame than necessary. Let's let them work, be as active as possible, for good. Here I believe you will have the support of all the mayors, the mayors who are intent, who are well-intentioned, who want well their unit, their city or the municipality. Because I'm saying, let's remember our youth, how proactive we were, how many good ideas we had, quality ideas. Unfortunately, there was no one to implement them. We had no understanding. I would like to propose something else, of course, which is a matter of discussion, a legal procedure to bind the city council to respect certain projects in one way or another and to finance them. I would also like to finance certain projects. And what is extremely important, every wise benevolent mayor will have no problem with the work of the advice of young people. At least it's the advisory body, the representative body. That's why I'm saying that maybe there's a possibility in the law that it's working with the executive body, that there's a better connection. Because where it becomes compatible with the executive and representative authorities but where it is not, the young should now work with their connection activity. And all together to work for the good of the environment in which you live.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52156	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52157	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The Law on Youth Tips is a document that determines the purpose and purpose of the advice of young people and is a fundamental document of their actions. As we know, the law has been in force for six years, but however, the advice of young people is not even established in all counties, cities and municipalities. A recent survey of GONG found that young people’s advice was active, or established in accordance with the law, and that they held at least one session in 90% of counties, 70% of cities and 29% of municipalities. Of this, more than half of the youth councils had some form of communication with the representative body and only 27% of the representative bodies asked for an indication of youth advice on issues from their work. This was, of course, the most common issue of the debate on the adoption of a plan for the activities of youth councils in the previous and upcoming year. In view of the legal obligation to set up advice from young people, the low percentage of active advice points to a lack of law enforcement while young people's lack of interest in running in these bodies are referring to their lack of information on instruments that can have a greater impact on decision-making processes on their communities. The analysis also showed that only 42.9% of young people's advice proposed a agenda point for the representative body's session in the last year until 57% of them took advantage of the possibility. Although the proposed items of the agenda were mostly related to the work of the council itself but... and proposals relating to other relevant issues such as urban traffic regulation, increased urban scholarships and issues of housing for young people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Finally, one of the positive findings that this study showed indicates that the young people were invited to all meetings relatively often to take part in the Christian Youth Council. The news of the Law that we are discussing today does not fully satisfy the interests of young people. So I'm going to make some positive shifts and point to areas where I think we've stayed in place. When I talk about positive things first, I want to look back at article 24. I welcome the fact that, at the proposal of the Youth Council, the representative body of the units of local or regional self-government will discuss the issue of young people's interest at the latest at the first next session of the day of delivery of requests for advice from young people. I think that this definitely strengthens the role of young people's advice and gives us the opportunity to ask questions that are relevant for young people to come to the agenda. I hope that this issue will not be included as the last item of the agenda, as is usually the case when a report on the work of the Youth Council or their programme is discussed. These points usually occur when there are not enough agenda points or are classified as the last points when there is no one else in the council or congregation anymore and no one listens. The same article also includes a provision for the president of the representative body to hold, where appropriate, a joint meeting every three months with the President of the Youth Council to which he calls, where appropriate, other members of the representative body of the Council of Youth and Units of Local and Regional Self-Government, where they discuss all issues of interest for young people. That's good, but I think it would be even better if that president of the Youth Council received directly by the mayor, mayor or mayor. We know that these are those in whose hands is power, and they can certainly do better and more to help that counsel of young ones. Changes are also linked to Article 9(3), which speaks of candidates for members of youth councils and their deputies. Now, the candidates can also be submitted to informal youth groups. I think that's very good, it's recognised in the European Union, and it's certainly in the European spirit, and that's how we encourage young people to run more. Several technical changes have also been introduced into the law, since the age limit has changed. So now members of the Youth Council can all be young from 15 to 30, have deputies, and the mandate has been increased from 2 to 3 years. I think it's good, that 4 or 5 years would be too much, especially if it were 4 years if we knew how to choose the advice of young people then it had to do with a lot more politics. However, the law remains some of the problems we have had so far, from the financing issue and beyond. As we know, the advice of young people is chosen by the representative bodies of the local and regional self-government units, and this is often a space for political corruption because there is always a question that the ruling majority chooses a similar advice for young people and then the advice of young people is no longer a creative body that is before time, which struggles for the interests of young people but often becomes a political body that is used as needed. If we take the example of the city of Zagreb where there are about 300 thousand young people up to 35 years old, I think there would be very few who would know that the advice of young people even exists, which is what the advice deals with, who are members. I think it is very important to give the advice of young people on importance, but what is even more important is that we engage young people. We are witnessing that young people are becoming less involved in such and similar activities, and they need to be encouraged and educated. For example, perhaps already in some sort of elementary and high school stands, in high schools. It is not enough to provide room for a session of young people’s councils, but it is also necessary to maintain a place where other young ones, for example, are present. I can come and talk to you. As for the funds for the work of youth councils, that part should be more clearly defined in my opinion. There are no sanctions for those units of local and regional self-government that do not provide the means to implement the planned activities of the council. So the mayor, the mayor or the captain who doesn't secure the funds he doesn't answer. It would certainly be easier to act on the advice of young people if it were more stringent legally prescribed. Furthermore, I would like to draw attention to Article 14. This article discusses how often meetings of young people’s counsel should be held. So far it's been at least once every two months, now it's at least once every three months. So on the one hand, we try to strengthen the role of youth counsel, and on the other hand we reduce the number of sessions. It's in my opinion a step back. It would be more logical for meetings to be held as often as possible, for example before city or municipal councils or the County Assembly. Young people have an opinion on everything, and we need to give them a chance to speak. I would also like to mention the supervision of the implementation of this law. The supervision is carried out by the ministry responsible for young people, and the supervision consists of regular annual monitoring of the number of Councils established, its functioning and cooperation with units of local and regional self-government, but we still have no definition of what will happen to those municipalities, cities and counties that will not establish advice. There should be responsibility for units of local and regional self-government that have not established advice. My colleagues and colleagues, today when we talk about the Law on Young People’s Tips, I think it is an opportunity to point out some of the problems young people face daily. We often hear here in the Assembly about numbers of unemployed people growing daily, and in Croatia, the number of unemployed young people under 25 is 51.8%. And what's the reaction, what's our government's response? We have one single solution offered to young people, which is to work in 10 kuna an hour. I'm talking, of course, about the 1600 kuna model. I think we are all aware how young educated Croats respond to such solutions, young people leave Croatia. About 10,000 young people left Croatia in a year. And now we have the problem of brain draining and the fact that young people in the Republic of Croatia do not see the perspective. Such a climate government in Croatia. Young people are frustrated, aware that they only listen to promises from day to day, and they don't have the opportunity to take matters into their own hands. Young people leave Croatia because they don't see the future of life here. There are many young people in my area who have passed professional training and who later ended up at the Croatian Employment Service. They don't see the perspective, they don't see a reason to start a family, they don't even think about how to do it because they think there's no violation for them. My neighbor, a 28-year-old girl, she's a high-end expert in training, and today she's saving her baby for 1,500 kuna. The second one worked all summer as a waitress at sea. It's a reality where young people are today. Because of everything I mentioned today, I appeal to the government to give young people a chance, to see the perspective and reason for staying in Croatia, not to let the greatest treasure we have across the border and thus leave Croatia without a future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52158	Thank you very much. Sasha Djujic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52159	My colleague Banic, I listened very carefully to your debate. I have a few objections to some of your thesis. So let's say here's the first one would be your proposal to hold meetings with the mayor or mayor by the president of the Youth Council. I must draw attention to you that the Council of Youth is the advisory body of the representative body, not the mayor or mayor. And I think it's just a big deal that this possibility of meeting with the leaders of the representative bodies. But I'd say that's where I'm referring to you, so I'd suggest that the head of the representative body may be holding regular meetings with all representatives of the Youth Council. So, not only with the president, it doesn't turn out that the two of them are drinking coffee, but all of them get involved in this story together, so they can talk about all the issues of young people. You say the problem, Youth Councils become a political body because of the way they choose. They're chosen by representative bodies. That's right. But who should choose them, make a suggestion. How to choose without being a political body and not being the will of a majority. I agree with the fact that meetings should be held more often, but I would not tie up here as we have already heard some suggestions before the meetings of city and municipal councils. Because here's what I'm going to say from the example of my environment. In my town, the City Council sessions are held once every three months, she would limit them right to meetings at once in three months. They have to work all the time. Why don't we meet more times a month? They need to be able to do that. And yet, I mean here not once in three months. On the other hand, we tie them back to some deadlines. And secondly, this last part of your exposure of 1600 kuna programs and government decisions and about where young people are today and what kind of situation they are in today in Croatia I don't think they have anything to do with this law, and it's just a little unnecessary politicisation in my opinion, and I'm not going to talk about what they should be talking about right now, why the young people are where they are, because then I could say because the tunnels in Croatia were painted three times because they were carrying out money bags, etc. But I don't think that's the point of this debate. So I'm keeping myself out of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52160	Replication response, Martina Banic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52161	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Djujic, I do not need you to teach me a lesson in how to conduct my discussion. I think that if the theme of the Law on Young People's Tips is that this applies very much to young people and to all the problems that young people today have in Croatia. And the main and basic problem of youth in Croatia is unemployment. And you can't convince me or anyone else that that's not the case. As for the advice of young people, the advisory body, I also know that. But we're talking here about the role of the Youth Council, about strengthening the Youth Council. And I think and agree that some of the things that change now by law are just changing in this direction to strengthen the role of the Youth Council. And I don't think anything would happen if the president of the Youth Council met with the mayor, the mayor and the mayor, regardless of their role as advisory. As regards the proposal you spoke of in the law, it is prescribed that the president of the representative body may invite other members of the Youth Council to the meeting. Therefore, it is already foreseen by law. And as for Young People’s Tips, often political bodies, I think we're all aware and they are. How else to make a choice of members of the Youth Council has been discussed on the committee. Surely if the term of office were four years, then it could be held as a real election. But I believe that there could be some solution, that the advice of young people is chosen in another way. Maybe here's to four years of advice, not three or two or five.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52162	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52163	Dear Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. I don't think I'm going to say big news, and it seems rather tragic and what I'm repeating in my relatively many years in the Croatian Parliament, one seventh or eight times when I say that young people today are the most politically weak population in Croatian society. Today, between 16 and 30 years of age, there are around 18% in the population, and in all levels the authorities are represented between 0 and 2%. So much under-representation of young people is such a big problem for researchers who deal with young people that they are even declaring themselves a threat to the future of representative democracy. What further discourages is the fact that over a number of times confirmed by scientific research that young people, however dissatisfied they are, are greatly despised by politics and their own participation in decision-making processes. Which, in addition to this already mentioned mistrust for young people towards social, political institutions, which are the key reasons for young people's non-participation in decision-making processes. According to these surveys, the participation of young people in decision-making processes as an important indicator of overall policy towards young people depends primarily on the political will of the authorities, i.e. the willingness of the elderly to leave part of the space to the young, i.e. the willingness of the elderly to leave part of the political power to the young. And unfortunately, he talks mostly and starts and ends. That's where I have to say when I speak from a grown-up position, there's not much of us here. There is the greatest responsibility on political parties and our political parties which are actually bodies from which political elites are recruited for various representative bodies little or no, it seems to me that only one party in the Republic of Croatia, that is SDP has regulated quotas for young people. So we're talking about young people up to 30 years old. So, the parties almost certainly do, according to the findings of these surveys, have youth participations in local authorities rarely promote their own youth and allow them to become part of the decision-making process. Take a look at the actual schedule here in the Croatian Parliament and this mandate and mandates before that. In many European documents, I would particularly like to highlight the revised Charter on the participation of young people in the life of the municipality and regions of the Council of Europe as a shortcut for such a poor state of representativeness of youth participation is suggested by the formation of a council or of the Council of Youth on what we are discussing here today. Of course, the councils and advice of young people are not the same and these are two different concepts. One accent from European documents. Youth policy is a primary issue that needs to be addressed and addressed at local and regional level and, according to the European Commission White Paper, is the sole responsibility of the Member States, but is expected to meet certain standards and criteria for policy towards young people defined by the European Commission in the cooperation process with young people at EU level primarily in cooperation with the European Youth Forum, which is the advisory body of the European Commission. In 2001, the Republic of Croatia launched processes to create a National Strategy for Youth, to develop a legislative framework for youth participation instruments in the decision-making process at local levels and to create a roof National Youth Organisation. In 2002, the Croatian Parliament supported the first National Youth Action Programme, which for the first time defined the model and expressed its political will to form advisory bodies for young people at local and regional levels. We heard that the first Law on Youth Councils was passed in 2007 although until the end of the debate and the adoption of amendments on the law were actually debated by the councils, not the advice of young people, which changed the concept in the vote itself. A few concrete comments on the very text of the bill allow me actually three notes that I find extremely important when we talk about the advice of young people and in general about youth participation. First, we can often hear in public or very often how young our future is. That is true, but in this context it is important to point out that they are young and present. When we talk about young people, we constantly call on the future to ignore an important fact when that future comes, these young ones will no longer be young. Secondly, based on some of the experiences in the application of this law, which have indeed been mentioned by colleagues before me, it is not and should not be possible for the advice of young people to be bodies of makeup or to show the kindness and accessibility of the local leader, and the existence and work of the Youth Council must not be subject to the satisfaction of sometimes the promotional or political objectives of these local leaders. Respecting all European recommendations but also good experience from Croatia, we consider it necessary for the advice to be a real polygon for the cooperation and partnership relationship between young and local authorities and one of the ways to restore the confidence of young people in politics and involve them in making decisions that concern them. And in that context, the advice of young people is political bodies. Asking and expecting them to be something else would be completely wrong, their idea is to be political bodies. Of course, when we talk about it, political bodies don't mean anything. We here discuss politics as if it were something bad, something bad, something dirty. Politics can be different and different. I believe it's possible and it exists. Both third and last, in the previous context, it is particularly important to establish something that is referred to in the documents dealing with young people as the phrase of ownership of young people over processes. This is not only part of the termology but also part of the practice that we need to establish regarding the Council of Young People. In particular, in the very draft law, we at the SDP club support the bill's proposal, we consider it a fairly large step forward compared to the current law. This refers in particular to the more precise and precise definition of the Youth Council and its purpose. It is really important to understand that the advice of young people is neither a substitute for youth associations. They are not or should not perform what they can do and do youth associations, especially in terms of project implementation. It's the work of NGOs and other organizations. Young people’s advice does not serve that. It is great that, for the first time in the law, Article 5 of the Law, units of local, regional or regional self-government appear, according to the advice of young people, to which we estimate that some of the bad practices we have had so far, which I have mentioned earlier, will be done. Furthermore, the provisions on the establishment, composition and selection of members and the establishment of the Youth Council have been significantly improved. In particular, we point out a few of us for the good news. Determination of the content of the decision to set up a Youth Council, Article 7 brings good news in view of the authenticity of our local units, which is that for several units of local self-government, a joint advice of young people can be established. When running for membership in the Youth Council, it is good news that representatives of youth union and party organisations can also run because they have done so far, but this is simply more transparent and formulation and opportunity, and I especially want to highlight informal youth groups. And this is particularly important in smaller areas where there are not so many organised forms of youth and can be encouraged to participate and those young people who have less motivation and are not already members of any of the existing organizations. It is also great that the law prescribes a secret vote to elect members of the Youth Council in representative bodies because it can indeed reduce one part of the politicisation and collection of political points. Articles 13 and 24, 25 of the Law, i.e. the part of the law relating to the work of the Youth Council and its relationship with the representative and executive body of the unit of local and regional self-government. And it seems we will actually bring the most good and necessary newspapers in practice because we have not even had those provisions in the existing law so far. We strongly support the fact that the law regulates both formal relations between the Council of Youth and the representative body and, in some ways, the representative bodies and the mayors and mayors and mayors to cooperate with the advice of young people who will no longer be formal and protocolal but real. Therefore, we support the provisions that speak about the delivery to the Youth Council of materials and calls for representative bodies' meetings on the need for permanent and concrete cooperation between the leaders and the Youth Council and the provisions that speak of the representative of the Youth Council taking part in the work of the representative body and that, at the request of the Youth Council, the representative body must discuss a question of interest for young people at the first next session. The application of these provisions will ensure the status of the Youth Council in deciding local communities in a way that the advice of young people and should function and prevent at least some of the bad practices so far. The last thing we want to highlight as an important newspaper are the provisions relating to the supervision of the implementation and monitoring of law enforcement because there is no current law on these provisions at all. In fact, so far, there was no legal obligation for all local units to establish the advice of young people, and there was no way in which neither quantitative nor qualitative analysis of the work of youth councils could be conducted. Since this is about first reading and we support the debate in two readings, we have on this bill and two proposals that we offer to the Proposer to consider them until the second reading with our desire for the text of the law to become better, and the law is even more appropriate and more concrete. The first proposal is to consider the possibility for young people's advice to be established in the councils of the city's districts of Zagreb. Zagreb city districts are also larger than the largest number of towns and municipalities in the Republic of Croatia, and many of them are larger than the good part of the county and we believe that young people and in the city of Zagreb should be allowed to participate on two levels, as is possible for all young people in the Republic of Croatia at the level of the city and the municipality and then for the county. We are aware of the restrictions and the Law on the City of Zagreb and a rather small local self-government part of Zagreb's urban districts, but we believe that the advice of young people at the level of the city districts of Zagreb would give young people the opportunity to specifically shape their immediate surroundings in which they live, which is in line with the principles of the functioning of youth advice but would bring new quality and content and in the work of urban districts themselves. It is our second proposal to prescribe by law that an annual report on the implementation of this law, which is produced by the competent ministry and published on its website, is also being submitted to the home Committee on Family, Youth and Sports here of the Croatian Parliament and the Committee on Local Self-Government. We believe that the debate on the implementation of the law and on the boards of the Croatian Parliament would contribute to the greater visibility of the work of youth councils to support the more active work of youth councils and in general the inclusion of young people in decision-making processes and could have a positive impact on those units that, for these or those reasons, do not have to do so, even though youth advice must. Dear colleagues and colleagues in conclusion, the SDP club will support the adoption of this law. We assess it with a significant step forward in the functioning of the Youth Participation Mechanism in the decision-making processes, because it also makes it possible, if not formally, to make real decisions between young and local authorities on issues and issues of interest for young people, while at the same time providing equal opportunities for all young people to participate independently of the local community in which they live. In order to hope that we are developing on the one hand the awareness of the need for participation of young people and the mechanisms that enable this participation that, over several years, in the same way that we are now promoting the work of young people's advice, we will be able to move on to the concept of youth councils, which is something different in terms of youth advice. The advice of young people select representative bodies, they are advisory bodies the easiest to compare is to have the practical status of a particular presidential body. Youth councils are bodies that choose young people in direct elections independently, secretly to themselves. It's a completely different story. We in the SDP really want to see the more active young people, we want to see the functional advice of young people that we view as political but educationally active bodies as an opportunity to show up and that young people directly see that they can and must work differently but we don't see them as political bodies, we don't see them as promotional bodies, and as such we think that with the instruments proposed in the law they won't even be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52164	Thank you. Sonja König replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52165	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Parliament. Dear colleague Lugaric, you spoke of the sub-representation of young people in political life and our responsibility for it. I think it would show full responsibility, and I suspect from your debate that you will also support my proposal to seriously discuss the possibility for our young citizens from 16 years of age to vote in the local elections... /The speaker has been excluded./... which has also brought a recommendation that calls on all member states to consider lowering the age limit to achieve the general right of vote. The national programme of action for young people, which the Croatian Parliament unanimously adopted from all parliamentary parties, is a consensus that Croatian 16-year-olds should be able to vote in the elections for local authorities. In its report, the Ombudsman also states, in her annual report, that the extension of voting rights to children over 16 years of age at local level should be discussed more and should be used as a starting point for possible future normative solutions. And we know that young people in Croatia still have employment rights when they are 16 years old.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52166	Reply to the replica Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52167	My colleague König, I am pleased that you mentioned the National Youth Action Programme of 2001, which first placed that possibility. I was one of the six members of the task force that this National Youth Action Programme wrote. So of course I support that measure because I'm one of the initiators to take that measure and become part of saying something general... towards young people. What was the problem with that measure several times she was in the public's focus then was the first time, she was once again behind it when she was actually political. Time has shown that it was political and that it wasn't real. And it would be good if we reopened this really serious debate not in front of some election, not in front of some figurines in our pockets to catch up with a particular cohort of the electoral body, but in order to actually achieve what is needed. Yes, I personally support this, and I voted in the National Programme for Youth Action in 2001, so I personally do not have a single dispute.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52168	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists, colleague Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52169	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the distinguished deputy minister with a co-worker. Obviously, we're more interested in history today than in the future, but that's how it is. The Croatian Labour Club will support the Bill on Youth Tips. I tried to find out how the old law worked in practice, and I got to know the difficulties that had arisen. I think some of them aren't even solved in this law, so I'll give you a brief indication of them. Although advice from young people is set up as advisory bodies of local units, regional self-governments promoting and defending the rights, needs and interests of young people at local, regional, regional self-government and level, it has been shown in practice that a large number of local self-government units do not have sufficient understanding and knowledge needed to act on youth advice, which often leads to the neglect of legally prescribed administrative technical support. It has also been shown that young people’s advice is not equally seen by actors in the consultation and decision-making processes of young people in their communities. This also confirms the fact that in most municipalities, cities and counties the advice of young people is not even established. The proposal for a new law requires all units of local and regional self-government to set up a council within 90 days. But our view is that this still does not change the perception of counsel as bodies of second - class importance. Although Article 24 is a somewhat strengthened position in the advice of young people, as it provides for meetings between the presidents of representative bodies and the president of the Youth Council, the position will continue to be weakened unless the level of information and education on youth advice is raised in units of local and regional self-government. And if their recommendations do not come true and respect them. The following problem I have noticed concerns not only the content of the new law's proposal but the circumstances that make it difficult for the law to live in the fullest sense. The motivation and willingness of young people to take part in the work of counsel and thus promote their interest in a large part is worryingly low. Such membership often comes down to its own interests, such as hanging out with other members and joint exits. I came across information that advice activities often marginalise their advisory role and prefer actions such as concert organisation, cleaning and so forth. I believe that this fact indicates the need for at least partial profiling of future members to eventually become young people who are really interested in breaking the entire age group. ... Youth advice in smaller municipalities and cities often lacks enough interested young people to run for advice from young people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the proposal for a law on advice from young people, the lower limit of members and members shall be reduced to 3. Most of the objections refer to insufficient public calls in which the procedure has not been sufficiently described. By consulting local and regional self-government units, it turned out that they themselves are not respecting their own procedures enough and do not recognise their own interest in setting up youth councils. In addition, public calls in a number of cases were exclusive according to one or more formally registered forms of youth organisation. The Law on Young People’s Tips describes in detail what a public call should contain and what it does not allow. Article 9 provides for candidates for members of youth councils and their alternates to stand out as party organisations. In practice, it has been shown that only springs of these organisations can be found in the Council. Despite prominent candidates from associations or other forms of youth organisation. The springs of party organisations in this case are over-represented. It is also possible to find more representatives of one organization in the composition of youth councils, which again leads to sub-representation of one or more others. The article does not provide for what share in the composition structure can be taken up by representatives of an organisation. The proposal is to regulate how much a representative of an organization can be in the form of advice from young people. Article 9 does not provide for the possibility for a young person to be able to apply independently for membership in the Council. The amendment of the bill would allow a young person who wants to run on his own to receive support in the community through the emphasis of the signature of support for young citizens in a numerical or proportional number of inhabitants. The term of office of the Youth Council. Members of the Youth Council, Article 12, says members of the Youth Council and their deputies are elected for a period of three years. According to the experience of participating in the work of several advisory bodies and, according to good European and other practices, there are provisions on the limitation of mandates per year and the number of times that members can be elected. The text of the bill does not present such a solution at the moment, thus giving the possibility for a member who has not contributed enough to the work of the council to be re-elected by the representative body of the unit of local or regional self-government. The proposal, where we propose to add in the first indent the text: "...and can be selected no more than twice.". In a number of cases, members of the council received compensation for their work from the amounts foreseen for the normal work of other working bodies up to the minimum monthly salaries. The proposal for a new law of compensation as such is still not foreseen but there is still no mechanism to prevent the abuse of the right to compensation for coming to meetings and other costs which were often justified for regular monthly payments independent of engagement. We should focus primarily on the serious problem and the main problem of young people in us, which is primarily youth unemployment in the Republic of Croatia. Croatia has one of the highest unemployment rates for young people from among European countries. Nearly 84 thousand young people aged 15 to 24 don't get schooled and have no job. According to Eurostat, we are another country in Europe in terms of youth unemployment with an unemployment rate of not more than 33.4%. This year, the youth unemployment rate of the entire European Union was around 14%. It shows exactly how much we are coughing for Europe as far as youth employment is concerned. By the way, the unemployment rate in the Republic of Croatia according to the State Statistics Institute for the month of March this year is 18.1%. That youth unemployment in the age structure of Croatia is a problem we have been facing for a long time shows the fact that the highest number of unemployment between 20 and 29 years of age. Youth unemployment trends have not changed significantly since 2001. Young people around the world today face the same or similar problems. Unfortunately, most young people work in the gray economy system. In most cases, young people work for a certain time, seasonal affairs, or occasionally through temporary employment agencies. Their working relationship is characterized by a large number of overtime, small wages, poor job protection, poor and insecure jobs, lack of social protection without the possibility of professional training and career advancement or further education. Young women are exposed to discrimination in employment and employment. Thus, the rate of unemployed young women is 59.5% and men 40.5% in total youth unemployment. All these disadvantages take after themselves and other consequences. In fact, because of their poor material status, young people get married and start families. Every other Croatian resident between the ages of 25 and 29 lives with his parents. It is not surprising, therefore, that Croatia today is faced with the problems it faces and the democratic problem of ageing the population. And to finish because it is already late hours, not to delay, this proposal does not necessarily solve the problem of involving young people in social and public as... the life of the local community but with further improvements we hope that this law will be much better in the second reading and we will support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52170	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, a colleague, Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52171	I thank the esteemed vice president. Respected deputy ministers, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. Youth unemployment is still not a topic of major debate, although in all indicators it should take first place on the list of priorities for resolution. But what's going on? We instead of solving problems like this today practically all day long as someone says we're digging into the bones of the past. To be clear, I'm in pain of wounds and our fathers and grandfathers, I'm in pain of injuries to the victims of the Homeland War, but I'm in pain of the wounds of our youngsters, I'm in pain of brain draining, I'm in pain of poor motivation for the education of our youngsters, I'm in pain of increasing the cost of eating in student cafeterias, I'm in pain of huge unemployment. According to EUROSTAT, we have already heard from several exhibitions that it is 51% for young people under 25. According to our Minister Mrsic, it is 19.3%. Whoever's right is a big percentage. Germany has 7.7% of unemployed young people. They say this is the first generation of young people to live worse than their parents. On behalf of the HDSSB club, we supported Minister Mrsic's measures for professional training without a working relationship, and the minister said he was able to hire 13,000 people, 13,000 young people. The excellent measure we have supported and every such measure we will continue to support. However, there is a situation that after a year of such volunteering, the internships of these young people return to the employment office without being enrolled any day of work in the workbook. That's the sad thing, so it's already visible that this measure was just a ceasefire. But if I were to return to the proposal for a law on the advice of young people or to make a proposal for a law on the advice of a lost generation. That's right, lost generations. This proposal is good, it has its shortcomings. The previous clubs have already brought about these shortcomings that I also support. I particularly support the presentation of counterpart Batinic from the HNS club that spoke about the law itself. Good things are in the law that the advice of young people can now be persons up to 30 years old, but it is a relatively good decision or bill to choose the advice of young people for 3 years, not as so far for 2 years. I would suggest that it be a four-year term because I believe that in three years, practically nothing special can happen in the development of young people's advice. I'm also interested in the financing of young people's advice. Article 22 tells us that the local and regional self-government units provide financial resources for the work and work programme of youth councils. The members of the Youth Council do not receive compensation for their work, but paragraph 3 speaks to us members of the Youth Council have the right to compensate for the cost of coming to meetings, as well as other costs directly related to work and membership in the Youth Council in accordance with the Decision establishing a Youth Council. What that means is they have the right to make up for the cost of coming to the sessions, whether it's shoe and how much it can amount to, who will prescribe it, and there could be virtually malversion there again. I also disagree with the proposal of Article 14 which states that meetings of youth councils are held once every three months. I bet the sessions should be more common. We are also witnessing positive and negative examples of the work of young people’s advice. As a positive example, I can highlight the Youth Council of Osijek and the Youth Council of Osijek-Baranja County. They were named two years ago by the "Young Croatia" network as the two most active Youth Councils in the Republic of Croatia. However, here I also have a letter from the president of the Youth Council from a small town in the Republic of Croatia, and she wrote to me about how the Youth Council works in a small town, which is practically before bankruptcy. She wrote it like this. "The City Council of Youth has been working since 2007. Despite the fact that, in accordance with the existing Statute, the Council should have an impact on the preparation, decision-making and implementation of decisions of the City Council which are of interest to young people and thus on the better position of young people in its city and on solving youth problems. That's inconclusive. Why? For the simple reason that the leadership of the city has fulfilled its legal obligation and participated in the formation of the Youth Council does not want and has absolutely no desire and interest to listen to the proposals, criticisms and suggestions of the city body from its draft. The current assembly, which has adopted a work programme for its two-year term, thanks to the enthusiasm of the members, has not received a single kuna from the city budget for its action. All actions so far and various debates are organised in cooperation with city associations without money, because other than the Youth Money Council, they do not have an association." Therefore, those main objectives of the Youth Council should be to actively involve young people in public and political life, to advocate and promote the interests and attitudes of young people on the principles of tolerance, understanding, and participation and respect for the rights and needs of young people, the impact of youth on social policy and employment policy. However, without strong fiscal capacity, local self-government units will not be more active in involving young people in the work of the Youth Council. I hope that by the second reading, the Proposer will respect the proposals of both the HDSSB and other clubs in order for Youth Councils to become important bodies in local and regional self-government units. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52172	Thank you, too. Replica Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52173	Comrade Chešek, I agree with you that Youth Councils should become more active and indeed this case that you mentioned to me is clearly written by a colleague who is in the Youth Council. This law is settled. In fact, the Law in this now variant, so not this existing law regulates, has a whole head that refers to the relationship between the Council of Youth and the representative body. For example, it is said that to the Council of Youth, members of the Youth Council should be provided with all the materials and all calls at the session, as well as all the other council members of the local self-government, that the representative of the Youth Council may and should participate in the meetings of the presidential body, i.e. that the presidential body must discuss at the first next session all that the Council of Youth proposes to him. So, you object to this very new Law on Provisions that didn't exist in the old one will actually be removed. About the funding because there were already several discussions, you mentioned it. It is important to say that the law in some ways sets a little different advice for young people. So, the advice of young people will no longer be able to do as projects have done so far. It's a business association. And in that sense, the costs for the work of the Youth Council are actually minimal, small. Therefore, it is simply that the regular costs that exist for the functioning of the presidential bodies in them are simply the advice of young people. Same materials, hold a session in local self-government. Therefore, the only concrete cost is the travel expenses for coming to the meeting of members and members of the Youth Council. Because it's really not about the means.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52174	The answer to the replica Igor Češek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52175	Thank you. Well, colleagues, I agree with you. I've just praised some of this bill. I've had a few remarks. However, what I consider a personal problem is unemployment among these very young people. Because when you're not busy or motivated by anything else, and especially when it happens to you here, and if you're accidentally enthusiastic and you want to join the Youth Council, then let's just say political seniors don't really allow it. I'm not saying it's a common case, but it does. And we need to talk about these problems right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52176	We're moving on to an individual debate. First up, colleague Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52177	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Your Honor, Madam Deputy Associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here we've been discussing youth problems, we've heard a lot of qualifications and arguments that are the problems of the young population in general, we've heard something, and in this law we have to say in the end. But I would tell you, and I might be referring to this debate, i.e. the replicas that have been changed by my colleague Lugarić and my colleague, Češek. So the interest is young and if we look at it means only the body of young people, although they are not chronologically in large spaces often have completely different needs and interests. So, by definition, young people are 16 to 30 years old. So, if we're talking about young people, not children. And in that case, the problems of a 16-year-old, meaning a high school kid, someone who goes to college, someone who works, you have young people who have their own families. So, at the age of 25, they already have children. So their needs and problems are not equal. And it's hard to qualify it with some flat-rates, so they're all unemployed, so they have no interest. I wouldn't see it that way. But to get back on the subject and that's this law. I'd like to get attached to some debates, too. I am simply the problem of the Youth and Action Council, involving young people in local self-government units, I am looking through two levels, and that is how it is implemented. I will draw attention once again, so on the second article of the bill, first paragraph. Youth advice is established as advisory bodies of units of local and regional... that promote. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] [[/Intruder Zgrebec: Turn on the microphone! Comrade Matteljan, don't turn it off.]] Yeah, yeah. Now give him a warning. Promoting and defending the rights, needs and interests of young people in local and regional, or regional self-government. So often this article, which he wrote and in the past law, was simply not understood or well interpreted, or carried out. These are advisory bodies of representative bodies, not executive bodies. And I think we should repeat the ad infinitum if someone didn't realize it. It is very nice for the president or members of the Youth Council to meet with the mayor, the mayor, the mayor. But their primary interest should be the president of the representative body, not the executive. So, let me take a look at the practice. There's been a lot of talk about it, so I won't be too long on some things. Young people’s advice has been done by now as associations for the most part. So, if they were provided with some financial resources, they were used for certain projects. These projects of truth hands on the heart could have been very useful to the community, very useful to young people but it was essentially not a job of the Youth Council. It's the work of an association, an association that in the competitions that enquires units of local self-government receive funds for that. Another problem is the natural establishment of the Youth Council. We also saw colleagues and colleagues mention in their discussions in many units of local self-government, so they were not established. And we talked to the board with, among us, the head of the smaller environments, which are the problems of putting together a Youth Council. Uninformed is definitely one of the problems, and I agree with my colleague Banic and everyone else who mentioned it. So young people don't even know what the advice of young people is. Again, as in most of my debates, I say that education is one part of and prevention, i.e. the solution to the problem, and I believe that through action it means primarily through the school system and the preparation of young people for responsible civil life can prevent it or solve it. So civic education is very important here. But you have another problem, a definitive problem, which is indifference. In this segment they can agree with their colleague, Czech Republic, it is unfortunate that before the student and student populations it was the one who was the bearer, the initiator of it, the critic of the regime, the bearer of change if you will. Even regimes trembled in front of the rebel student population. I don't remember in the '70s, but I'm a historian, so I know that then the student riots really rocked the former state. We're talking about history today, aren't we? Today we've agreed that the population of young people is one of our most passive populations in fact. Not only in political but generally in social life. Funding, so we mentioned in some cases they had insurance funds in some they didn't. Where they had those funds, they didn't spend the way they should have. So they were acting like an association. At the end of the council, i.e. the assembly and work through my work in units, i.e. the representative bodies of local self-government units in the city of Osijek and the County Assembly of Osijek-Baranja County, I saw often the president of the Youth Council was invited but never took his word. Only under point Report on the work of the Youth Council and only if someone has asked for an introductory explanation. So, counterpart Banic said that if we put together similar bodies or similar politically similar bodies, this very way of assembling the body is not guaranteed that it will be proactive or that it will be passive. Therefore, I think that all young people should be given a chance to hear it, but first of all, the initiative should come from them no matter how politically or otherwise they are colored. So, I think one of the main problems is that the advice is not set up in most units, largely not in most units of local self-government and why? That's exactly what my colleagues and colleagues were talking about, so I wouldn't hold on to it. As far as the new law is concerned, I'd like to point out a few things here. So, the term of office of three years is defined, and we're on the board and we get an explanation why and I can agree with that. So, two years is too little, four years is too much if you consider how young people live. So if high school kids can get out of the apartment, and if they're from college they can go back to their place of residence and find a job somewhere further give God or there are already other reasons why they might be the most mobile segment of society. There is enforcement control, I like it very much, and I would love it if the initiative of our parent committee, the Committee on Family, Youth and Sports, would be that we are informed about this implementation. So let's just see how the law is implemented. We're also witnessing that our laws unless they prescribe sanctions if you haven't done something, they rarely have any effect. Perhaps the promoter should also consider some kind of sanctions, but what kind of sanctions we can discuss here, so I'm not smart enough to suggest a specific sanction, but I agree that it should be. So let the sanctions be symbolic maybe, some wall of shame let's call it conditional but that it exists. So how do more units of local self-government motivate to set up tips? This may be one thing, but also informing young people is another. I also like what is defined as a youth association. So far we've had very plastic interpretations of it. From the fact that some representative bodies of local self-government units did not take into account political underages to the fact that almost exclusively members of political youth were taken into account, which is of course not good. I agree that all youth organisations should participate in the work, but not in an exclusive way. Also, the individual's candidacy. In my view, it is a good thing that we can also give individuals who are active, so they need to gather a number of support to give them a chance to participate in the Youth Council. But what worries me is who will they answer for their work? Those nominated by the political youth associations and similar to those nominated by them, but to whom do those who have made themselves conditionally suggested themselves respond? And finally, I would like to welcome that the leaders, meaning the executive authorities of the local self-government unit, submit a report on work means in the last year on issues related to youth issues. I find that extremely positive. This should certainly be highlighted as a step, one major step in this law compared to the previous one. And so I hold that the regulation of how many times you have to meet is desirable but let's keep in mind if it's prescribed that you have to meet once in three months that doesn't mean you can't meet more often. It can be met every day if it's necessary, but it doesn't have to. This is how we guarantee a minimum, but it does not determine, means it does not limit any meeting of representatives of the council, or members of the Youth Council, and more often if they wish. In the end, I support this law, and I believe that in the second reading we will fix these let me say the cosmetics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52178	Thank you. Replica Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52179	Well, a colleague, even though you weren't a participant of those times, and you certainly were from parents or older people who heard what time it was in the '70s when a liberal spirit took hold of all the pores of society. The young had faith in themselves, and they changed it well, and the very rigid system then trembled. and other institutions of social life and the Church were all covered by this one youth and their efforts. What do we have today? That's what you say when you especially apostrophe what youth needs today, so first of all education encouraging, learning for democracy, civil education. When you teach him about democracy you teach him his rights but also his responsibilities and encourage him to live this active social life. Why today, young people who are also invited by local self-government units to the council, they have something to do with all this more formal part of it, they don't even understand the current social issues. Before people were 16, 17, 18 not to talk about 19 years of measuringly talking to grown and experienced people, I don't have it today, but it's systematically done. Please, here's an example in Zadar. In the '80s, the late 1970s, we made a great modern home for young people. What happened back in the '90s? The key in the lock, the young were expelled and then through the war someone got sold T-shirts and panties. Each year, or every term, young people are promised to have their home built because young people must also have conditions. So this is the form of one which now the law allows us, transparently and obligation is the local community but the young must have their place of gathering. It is inadmissible in the local community to force them to do so first, it is their obligation to give young people, not just promises, and young people are inexperienced in this regard, and I cannot understand that some local government can lie so facelessly and this is happening to them from mandate to mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52180	Reply to the replica Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52181	Well, thank you, colleagues, first of all, for the replica. I would say here today we have heard a lot about democratic pluralist society in this debate about the Constitution or the amendments to the Constitution, but democracy needs to know how to live.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52182	And Sonja König replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52183	Thank you very much, Vice President. I will not agree with you as the replica usually requires, but I will absolutely agree with you and with your proposal on setting up a wall of shame if I understand correctly if those who make decisions and do not use resources do not use perception of opportunities, skills and skills of young people absolutely deserve to be on the stage of shame.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52184	It is up to colleagues Ivanka Roksandić to discuss.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52185	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Deputys with a co-worker, co-workers and colleagues. Well, first of all, I'm sorry that we're really discussing this issue here at this hour, and I see that there are a lot of people who want to discuss it and it's an important topic. And today there was not a single club, and here's colleagues of Hajdukovic so they wouldn't almost sign everything we said to each other. That's very important. Important and I will remember in 2007 when some of us first discussed here this Law on Youth Tips when I just have to admit I gladly supported this law no matter what it was and now in the implementation we see for these 6 years that it had shortcomings, and the laws are best controlled through their implementation, so they are also being written, and it is good that only after six years we have seen what has not been good in these six years. But at the moment when we passed that first law that is now in force, when we said the law was passed first and foremost to encourage young people to engage in public and social life, and then we said that, unfortunately that law was not a mechanism entirely. Why? Because we are older, I speak on purpose to those of us who have been involved in local self-government units or regional self-government and mayors and mayors and representatives of the representatives of the representative bodies just by our inaction, have made it impossible for young people to decide. I also agree with what counterpart Hajdukovic said that it is indeed an increasingly minor interest of young people to engage in social life at all, and I will not speak politically. If you don't have a spring in the party, then you don't even have the youth's thoughts to possibly engage in politics. That's why it's a good thing we're back here invoking a debate over this law. I sincerely hope that these mechanisms that you have tried to improve will encourage those who have not yet established advice to set them up but will encourage even more those who have founded them but only formal colleagues and colleagues and we have now heard what bodies are made up of 5, 7, 10 or as many people who come or do not come to the meetings of representative bodies or do not involve themselves. We have good examples and I won't repeat it if it's already late but I really want to ask this proposed law a few questions and maybe contribute to a solution or because it's the first reading that's good is you'll look at all our proposals and maybe some solutions. I would ask that Article 5(2) reads as follows: "The units of local and regional (regional) self-government are required in an appropriate manner within the framework of the means available to provide advice for young people", so it is stated what should be ensured." Let's not use that word properly. You know why? Because that mayor or mayor or anyone else is going to tell you that I have that and that's all I'm going to provide, and we're not going to do it again because of that word that can mean anything, and we're not going to do it again because we're changing the law. I beg you to make that word appropriate, is that in the law what it means appropriate? I agree with all of them, and I will not repeat myself who have spoken about the fact that he has fully explained himself and changed the choice of members of youth counsel which is good. It is even good that these informal groups, although they will not answer to anyone but it is good for them to have the right, precisely because only those who have organisations and political parties or associations do not propose but also people who are interested and among them have young people who are interested in working and are supported by their smaller environment that they also get involved in such work, so this is quite good. I'm going to go back to something that was said here several times today on behalf of clubs and individual debates. That's it. I'll say famous funding. Look, this law is hard to implement if we don't change you and yourself know the Law on the financing of local self-government, regional and regional self-government. It will remain empty on paper again. I agree that these young people should not be compensated. I also like what my colleague Lugaric said and she encouraged me to think and I work for a long time in representative bodies and here what she said that this advice should be understood by those who are the heads of the representative bodies as another working body, then it would get its full form. Somewhere in the units of local self-government colleagues and fellow committees for young people, but it's not a committee, this is something else, this is an advisory body. However, the same is the advisory body you must provide him with some financial resources. In the town of Sisak, it wasn't about programs but it advised many times a representative body and about where it should be opened and the home of young people, so we're based on their proposal, I'm now going to say our former home, which was called Pioneer, opened as theater 21. It's a youth theater. On the basis of the proposal, Mary is laughing, as Plan 21, but not in plan 21, but as theater 21. So, a place where only young people gather for the work of associations not to mention. And on the very proposal of this advice of young people to the city council. However, these advices of young people have been used more, colleagues and colleagues, do not be angry that you are the mayors of the municipalities and mayors, not to be found hurt by them, for their propaganda and for their promotion, but for the representative body. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Most of the time. So I'm asking you to really clarify this funding. Because, look, you have an article 20 that says, "If the programme of work of youth advice for the implementation of planned activities provides for the need to secure financial resources, according to the law, is provided in the budget...", that I do not read everything and we do not waste time. And then you say in Article 22 that members of the Youth Council do not receive compensation for their work, which I agree, but that they have the right to compensate for the cost of coming to meetings as well as other costs directly related to membership in the Youth Council. Look at a small town in a small town, you really don't need to secure a lot of resources because these young people will come from that place. However, when it comes to young people's advice at the county level there is a different situation for you. There, indeed, young people will have to have their means provided, and we will have to force leaders, or representative bodies, to secure these funds in the budget. Because for example, I'm going to tell you, I come from Sisak-Moslavina County, which is spatially very large. This is what you have in Splitko-Dalmatia and all the counties that are connected to the islands. From the Court to Sisak your ticket costs you a return bus table and some kuna. How a young man if he comes from the Court and has the right to come from the Court for advice will provide every time money for this if he does not provide him with a budget for this particular needs. But unless funds are provided in that budget, there are no criminal provisions. So, I... laws, and I often say about any law, laws are not written, and they don't exist, not to be implemented, but to be implemented. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And therefore there should be no criminal provisions. But I'm asking you that when you've already introduced surveillance and you've been introduced by the Ministry of Youth, you might want to talk and see if it's possible to do surveillance of the Department of Administration. Because for all the representative bodies for their documents, their statutes, their regulations are competent to the Ministry of Administration. I know it may be a interference between each other's responsibilities. But you as the Ministry of Youth Affairs won't be able to do anything to the local self-government unit or regional if she hasn't secured the funds. You won't be able to do anything if she couldn't, if she didn't start her own advice. You will be supervised but you have no criminal provisions, no ministries in charge of implementing that law on local self-government, regional and regional. And I think it's going to be difficult to implement. Here's the time, I think we need to support the law, and we all have to work to make young people feel that we, too, are giving them the right not only to consult, perhaps the right to decide in certain situations as regards representative bodies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52186	Thank you very much. Sunny Head, here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52187	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I'll continue with my colleague Roxandić, where you left off. So, about what we've been having problems with, and at the board's meeting, which is, if we don't secure the resources for young people's advice, then we can't expect miracles because we can't build a house if we don't have at least a brick, so it's clear to everyone. As for setting up advice for young people, we are all aware, we can recognize it in a loud way, especially the mayors and mayors of cities, that the advice of young people usually appear in the media, and that when they are formed, so the press conference is usually made, the mayor comes in nice, the mayor or mayor comes in, everyone says that we have established a advice of young people, the form we have satisfied, but in the follow-up of the programme we remain at the reception and we are usually left out of content. That's what can't change any laws, just like you can't get someone by the law to have working habits if he just didn't get them. We expect from young people the advice of young people to be an advisory body in fact in a political sense and they actually have their first political step there because they are discussing politics. At which level it is now less important, however, they are actually engaged in consulting what politicians decide on, and we young people need to give them a chance to enter politics in this way. Are we going to turn the story around on the other hand and ask why there is no advice from young people somewhere, and we are witnessing that we have such cities and counties and municipalities? We have two reasons. One might be that the leader did not have the will or did not want to implement the law, and another that we have the abstinence of young people who want to engage actively in this way, as well as advisoryly in one of these bodies. It is up to us to at least in the legal framework to prevent and what I asked the deputy ladies at first to answer me, and I have not yet received an answer, are we actually going to allow at least to participate those who want them when they already have them, to enable them to participate actively when they want them, when they are there, and not that by some political decision or political shift, we are actually breaking them against the law because I do not think that in this way we will engage young people more actively in the advice of young people or ultimately, through the advice of young people, I do not know colleague Lugaric herself, she was still engaged as a young woman not only in the advice of young people, but in creating a youth policy, so in such a way that we can filter out young people who will one day see that they represent politics at a higher level. In England and Germany, it is called participatory democracy, so they actively participate in democratic processes, decide what is important for their city and their municipality, and it does not have to concern only a part of the circle of young people. When we talk about young people and ourselves, we have increased the age limit to 30 years, so let's not just think that these are young people who are young and in a way that have not achieved anything in their career, but that they may be active and superior sometimes, unlike some city councilmen, municipal councilmen, they can decide and have a good opinion, a quality opinion in order to advance some proposal. As for the division of work, so to call it, what has happened in recent years, and here I have data from several counties, Sibenik-Knin example, Međimurje County, so the advice of young people may not have been defined in their role until the end, so sometimes their jurisdiction, to call it, overlapped with the jurisdiction of the associations. So they would organize concerts, do other things that they shouldn't have done. We are that, that is, you have prescribed it well in the law, and I welcome it. And as for some examples from our European environment, for example, countries like Great Britain or Portugal have regional advice from young people, and they are in the system of national councils. So maybe this is just one piece of a mosaic that we can think about whether we should perhaps raise the advice of young people or involve these young people or their presidents in the national level. Maybe they'd learn new skills, get new experiences, maybe open up a wider space for them. If nothing else, we'd open up a space for them to exchange experiences. Not the same colleague in Dubrovnik-Neretva County or colleagues in Osijek-Baranja, or young people do not all have the same problems except for the problem we were talking about, which is the general problem of unemployment. But we're talking about a range of people up to 30, their interests are different, their priorities are different. So let's also think about getting them involved in more active participation at national level. We have here to say good examples of countries in our environment. In Kosovo and Albania, it is interesting that centres for youth and youth clubs have been established locally, which have gradually grown into so-called "young" clubs. Advisory bodies for local self-government and also join national youth councils. So we have someone to learn from, why don't we if you want and rewrite what's good, we don't have to invent something new, we just need to use those good experiences that we actually have in our environment. Since a lot has already been said on behalf of our club and colleagues who have spoken about it, I think just one small remark on Article 27(4) where you actually say that the unit of local, regional or regional self-government is obliged, at the request of the ministry, to submit once a year information on the implementation of this law. I don't think that should be at the Ministry's request, but that they are obliged to deliver. I think this is unnecessary at the Ministry's request because then we should actually expect that the ministry of every municipality, city, county reminds them to inform them please send us. I think it's completely unnecessary and that we could definitely exclude this from this paragraph 4 so they don't have to be on demand but they are. Of course, young people can talk much younger than us, young people will always have their specific requirements, their problems. How many of them, in the best sense here, can actually say that themselves, those directly involved in the work of the Youth Council or who are not involved because they were not enabled for any reason, and tomorrow we will have a whole set of reports from our defenders, and there may be opportunities to talk about what kind of relationship young people are in and on the labour market and about discrimination and employment, etc. I think there's going to be a lot of issues where actually young people expect help from us. They do not expect mercy, but expect help and expect us to pass quality laws that will help them in their daily activities and work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52188	Thank you very much. Replica Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52189	Thank you, Vice President. So, fellow Glavak, in your debate, you asked yourself why you made it impossible for young people to work alluding to what you said in the replica, excuse the deputy minister. So, alluding to the disbandment of the Youth Council in the municipality of Lower King. So, I'll have your free interpretation if I can say so to oppose a portion of the text read from the minutes from the municipal session where this event took place, so where did the disbanding of young people happen? So the Council of Young People in the municipality of Lower King is disbanded that fact, it was not disbanded by the President of the Municipal Council because it cannot do so. So he was disbanded by the Municipal Council. The reason for the disbandment was not the political inadequacy of the Council that you insinuated in your replica, as most members of the Council were youth from HDZ. You said that two HDZ members were, and in fact, the fact is that of the 7 members of the 5 is members of the HDZ, and the 2 were from the SDP. So the reason for the disbandment is the complete inactivity of the Youth Council. So they did not hold a single session in their term of office. And that's why there was so much halabuca, and that's what happened to you and the fact that the father of the president of the Youth Council was dissatisfied with the fact that it was disbanding. So it doesn't stand what you said to allow young people to work. These, this advice didn't work at all and that's the only reason he was disbanded. Or you might think that youth councils, especially when they're made up of HDZ, shouldn't be disbanded even when they're doing nothing, so when they're dead letters on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52190	The answer to the replica of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52191	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Jelash, it's about the process of disbanding. The disbanding institute doesn't exist, that's what I was talking about on the board, and I was talking about it, and I was actually asking the deputy minister what she was going to do because it was actually against the law. Did someone informally or officially in a party tell you once again that at the head of the council I said that I was a non-party person, that two persons were from the Croatian Democratic Community, four non-party persons and one SDP person. So, what are these young people gonna think of us? That we use the political stage again or the political bickering. It's not my intention at all. My intention is only to act in accordance with the law, if the disbanding institute does not exist, if it was illegal, then there is a procedure and the law prescribes what it seems then. Of course, it did not disbanded the chairman of the SDP Council, but it was already on her proposal. And I think things are very clear and that there is a need for the competent ministry to act in accordance with the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52192	Thank you, too. A new replica of respected representative Ante Babic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52193	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Your colleagues Glavak spoke about participatory democracy and you supported some examples from England and Germany, so you went back a little bit to this close environment of ours. However, in 23 years of Croatia's country when you move from one system to another and when you have imposed war, refugees, peaceful reintegration, when you are being joined by the EU, the harmonisation of all these laws is a lot for one human life. And there is a lot of it and it must have been reflected on young people in the Republic of Croatia. Some have been talking tonight about the fact that local politicians and politicians at local level are not looking after it and are not actually consulting this Youth Council as an advisory body. I would not agree with that, because all of us at the local level with our own programs, our desire is to win these elections, so we also respect the advice that comes from young people. But what is very important and should be pointed out tonight is that through the means of public communication, young people are not immune to this perception of politicians who are quite negative, so they are, too, through this Youth Council, actually showing themselves to local politicians and actually not telling them what they are pressuring them, everything that would actually be useful for them as young people, I am not going to tell you part of the trade because they are members of certain sports associations, cultural associations, and then they are partly courting local politicians to get more for their sports or cultural associations and that should be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52194	The reply to the replica of the esteemed representative of the Sunana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52195	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here you are, joining us for a discussion about young people who are worthy of praise. I'm glad you're consulting with your Youth Council, and I hope it's not just because you need it for the election and I hope it's not an intention because otherwise we'd get into a situation you know what to say. Giving money and power to the government is like giving alcohol and car keys to a teenager. Therefore, I believe that no one's intention. However, once again I repeat the fact that we have two problems, which is either young because of the way it is shown, and the work of the Croatian Parliament is not interested in any way in dealing with politics, even if it was also advisory or individual leaders did not simply recognise or respect the law and acted in accordance with the law, they formed the advice of young people. So politics is actually perception. The perception of us is made by the media, and we saw for ourselves what happened to us when they said we were on vacation for 10 days. I think that we should all act together in this direction, and also through the Youth Council, maybe start to change the perception of politicians in general. Today was the thematic session of the Media Committee, we talked about HRT and a longtime editor very well-known face from the screen with laughter followed the fact that the other night we worked until 9:00 and then they said, and there was no television transmission, so nobody knows that. So politics is perception. If we do not create a good picture of ourselves, we will find it difficult to convince someone to engage, especially young ones, to engage in any kind of political life.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52196	Thank you very much. We continue with individual... What? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It is. On behalf of the motionary of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the esteemed Deputy Minister Maja Sporish. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52197	Thank you very much. Here, I owe you an answer. In a specific case, I will not enter the Lower King now, since I am not completely in the details, the information is conflicting. But what is a fact is that this bill between the two readings obviously requires the introduction of provisions that will regulate the release of counsel but, in those cases, because of inertness, it means worklessness. That's what we absolutely have to do. On the other hand, what was all the time being indirectly and more or less in each presentation mentioned it was a matter of sanctions. There are no sanctions in the current law or in this proposal, I'm not assuming that the predecessors and we couldn't prescribe them for the same reason, and that's to hack into the Law on Local Self-Government, and that's what's already being said here. Also said is a very good proposal that we actually took by public publication of the report, the public Stigma. The public publication of the Report on the functioning or failure of the advice is, for example, one of the most effective soft measures we can at the moment. Also, I think we will adopt a proposal, and it is a great proposal for a joint inspection by the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and the Ministry of Administration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52198	Thank you, too, dear deputy. Now we're moving on to an individual debate of MPs again. Tomislav Zhagar, a respected representative, and your 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52199	Thank you, esteemed President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, co-workers and colleagues. There's nine o'clock, we're lucky the young haven't come out yet, so maybe they can hear us. It is certainly necessary to support this bill because it brings a number of good solutions to help establish and function the work of the Youth Council. The intensity of this law is not certain that we from young people create politicians but to enable them to participate in democratic procedures of interest and importance for young people. It is clear and illusory to expect that this law will solve key issues in itself, and these are the issues of motivation for young people to participate in the council as well as the units of local self-government to go into this process of establishing both the constitution and the very action of the advice. I'd just like to look back, I haven't raised a line because it's too late, my colleague Glavak said that one of the problems could be financing. I'd just like to point out the fact that there are, and that's certainly to say hello, there are small municipalities of the 2.5 million kuna budget, which per 250,000 kuna each year are allotted for sport. It's to say hello, they're young in sports. And I think if it's an alibi to local self-government units for not setting up advice for his expenses, it's not a clear and good argument. Young people, of course, are apolitical, and that shows all the research. They are poorly motivated to participate in political processes. Is that also because of the part that you cited earlier in your debate, is some other reason simply a fact. What we have to consider as adult young people as a resource, not a problem. The view of our daily life shows, of course, with the help of a large part of the media to focus, on the problems that young people create in society. As a result, violence among young people is usually dominated by public space, their frequent use of harmful means such as alcohol, cigarettes, drugs and other forms of addiction, as well as the mention of young drivers and drivers as the most common causes of traffic accidents. Youth policy is an adequate response to most of the needs of young people of a particular community. It marks the government’s intention to deal systematically with the problems and needs of young people. The integration of young people in the construction of this policy, their involvement in decision-making processes and other activities at regional and local level by the authorities is a prerequisite for the democratisation of each society. Each youth policy implies the existence of a fundamental infrastructure i.e. an institutional framework for the implementation, monitoring and evaluation of the implementation of local youth policy, which should be the main strategy and guidelines for the development of the youth sector, should be established. Since 2002, when the Croatian Parliament adopted the first National Programme for Youth action at the end of 2005 when the Operational Programme for the implementation of this programme for the period 2006-2007 was adopted and in July 2009, when the Government adopted the National Youth Programme 2009-2014 and thus the existing Law of 1602/2007 set out the frameworks in which the advice could act. However, a number of problems have arisen in law enforcement itself, and we can put them in two groups. The first problem is related to units of local and regional self-government because a partial number is not as we heard it has not fulfilled its legal obligation at all. Of course, as far as the criminal provisions that are not in this law are concerned, it is difficult at all to predict or propose adequate measures to make it, this one idea is good for the wall of shame. Except that there is no will there is no capacity in terms of education and information in terms of... youth advice. What my colleague Glavak said must be young people who have something to say. For the fourth time, it seems to me, and I have to say it here openly, that those in the council might be more competent and professional than the members of the representative body themselves, so maybe it's the demotivation of the members of the representative body themselves to set up youth councils. Problems related to the functioning of youth councils should, in fact, just point out what was manifested as the biggest problem that young people's advice did not fulfil their role as their primary tasks but were already implemented projects and designed projects, which are civil society projects, is not really their job. What was also seen as a problem was that they were not involved in the work of the council congregation although they needed to do so, and then it was defined as their inactivity. The existing legal framework did not closely determine the purpose of existence and their role in the life and work of the local community, and then all stakeholders from the ranks and themselves from the representatives of established youth councils, the Youth Association and for young people and several units of local and regional (regional) self-government launched an initiative to amend the law. Since these changes were extensive, the proposal for a completely new law came. The previous debate covers several good solutions. I would especially point out that a meeting with the president of the representative body every three months is an extremely good solution. The truth when spoken for at least once every three months and the obligation is constitutional and legal that and the representative body... for three months would otherwise go into disbandment. In this regard, at least in such a way as to ensure that this meeting and the possibility for more smaller units of local self-government to establish a joint council, this is a very good solution. how it is in practice and whether it is feasible we can see it but it is a very good solution. That's why I don't hold it any longer since it's too late for this bill to be supported anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52200	Thank you too, dear colleague. It's time for the Honorable Representative Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52201	Your Honor, Mr. President, the esteemed Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Given that it is quite late in my debate I will try to be very concise and point to some technical problems or some legal vacuum that exists at the level of all units of local self-government. But above all, I think that it is essential to point out the lack of interest, apathy, unrequitedness, and passivity of all young people demanding inclusion in some kind of social life or social events at the level of their local community. So if we compare the existing law with the proposal for a new law, it can be said that this is a significantly improved normative legal act. Since the current legal framework has not been carefully regulated by the purpose of the existence of advice from young people and their role in the life and work of the local community. So a good part of the speakers before me pointed to absolute indicators of how many youth advices were based on county levels, at city levels, at the level of municipalities. I'm going to try to give it some kind of relative amount. So as far as the county districts are concerned, they've done their job within 91%, cities 77%, municipalities about 30%, which indicate a huge problem in rural areas. Clearly, then, the advice of young people did not come to life in the municipalities and the question is when will it come? If you take the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia into account then you come up with even more devastating facts, which is that the overall formation or operation of youth councils has been recorded on about 33 to 44% and 50% of the territory of the Republic of Croatia is not covered by the advice of young people, i.e. it is one indicator that young people are absolutely unwilling to participate in all of this, but on the other hand it also indicates the abuse of executive bodies, or mayors, and mayors and mayors in certain local communities that do not. In my opinion, the Proposer has seen a clear need to define the concepts and roles, i.e. the part-rounding of youth councils. Therefore, as a longtime town councilman, I am personally looking forward to a more serious approach to this issue and ultimately its understanding because it clearly stresses the principle of non-discrimination, partnership, cooperation and proactive participation of young people. So I put the emphasis on the word of non-discriminatory action. It is clear that the selection of members of youth councils in this bill, the publication of public calls on official websites is very important for the transparency and availability of information and publication of the results on official websites, which has not been the case so far. It was mostly published in the official ballots of local self-government units or even worse situation when the local self-government unit officially told us so that the information must be published in the official county vote. So the information is available, but it's so cumbersome and blurry that no one can see it. So by putting that information on the website, I think it'll solve a lot of problems. The element envisaged by the new draft law is that the representative body resolves the duties of members of the Youth Council who is missing more than 50% of the sessions. So it's such an interesting control mechanism and you need to see how he's going to live in practice since the old law didn't make it possible. What I think should be particularly welcomed is the relationship between the representative body, the advice of young people and the executive body, for example. the delivery of all calls and materials for the work sessions of the representative body from held sessions at the same time as both the city and municipal or county council members are delivered. In addition, the Executive Body, or the Mayor, or the Mayor, or the Mayor, shall, on an annual basis, notify the advice of young people on relevant topics and activities that have taken place and discussed or have been brought by the Executive Body. Let me remind this occasion of some of the important elements of 25 years ago that happened in Europe, because Europe, 25 years ago, actually recognized the importance of involving young people in political events as well as the development of democratic societies. So I think it is very important to highlight the ongoing conference of local and regional authorities in Europe, which organised two conferences on youth policy and the first one in '88. years in... , the second one in '91. years in Laguna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Afterwards, the Permanent Conference adopted Resolution 237, Article 22 of the European Charter on Youth Participation in Local and Regional Life with a total of 42 points. So, the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities in the European Union to the Council of Europe in cooperation with the Council of Europe's Youth and Sports Directorate, 11 years ago, was organised in Krakow, so-called a Krakow conference titled "Young People Carrying Activities in Their Cities and Regions". The purpose of the conference was to assess progress made in the field of youth action during the ten-year existence of the Charter. The debate on further promoting youth participation and the dissemination of information on good examples from practice is therefore a positive exchange of experiences. And I think that the advice of young people should also rest and work on the principles of the European Charter in the participation of young people in local and regional lives. So, the participants of the conference adopted the so-called A Krakow declaration confirming that young people are citizens of municipalities and cities in which they live in the same way as any age group, confirming the role of young people in the development of democratic societies in particular local and regional life. The whole project within the Council of the European Union has been confirmed and this is the functioning of democratic institutions. And the need to respond to new challenges that young people face in modern life has been recognised. Therefore, the essential provisions of the Krakow Declaration should be some basic guidelines for the work and functioning of youth advice on units of local self-government or local communities. It is requested through the Krakow Declaration that the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities and the Advisory Council on Young Council of Europe appoints experts to prepare proposals and additions to the European Charter and that the European Charter has survived one, already one amendment and addition, and the European Charter on the participation of young people in municipalities and regions is now able to say so in a Colloquitically prepared for the 21st century because of essential elements such as information society, urban uncertainty and flexicurity as a question of the continuity of education. Working consultation meetings were held in 2002 and 2003, and as a result of their work, the basis for the current version of the Charter, which I hope a good part of the representatives and councilors within the representative bodies know. Personally, at the end of the debate, I would like to say that I will support this bill, of course, with the suggestion that the deputy already said that it is currently impossible to impose any sanctions, let's say corrective measures. But let me point to one truly practical illogicality from this place. So, hypothetically, if we know that there is an old legal basis for a Youth Council, the advice of young people has a two-year term, i.e. a term of office. if the term of office expires 15. The 3rd spot is not responding. So the competition, it enters that summer period, the break when representative bodies do not take place and most of the competitions, i.e. public calls are made at 9 months. So it's been almost half a year. Then you have a situation that until it's published in the public ballot, while the bids are collected, another month, a month and a half, and then you come in December. The end of the 11th, the beginning of the 12th month when key topics are adoption of the budget, this is a marginal theme and it is being transferred to next year. So what do you do in situations like this when it's been a year? In my view, it might be good to think in a way that, in the draft law, an element should be incorporated until the second reading that tenders or public calls must be made public at least three months before the end of the term of office of the current Youth Council. It's the only way we can have that continuity. And as for the projects and the financial structure, because otherwise we're wasting our time for a minimum of 6 months, so I dare say up to 12 months, or up to a year, even though I wish it wasn't a practice in more units of local self-government. Here's to this part so much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52202	Thank you, too. We are going to the replicas of the respected representative Ante Babic and his replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52203	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Well, fellow Roman, I must say that I was very impressed by your debate and that I agree with everything you've said, but I'm interested in you because you warned me about a vacuum in the vast majority of local administration units and self-government especially in that rural area where there's about 30% and those who are... advice from young people. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The truth is, I think that this number is correct because Croatia cannot look through Osijek, Rijeka, Zagreb, Split, large cities but we must know that there are such units of local self-government especially on islands or in Dalmatia, in Lika which simply cannot reach young people in such a way that they and through that part, let's say, are institutionalised, that they are through the advice of young people as much as they attend the meetings of municipal or city councils. I know from experience and from talking to colleagues that it's one serious and big problem. They are not against it, however, insisting on it, but the results are devastating. And one thing I didn't like, you said we have to, we need, we need... We need to warn them, you know, through coercion, especially towards young people, we're going to have a hard time doing something. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And you said it might be late, I don't think it's, since we young people have learned to go out until around eleven and midnight, they're just going to turn on the little screens right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52204	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52205	Very short. So you didn't understand me well, your intention was not to put pressure on you, but to the executive bodies of the local self-government unit, so mayors, mayors and mayors who should encourage you and the representative bodies to make public calls, that is to say, a decision on the formation of advice from young people. That's the first part. And the second part, unfortunately, when I was talking about the legal vacuum, I didn't mean the rural environments, or the municipalities, because there's a built-up advice for young people a third, so 33.3%, it's exactly like that, but primarily local self-government units where youth advice already works. So I'm going to take an example of the city of Vinkovci where you from the moment the advice of the young break-up takes nine months to establish a new council. So there's no talk about continuity and the implementation of any projects, that's the problem. So on that principle, I think that we must think and act all together and the opposition and the positions both in the Parliament and in the representative bodies because the young are in some way, so this is the consequence of politics. As politicians, we disgusted them, we have to say so, and they don't want to participate in it. An additional positive example again must be highlighted by Vinkovci on the other hand where we have children's councils involving children from the 5th grade of primary school to the 8th grade of primary school. So this is another additional element where representative bodies or units of local self-government can function. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52206	All the portals report that young people stay with TVs and don't go out tonight. New replica and respected representative Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52207	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Dear fellow Members, you have particularly praised the obligation of municipalities and cities on their websites to publish competitions for young people’s advice. Well, I have to warn you, unfortunately, I don't even like the fact in 2013 that many municipalities still don't have their official websites, so I don't want to, I don't know what word I'd even use, with disgust. We warned this when discussing the Law on Youth Tips and the Youth Committee, which my ministry colleagues promised to consider, in some other way, to announce the competitions until all municipalities and cities have established their official websites, but this has also offered me now that counterpart Hajdukovic mentioned this pillar of shame, that the municipalities and cities that are here almost at the end of 2013 do not have their official websites. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52208	The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative of Damir Rimac.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52209	Just for a little while. So I deeply doubt that the financial reasons are those who do not allow the website to be opened. Renting a domain per year costs 500 kuna, with VAT, without VAT, less important. 500 kuna. If you are that unit of local self-government, the municipality cannot provide that, then it is indeed the right question to ask whether the justification for the existence of such a municipality is necessary. On the other hand, I would put more emphasis on not financial reasons than motivation. So I may be wrong to my soul but to the executive bodies or bodies of the unit of local self-government, but also representative, it may be in the interest that the information does not see the light of day. So when we talk about young people, the vast majority of young people don't read newspapers, the vast majority of young people don't listen to television, don't listen to radio, but they're on the Internet. So I guarantee by the law of probability mathematically, if they spend 6 to 7 hours a day with the internet they will spend at least half an hour minimum on the site of their municipality, their city, their county and review and learn the most important news. If nothing else, they'll look into it to see if there's a job competition open. That's logic, maybe I'm wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52210	Thank you very much. A new replica and respected representative of the Sunana Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Only one depression, so this new legal solution, or legal proposal, allows us to bridge those barriers so-called. conditionally speaking, the small municipalities, so we've bridged it. I agree with you, our young people live in a large online community and what I absolutely support, and in a way we are bound by municipalities, cities and the law on access to information, so the website, the pillar of shame, everything you've said. But you actually asked me to rephrase it because I couldn't take away the impression that when you said what kind of experiences you had as a young person, so 10 years or maybe more ago, I'm not saying you're old because something younger and than me, I checked. But here's a fellow Roman we need that smile, that's the smile you had when you guys got hot because when you were a young person, you had a chance to be paroled, the old people would say in the white world, so we saw something in the world. So we need that smile among the people who will want to sit in the counsel of the young. So let's not say that this is my idea, and that year, and we all liked it better when we were 20 years younger. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52212	You're gathering experiences. Please respond to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52213	Well, there's nothing I can say but that I'm very happy that my smile has made you happy, and I hope that it will be so in the future. But regarding your comment that the vast majority of young people are that the online community is connected, so the proposal is to let young people connect themselves, so the Krakow Declaration points to that, exchange of experiences. What I appealed to most of it in my debate, so we need to see if that's possible. Personally, if there is a possibility, I would install in the legal provision the European Charter on the participation of young people in municipalities and cities, i.e. in my regions, because in those 40, 50 points that stand there, so this is one plan and programme where young people need nothing but take it, read and choose 6 or 7 points that are applicable to their community locally and start working on them. So there were speeches about associations, there were talks about other things. But I think that would be quite enough for a solid start. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52214	It was a replica of the respected representative Damir Rimac. We're going to have a discussion. Dear Representative Tatjana Šimac-Bonačić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52215	Thank you very much, Mr. President, ma'am, for your co-workers, colleagues and colleagues. When we talk about young people then it must be the main thing that, or what they require of us, is to see them and hear them no matter what role they played as parents, whether as breeders, whether as politicians, local leaders, regional self-government. So I think this law goes in that direction, of course, I'm sure of it, but it's not a magic wand. Young people need a systematic approach. Here I am glad that a colleague before me also mentioned forums of young people and society our children and children's city council. Hence, they need to tell us how they need help. That is why this counsel, or counseling role of young people, is in this direction to satisfy that we need to hear and see young people. All of us who worked in local self-government or were the leaders of local self-government I think we saw that there were, there were a lot of problems when we were actually working on advice. The problem with the procedure, the problem with functioning, the most trouble with the fact that our young people didn't actually report to the competitions. I would also say that such a law is welcome, regardless of which it is an amendment and an addition to the law precisely because it is one of the few laws that actually regulates the position of young people, actually in various areas, I am talking about young people. However, this is quite a law that regulates the position of young people. Personally, I believe that such a bill actually covered those shortcomings, most of the shortcomings that the previous law had said. In today’s society, youths play a very difficult role precisely because of the existence, economic and social problems. And for one of the essential factors of their difficult position is actually their passivation, and in this way there can be neither expression nor creativity nor all of their possibilities that can actually be used positively to help themselves. When we look at why this is so, we must stress that there is a problem of mistrust that governs the social, political system towards young people. It is then mutual mistrust and lack of cooperation between young and political institutions, and the mistrust of young people towards social political institutions. All that says is that it's all the result of even a declarative approach to politics towards young people, because we know that we've been making a variety of strategies, that we've had this kind of law, but young senses, we can't cheat on them, that we're actually in favour of them. When we look at their little political influence, we know that they are the electoral body when you look at over 22% to 25% of the electoral body, but our young ones won't go into politics either. But let's get back to the law. I welcome all these changes that the ministry has made, and I'm going to cut short for not repeating it because the predecessors talked about it. However, I will highlight three key provisions, which is that this bill, however, gives these amendments a guarantee that the Youth Council will function more than before because if they are not present at meetings of over 50%, they can actually be left without their mandate. I think this is a very good provision. Then the provisions which clearly determine what the Councils of Youth will have to deal with, and the provisions they find, require closer cooperation between the President of the City Council and the President of the Youth Council. As far as the deadlines are concerned, everything is said. Once a month, three times a month. It doesn't matter. The young will actually meet as needed. As far as the fee is concerned, I'm not for young people to receive benefits, because I think that's how we teach them wrong. Young people need to have secured space, secure resources for work, possibly paid for the trip, but we need to teach them the part to give to themselves through society to give for themselves. That way, we teach them eventually maybe volunteering. When I do, this is actually a single step towards improvement, to the right of inclusion means no more declarative. And in the end, I'm going to say four things that are very important to me, which is the structure that is also in the opening word and said by the Deputy Minister. It's a structure, a focus, it's a double communication, and it's a joint work. I think these are very, very important things that actually show us what changes are making and supplementing this law. And as far as the provisions of disbandation are concerned, I don't think we can say it this way, but as far as punishment is concerned, we can't do it either, but simply by some kind of public display of who made the advice, who didn't. I think that's how we're going to achieve a lot with the conscientious ones, and we hope that politicians are and should be aware. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52216	Thank you, too, Your Honor. New debate and respected representative Sasa Djujic. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52217	Thank you, Mr. President, Madam Deputy Minister with an associate, colleague and colleague. There's a lot that's been said on this subject tonight. I will try not to repeat myself, but I have a few things to say, even on some of my personal experiences, since I was a member of the First Assembly of the Youth Council of the Primorje-Gorski County, so I remember the problems we faced through the work of the Council. The fact is, today we have heard several times here statistics on how many tips today are essentially founded, as far as it is not, at Croatia level. I think that statistics are even worse because some of the advice has been established, but at the end of the term, their mandate has not been extended at all. So they're in some dead term, and they're on this list as established, and they don't actually work. So the situation on the ground may be much worse today than it seems. This confirms that the current law that is in force has not been fully implemented but I am pleased that it was passed in 2007 because here is a colleague, Roksandić, who said it takes some time for the laws to live in the field and that the law was not passed in 2007 and that the law as it was passed today would probably have nothing to discuss. And this new bill solves a lot of problems that the current law has not solved and is also not ideal and is not perfect and will not solve all problems. So we'll probably in some future I hope that as soon as we change this law and try to come up with some new solutions. The thing I would like to stress is that the main problem was the motivation of young people precisely in involving the work of advice. We have cities and municipalities and some counties in which competitions have been repeated several times, which simply did not report enough candidates, and I think that this problem has been solved with this series of proposals that give greater role and strength to the Council of Youth, so I believe that young people will become more active and motivated to work in the councils when they know that they still play a stronger role than the current way of working, which is precisely these provisions that prescribe that the president of the Council of Youth is invited to the meetings of the City and the Municipal Council, that he has regular meetings with the president of the representative body. And that's where I would go back to what I said earlier that I would have prescribed exactly that these meetings not only with the president of the council and that the possibility of the other members of the council be given instead of having a meeting once in three months with all the members of the Youth Council and that it would be prescribed. The big thing is that once a year, the mayor reports in writing to the Youth Council on all topics and decisions made by the city on youth issues. Also, this youth sanctions if they do not attend more than 50% of the sessions and are automatically excluded from the council. More precisely, a way of choosing is defined as we've all heard here together, and that candid basis has been expanded. So, informal groups can now be organised and run in some places, but it is much more precisely defined which of these legal forms can be proposed, since so far so far have been the same problems that associations or organisations have had to prove to young people, what they do, how they deal with. I think it's a lot easier here on its own, which could lead to much better results. What I want to say here now is what most colleagues did not say today and what most of it opposes I personally do not object to fees for the work of members of the Youth Council. I don't see anything wrong with that. And right now I want to explain why. This proposal, which is now under the law, strictly prohibits fees. I'd allow the possibility that those units I can give someone a fee should give it to them. And precisely on the grounds that a large part of the young people, I think, is said by my colleague Babic or colleague Glavak, are not only young unemployed depressed persons who watch that they will flee from Croatia but also have young people who are successful, who are entrepreneurs, who are working, who have some job and something that they are dealing with, and just as members of the city and municipal councils see that there are compensations that would be for the day when they are at that session, for example, and we cannot stay in their place of work, and here I will tell you again on the example of the Primorje-Gorski County that in most towns and municipalities, and even in the county itself within the unit of local administration, there is one person in charge of the work of Youth Council, and it is usually up to you that council meetings must be convened in the working time of the city or the municipalities because those in charge do not want to stay early, and then let these young members come to get to work with their jobs. That is my opinion, and I think that we should give in, that is, the opportunity as it has been until now, that those cities and municipalities that can afford to do so and that part of the job for young people to receive that compensation. I don't see anything wrong with that. Especially here, I don't know, there's someone who said the same thing, I can say again on the example of my city. I don't think young people learn anything wrong with those fees. For example, in my town, a football club gets 800 thousand kuna per year for work, a third-party club, most of the funds goes on fees or salaries to senior team players. And if we know that young people from 16 to 30 are playing football because after 30 years they're old, it just matches this age line where the advice of young people sits. So if there are fees in sports where it's very important that I don't see why, I think the money in the local environments is going to be paid to all committees for various organisations, so I don't see why they would cut off this particular most important group in society. So it's those young people who are supposed to be the future and the foundation of every unit and every environment that they're being punished and they're not entitled to compensation. Here, that's my attitude. I think I said more or less. I support all the debates I've had so far, I don't feel like it's going to work out for me, so everyone's been on the right track. I certainly support this law and there have been a lot of good suggestions and I hope that until the second reading will be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52218	Thank you, too. Next up is Honorable representative Nadica Jelash. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52219	I would like to thank the esteemed president, the esteemed deputies, colleagues and colleagues. So I will start my debate with the data that out of the total number of unemployed in Croatia, a third are young. So, hundreds of thousands of young people in Croatia are currently out of work, so there is no primary possibility of solving some or some of the basic existential problems. A huge number of 30 - year - olds live with their parents today, not because it is their choice but because elections do not have, even that generational relationship that generational solidarity completely changed, so rather than young people taking care of the elderly, the elderly unfortunately care for the young. It is clear from this that the young generation is faced with major problems from employment and work, education, health insurance, social care and all the way to recreation and entertainment. On the other hand, we are witnessing what is related to these problems almost and amazingly with one great lack of interest among young people in politics and then, of course, for involvement in the authorities. young people see neither the purpose nor the purpose of political engagement, so they do not recognize this political engagement as tools that can change their position or solve their problems. It is particularly difficult to get young people to engage in local environments, and local environments are exactly where we face the most specific problems of life, working or not, there is a free time or one word to live there. In my opinion, the young people are just dealing with these problems that I've been talking about must be involved in the work of representative authorities. I just don't think they should care about who and how they decide to spend budget money, which projects are being realised, which the needs of citizens are being met, which are not, where their interests are being fulfilled in all of this, so the interests of young people can't be their own way of deciding about their future and then the future of all because we tell them young people are our future. On the other hand, local communities need ideas of young people, their energy, their freshness of mind, their lack of experience and the speed of reactions due to the networking of modern communication technologies. So so far the advice of young people is an attempt to actively engage in the public life of local communities, unfortunately in too many cases it has failed the attempt. In fact, a large number of local self-government units have not even established the advice of young people, so from 429 municipalities that we have in Croatia only 143 have established the advice of young people, and where the advice established is very unequal, so we have one very unequal practice with the fact that to the greatest extent possible, this relationship is determined by the relationship between the first man of the executive authority of the mayor, mayor or mayor even though the advice of the young advisory body is representative, not executive authorities. Talks on youth interests have largely come down to sports activities so far and designing content to fill the free time of young people as if young people had no other interests, and before I said how many problems they had. Youth advice should be equal actors in making decisions of public interest, should be partners with adult decision makers, or as someone today told seniors to make decisions, to cooperate with them, to consult them, rather than to have adult relations with very often underestimating that they do not respect young people, to ignore them and then to give up young people sooner or later on withheld and disappointed by the relationship between representative and executive authorities. Young people I know from experience are primarily not informed enough, are not instructed about the possibilities of engagement and then influence, lack and administrative, and then, as we have heard today, financial support. Youth advice should be a kind of incubators where young people learn how to engage equally in the decision-making process in local areas. So I repeat, young people need to be educated. I therefore welcome that this legislative proposal establishes a far better regulation of the relationship between youth councils and representative bodies of local self-government units. There is much more to this legislative proposal than any provision which therefore binds which are not university. Thus, the representative bodies are required to regularly submit to the Youth Council calls for meetings, working materials and session records, further representatives of the representative body, with the Chairman of the Council, to hold regular meetings. It is a good legal option for several units of local self-government to set up a joint advice for young people. Why is that good? This is good because the rational solution is cost-related, but also the contribution of connecting young people to a particular game, so to speak, because agile ambitious individuals from one local environment can encourage young people from another environment, and in this synergy of action, they will get better results. It is good that the municipal chief, mayor and mayor undertakes to submit to the Youth Council an annual report on their activities that are of interest to young people. It is good that local and regional self-government leaders commit to providing budgets for the work of youth councils. It is a good thing that all units of local self-government have not yet established advice from young people to do so within 6 months of the entry into force of this law. And finally, I support the provision that candidates for youth councils running by an informal group of young people, which is new in this legislative proposal, should collect signatures of support. I say this from experience because there are very ambitious young people, especially those with a certain political experience that is not the goal of engagement for public good, but of achieving some of their own interests. It is good, then, to collect signatures of support because these support, or signatures, are a kind of reference, a guarantee that young people know one another and will work for the interests of all, not just for themselves, so that they will not in any way privatise the advice of young people. And finally, I remind you of what we have already said and what the deputy perceived, so that the legislative proposal is complemented by the provision of disbanding counsel in the event of its inactivity. By proposing that the evaluation of the activity or inactivity be given by a representative body whose advice is the advisory body. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52220	Thank you, too, Your Honor. It's time for Ivana Posavec the Guilty.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52221	I would like to thank the Honorable President, so first of all, if you would allow me to even commend the return of the theme of youth to the agenda of the Croatian Parliament, i.e. the highest representative body in the Republic of Croatia. I will certainly link this to the fact that for the first time in history we have a ministry that carries young people in its name. It means one policy change to me, it means one brighter future to me, and it actually shows that for the first time now, and we see it from the proposing representatives here today, young people create a youth policy. In the media, a law on youth has also been announced by the deputy deputy. I believe that we will have it very soon in our benches and that it will actually be a systematic policy that will strategically direct and give some guidance. I'm saying this because it's almost 10 o'clock in the evening, they're gonna say it's late, but I don't think we who stayed here can let it be too late to talk about young people at any time because by our number and there's all of us somewhere 10 o'clock in the morning, it's clear that this topic has to remain current. It must remain current and for reasons why if you look at our composition here then clearly that we are either somehow close to the youth category for many years or we have found ourselves so far... Yes, that's right, or so far we have found ourselves in a situation that we have had the opportunity to work on exactly these topics concerning young people, whether as leaders of units of local or regional self-government, whether as educational workers, whether as active members of civil society and probably from all these experiences each of us can have a different and different experience, we can contribute to actually being realized now that we have seen a series of shortcomings trying to fix and give a better picture. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] And so today, here we are with some distance maybe 10 years from that government that first began to deal with youth issues we are under one law, there we said in 2007 now in 2013 and for me this law is a big step. The big step is so much that he actually showed all the shortcomings that people pointed out from the field and accepted. And it is through this legislative proposal that a series of improvements that will no longer depend on who is the head of the unit of local or regional self-government, what its worldview is and what it has to think, or vision or openness to young people. We've already set up here through clear legal bases what the story should look like, we've given it the frames, and we haven't really left anything to the case. Here we can talk about it from the duration of the term of office of youth councils, the way of elections, the proposings to what is most important to me and that is its function. We forget all the time that it's an advisory function. And that's actually a function that involves certain relationships. In order for us to be able to consult, we have to cooperate, we have to work, we need to know what this unit of local self-government has prepared as maybe strategic projects or documents that will determine the future through an unknown overall development programme or some other segments and what it will offer young people for a short or long term. If there is no relationship with the representative body that we need through the advice of young people to be an advisory function, if there is no report of the leader, if there is no cooperation and meetings, then how will the advice work at all? And I think that's what happened to us in the field. I think that precisely because of this incoherence and inability to cooperate with representatives of the representative body in the units of local self-government for lack of access to documents, because of the closure and even then this fact that a colleague has said that today a series of local self-government units has neither transparently nor publicly on the web shown what he deals with, the documents that he brings to a strict division in the executive, representative government. I think this is one big step. Of course, we must all be careful together that this step does not remain a dead letter on paper because it often happens with these advices that have been set up and that we actually need to go through this segment here, what counterpart Nadica said to the educational segment, in fact, all together to make sure that the debate on the advice of young people doesn't end up at first reading or second reading of the lawmaking process, but in fact that we are going to be the ones who are going to promote, influence and certainly there might be room for the inclusion of the Ministry of Management as one body that normally oversees the work of local self-government units in the application of the law to see if we can make it a little more binding for these young people to be the holders of all these planning documents. And now I'm just going to say one example because we've all said I've worked with young people for years. I am very proud that I have had the opportunity to establish the advice of young people as the head of the local self-government unit. But I'm proud of the two terms we've done. I am proud that the person who was anti-candidate to me in the direct campaign elections entered as a person who wanted to fight for a better position for young people. It happened that I beat him in the election but then we sat down and I offered him to be president of the youth council when it was the establishment of the council. He got a chance to get into one ring, see what it's like to do, which is a unit of local self-government. Today, when I am no longer the head of this small municipality, that person who was the first president of the Youth Council is today the head of my community. We are far different political options. So it is not crucial to be political thinkers, it is not crucial that we have some starting basis that comes from politics, but it is important for us to be a common goal of improving the environment in which we live, to create better conditions for young people, and I just think that it is certainly a platform that will grow up to be quality people from tomorrow who will understand local policy, which will install through programmes and through projects and that will really lead to, for example, what is a particular challenge for all of them today, for example, European Union, European experience and European youth participation in creating a better, younger and somehow more pro-pulsive Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52222	Thank you very much. It is up to the honourable representative of Hrvoje Nekic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52223	President-in-Office of the Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So the Law on Youth Tips is extremely important, it is extremely necessary and I must admit a little regret that this debate is being held in such late hours, and I also hope that the second reading will be in the morning hours so that most young people can follow this debate directly. This formulation, I am sure, will make a major contribution to improving the quality of life of young people in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. As most of us know, so young people in the Republic of Croatia are considered persons aged between 15 and 30, unfortunately I no longer belong to that age group but I am not too far away from it. Social empowerment of young people and protection is one of the basic constitutional principles whose implementation is ensured by the implementation of different regulations, documents, continued work of the Croatian Government advisory bodies by providing financial support to youth-oriented civil society organisations and international cooperation. Respecting young people as a group of particular importance for the development of society, I would say that they are a fundamental group to which special attention should be paid and which should be approached with special respect. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has opened up a space for the creation of better conditions in achieving their rights, meeting the needs and active participation in society at national and local level in order to be able to contribute as much as possible to the construction of both social life and the creation of their own future. Furthermore, only the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth and for the purpose of raising the quality of life of young people and a clear and long-term commitment to the creation of social, educational, educational, cultural, material and other conditions for the lasting well-being of young people and their active, full and responsible participation in the social community implements a number of measures, and one of these measures is this bill that was set before us. As regards the very preparation of this law, it is important to point out that the Ministry of Social Policy and Youth has organised a series of public consultations held in a number of cities throughout the Republic of Croatia and all in order to gain more quality insight into the opinion of the interested public regarding the draft law on changes and additions to the Law on Youth Councils. The very purpose of the consultation was to gather information on the interests of the public, attitudes and proposals in order to make this bill as high as possible, as was the aim of the consultation to facilitate interaction with citizens and representatives of the interested public in the process of amending and supplementing the law and to encourage more active participation of young people in public life. After all the public debates carried out, this law is regulated among other things, but I would not like to repeat all this now because it is too late, therefore from the establishment and composition of the advice of young people to the monitoring and implementation of the law. I think it is more important to say that this law, I really hope, with adequate youth education will encourage young people to actively engage in community work and thus contribute to society as a whole. Unfortunately, I have to say that especially since I come from a smaller environment, young people have very little perspective in the smaller environments. What unfortunately is in my midst, as well as the surrounding places, is that the vast majority of young people spend their free time in parks, on benches, unfortunately with cigarettes and alcohol. It's actually a defeating data and that's exactly what's on us. So we have a responsibility to encourage and motivate them to participate, so we are the ones who need to interest young people to actively engage in public life. Finally, I would no longer like to extend, so the adoption of this law will take a major step in regulating and consulting young people, and it will contribute to the transparency of the implementation of the process of setting up and selecting advice for young people, ensuring that the advice of young people is the advisory bodies of the unit of local and regional self-government, all in order to improve the quality of life both young and community as a whole. And for the end, of course, I support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-16-0.u52224	Next is the proposal for a law on youth advice, first reading, P.Z. No. 457. The debate on the proposal is closed. In line with the proposals from the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. Proposal for a Law on Youth Tips, 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'd like to make our point on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes with 114 votes in favour and four abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
