ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47609	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning. We continue with the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament and point 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 450. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, he will introduce the proposal from Finance Minister Mr Slavko Linic. Here you go, buddy. ... I've already announced. [[I don't know what you're talking about.]] I haven't seen you. You should have called. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47610	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I request a break of 15.00 minutes. Why? Because it is also legally and on the Ministry's website, it is indicated how long it is necessary to draw up guidelines for budgeting. Today is the 19.9th session of the government. On the website of the Ministry of Finance, according to the government's guidelines, the Ministry of Finance provides the ministries and other state bodies with instructions to draft a state budget. The instructions are also provided to local and regional self-government units. Since it was usually done in seven months. Given that today is 19.9., that there is a meeting of the Government and that there is no proposal on the government's website for this item of the agenda on behalf of the Croatian Democratic Community Club, I am asking for a 15-minute break so that we can manifest ourselves and look for what belongs to us under the Rules of Procedure, i.e. an explanation of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47611	I'm setting a break to 9 and 42. It's 9:00.32. CONTINUATION AFTER 9:40 AM After a break the club requested will be spoken by counterpart Martina Dalic. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47613	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, we asked for this break with the aim of warning this High House too and expressing our concern about the unknowns, and I think to no one in this House except perhaps the Minister of Finance, known reasons why the 2014 budget process has not yet been launched in Croatia. As we all know, the budgetary process is prescribed by the Budget Law and the deadlines are laid down in this law. In this respect, the activities last throughout the first half of the year, culminating in the adoption and establishment of a document of the economic and fiscal policy guidelines to be adopted by the Government on a proposal from the Ministry of Finance. The law stipulates that this deadline is the end of June. I must say that, in practice, this deadline was usually not the end of June, but the Government of Guidelines brought by the end of July as it was in 2012, as was the case with the current Government. Based on these guidelines of the local self-government unit, the same as other ministries are launching budget planning activities for next year, which finally results in the requirement that 15.11. The government must deliver the budget to the Parliament, and the mayors have the same deadline for relevant activities at local level. However, this year, economic and fiscal policy guidelines have not yet been adopted by the government. We are in the second half of the 9th month, which simply means that the state institutions as well as the local self-government units did not get me to express myself green light and did not receive the necessary instructions and the necessary information to start the budgetary process. We are interested in the reasons, which is why the Ministry of Finance did not simply carry out the activities needed to draft the budget this year. Yesterday, too, and these days, we had the opportunity to hear numerous arguments from the minister that the state of state finances is regular, that there are no reasons for concern. On the other hand, we at the HDZ Club think that this is not exactly the case and that it is precisely state-of-state finance and that there is a reason why the Ministry of Finance has not launched the budgetary process for next year, and it is particularly concerned that the Ministry of Finance and the Government are not on the agenda today, and there is not a single point through which it would talk about how and how it is meant to close and regulate the missing amount of revenue in the budget for the first 8 months that amounted to 2.5 billion kuna, and this year it is planned to increase budget revenues by 3.5 billion kuna. Dear colleagues, simple mathematics says the budget is missing at least 6 billion kuna. Not 6 million, not 60 million, 6 billion kunas that have nothing to do with the activities of the previous government, as the current government very often likes to highlight. No savings were achieved on the dissipated side of the plan, though. We therefore estimate that the budget in this year threatens the deficit without the so-called deficit. Health recovery between 16 billion and 17 billion kuna. The historical maximum. Never in its history has the budget had such a deficit as it threatens this year, and it has also never happened that mid-September came without the budget process being launched for next year. We believe that these two events are interlinked, we hold that such a lack and such disproportionateness in the budget threatens the very foundations of the country's financial stability and therefore we want to call on the government to urgently, urgently and urgently and at today's session to show about this problem and start making, offering and implementing measures that will resuscitate this budgetary situation. Because in front of us, it's basically another three budget months. And in the ninth month, both salaries and pensions were paid. And this lack of income I'm talking about in the budget is still standing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47614	Thank you very much. Lock it down.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47615	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47616	Thank you. CONTINUATION OF THE SESSION 9. The meeting of the Croatian Assembly held on 19th. September 2013 Start at 9.30. My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good morning. We continue with the 9th session of the Croatian Parliament and point 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 450. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. On behalf of the promoter, he will introduce the proposal from Finance Minister Mr Slavko Linic. Minister of Finance Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47976	Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. We are again facing the need to amend the Consumer Credit Act. The government changed it in 2012 estimating that the relationship between the banking system of some financial institutions and citizens was not highly regulated and was doing good to the citizens of Croatia. Obviously, the economic crisis that led to the reduction in the number of employees by many rationalisations, which also meant a reduction in income based on wages and pensions, was the reason that many citizens were unable to regularly pay their commitments under completed contracts. And then, of course, when we add capital market turbulence in Europe and the world with frequent changes and interest rates, as well as the ratios of some currencies, and we know that banks have transferred all the risks of such transactions to citizens, that this resulted in an assessment of today's apartments, which is that about 272 thousand citizens with blocked accounts. Unfortunately, many of them have more accounts, so somewhere over 680,000 accounts of Croatian citizens have been blocked, and the amount of outstanding liabilities in that section is over 21 billion. It also significantly increases the percentages of loans that citizens cannot repay, so they are already around 15% of the total credits granted, which is simply why the government began to debate at the beginning of the 3 months to change the Consumer Credit Act with increased citizens' protection in that part. As you can see, it's been six months that the government has used for six months to try to find some dialogue between the interests of citizens, individual civil society and the banking sector and try to define and some correct relations between the parties through this law. This is why the whole procedure has been quite, very long, quite difficult and that we have to admit after six months and have not achieved more significant success in approaching positions in the interests. This is the reason why this legal text also means the government's proposal, which is probably not fully supported by some civil initiatives but is certainly not at the will of the banking system. There are two reasons why numbers and blocked accounts are increasing and the amount of outstanding credit wars is increasing. One reason is for sure loans for residential construction and the economic crisis and the increasing wages and less and less employees, and another reason is the minuses in current accounts that citizens have resorted to in some way try to resolve their obligations. And apparently, these two relationships between citizens and banks have also resulted in changes in this law because it was simply our goal to achieve a better quality relationship here that in some ways we have the protection of those they thought would lose more to these contractual relations, which is to protect citizens. First reading is ahead of you. If we estimate that larger remarks, suggestions and needs for further discussion would probably not be another reading at a very short time. What did we try to regulate with this law? First of all, we have assessed the incorrectness of the banking system that has continuously increased certain fees and even fees that he has not agreed in the first contract with the citizens and with the parties. In this way, he increased his income, and the burden on citizens on credit. And that is why we have laid down in these provisions of the law that after a contract has been concluded no compensation can be paid to citizens so that they are not burdened with new credit obligations. And we also estimated that some fees have nothing to do with the contract being concluded, so it is a suggestion that you give the minister the opportunity to prescribe what fees that can be related to the loan and which the citizens' fees can pay for... these loans. We thus limit the possibility of banks to invest any loans at the time of the contract, but especially the inability to introduce new fees under the concluded contract. We also estimate that in many cases, without written and written reporting, citizens have been burdened with changes, interest changes, changes in conditions, cancellation of the right to minus or overrun by the current account. It is prescribed in these amendments that banks cannot carry out any change in the relationship with the creditor or minuses unless the citizens are informed by written means, and that obligation is simply subject to the obligation of the banking system. At that time, we come up with a subject of variable interest rates which variable interest rates were the reason that the banking system was changing interest rates, that it also agreed on the right to a variable interest rate when making a contract, and that it was simply often able to raise the costs of the loan itself and the obligation for citizens to bear all the burdens at variable interest rates. There are certain solutions where the legal profession is likely to lead a lot of polemics because the banking system is reluctant to accept that we are entering into changing contractual items. Therefore, the contracts the citizens signed are not favourable for them. We estimate that we simply need to change that part and try to protect citizens from the fact that the variable interest rate is a matter of already concluded contracts, especially in the case of newly concluded contracts. I don't think it'll be a problem at the time to accept the solution we've offered. Therefore, we believe that the variable interest rates are very important to indicate exactly which currencies are concerned, which are also the same as the interest rate, which is the margin of the bank and that in that part we estimate that the interest rate, depending on the movement on the market, can be changed until the agreed margin is changed and that is something that has not been present so far. The bank has agreed on an interest rate, so if the market interest is of a particular market, means whether it's liber,..., the eurobor has changed, the banks have raised their margins and have always tried to do so, I would say drop in markets to cancel, achieve their revenues, and when it comes to growth, then growth has gone to the burden of citizens. So we were very rigorous here, we estimate that the market and the change in interest rates on the market should be a risk for the citizens that they make, but the margin must remain fixed and there should be no change in that part. In fact, we believe that we need to limit them even more in the closed contracts. In what way? We estimate that some currencies have had excessive deviations from the exchange rate according to kunas, that this is a risk which due to the currency clause and falls on the burden of whoever signed the contract, but this is our reason to estimate that regardless of the interest on the markets, the interest rate should remain the one that is more favourable to the citizen who concluded the contract, which means that it should not increase if there is a change and the price of capital on the market or a change in the margin. How about those credits where we conclude that the problem is 20 percent appreciation and exchange rate, we go to the protection of citizens with interest. Why the interest rate, because we estimate that banks have drawn citizens to a particular currency right now at a lower interest rate, far more competitive than other currencies. And then we estimate that if the exchange rate risk has already fallen on the citizen that at least it would have had to have an effect on the previously concluded interest. It's probably one of the risk clauses of this law, we don't doubt, because the contractual clause is concluded differently, but it's our assessment that we are proposing to this House this very protection of citizens that essentially one part of the risk of unsuccessful currencies or loans in me would tell risk currencies and not fall completely to citizens but to part of the banking system. Therefore, there will be a lot of debate on whether it is constitutionally sustainable, it is not. We believe that in the protection and protection of citizens it is important to introduce such a clause and in some ways to make it clear to the banks that citizens will not pay more interest if they are too high-risk at rates above 20%. Of course, then we returned to the protection, maximum interest rates that were far easier to determine in Europe because the market categories are somewhere below 1% or about 1% and then the increase for some business bank policy is far easier to determine in Europe. Why, because you add plus 6, plus 7 to the market, so that's about 6, 7, 8% maximum interest. In Croatia, unfortunately, market categories are not this low. The market categories of capital move up to 4.5% because of the country's risk, because of this 3-4% more expensive money for Croatia, so you simply go over 10, 11, 12%, and then when you put it all in the context of housing credits, it's very easy to conclude that it's overpriced capital for long-term debt and that with such safeguard clauses you don't achieve great protection because simply long-term loans with interest above 10% and are not any protection. I have to say that we did have a lot of good cooperation with the banking system, because we tried to figure out how to define the maximum allowed interest rates. So we have proposed articles here specifically defining the maximum allowed interest rate on housing loans in such a way as to try to limit the maximum interest rate to the average interest rate reached per currency in the Republic of Croatia plus one third of such average interest. This means that somewhere slightly more than 5% would be 5 and some maximum interest rate on housing loans. So we didn't define it as fixed. We accept differences between Swiss, euro, kuna and interest on that part but the maximum can be plus one-third. The formulas you find in this section, I say, in some ways, in line with both the banking system and the National Bank. In other consumer credits that are primarily short-term, this is to mean the average rate achieved in the Republic of Croatia for the previous year increased by half and the average interest established. In this way, we estimate that we have managed to achieve that means that those consumer loans are below 10% if they are not long-term housing. These are suggestions if you have any suggestions for a second reading. We'll consider a way to determine interest. Why average? Because even in Europe, when you're looking at it, they're always dealing with an average interest rate that we haven't been following so much for so far because we've always tied ourselves to an escontaneous interest rate that unfortunately can't be used for this kind of purpose anymore because it's a pure accounting category by some regulation of the National Bank. The National Bank can monitor the achievement of interest rates and it will publish the average interest rates for currencies reached. That's how we estimate that we tried to define both the past and the future when it comes to interest rates. A little more discussion in the preparation of this bill very well remember were overruns in the current account or so on. minuses. The huge contribution of these current accounts, overruns in the obligations of citizens and the inability to regularly pay their commitments to banking systems. At the same time, bank policy has changed significantly in the Republic of Croatia. The policy until yesterday was that every bank referencer of its committee, every citizen pulls his sleeve, offers him a minus, offers him credit because simply the banks lived to make more money, bigger profits, more success of the bank. Today it's changed, today it's the other way around. To sanction anyone who is one day late and doesn't understand why they don't serve their obligations so easily. Now these same references take away your citizens' right to a minus, inform them that they have no right to a minus, most of them inform them with a text, telephone, orally, and during the night simply took away their rights to a minus. This was the reason why the government also proposed a formulation that we believe the bank cannot unilaterally reduce the negative. We even felt that minus one salary and is not acceptable because it is a huge number of citizens, which is the most expensive task, the most expensive, and which simply makes citizens insecure with that task. But given the resistance in particular to citizens, we have left the duty to be above one month, but what we have clearly defined here is the obligation to report by written means of citizens that his right to minus is denied, that if he cannot repay the citizen must be secured under the same conditions as minus one-year repayment of that minus or vice versa. If a citizen doesn't accept that he doesn't have a bank right to take his minus. Therefore, we are very clearly trying to level the law of both banks and citizens and simply the bank must find a solution. Either he makes a deal together or he'll offer him a 12-month payment so we don't currently have a citizen in a position to meet his obligations and that he actually has loans with tight interest. We believe that in some way we have secured the citizen's regular payment, the possibility that in a decent time he will pay off his obligations, we have forced the banks to define it in a contractual manner. But in some ways, we're looking for a greater bank responsibility to judge very well who can or can't be defined. And still, what we have suggested in this law is that in law we maximise the total cost of credit. So interest plus compensation, that's what. effective interest rate. And the way we regulated it clearly shows that this cost of credit in Croatia should not be above 11%. These are the measures that we have proposed in this second step in this law, all with the aim of reducing the number of blocked citizens' accounts, reducing citizens' debts and giving citizens more protection in the future compared to the banking system. If we estimate that that is not enough, the government will probably also go with subsequent amendments to this law. And that just means that the Government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to solve the problem and indifference of Croatia but also to prevent me from saying the realisation of those contracts that were once concluded under quite different circumstances, quite other conditions and correcting everything that might not have happened. If the banks had been more responsible, they would have followed the potential and financial potential of each of these citizens who owed these loans would not have been, but neither such difficult decisions would be made in front of the citizens, given that spending money cannot be returned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47977	Thank you, Minister. Now we move on the replicas. Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47978	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, in your opening section, you were talking about the inaccuracy of banks, about a variety of increases in fees, and then I'm asking myself and you a question because in the end we were more or less in the same chair, someone before, someone now, what were those who control the banks doing? It's an elementary question. Do we have to pass the law to say that someone can't do something that someone didn't sign? That's one question clear, and I'll talk more about it later in the debate. However, what I would like to say is that in recent years Croatia has not actually been a member of the EU, but there is now one elemental question, don't you think that this law lex Perkovic has done Croatia far greater damage in the long term, how to the state of Croatian entrepreneurs and also Croatian citizens? Why? Because he sent a message of legal uncertainty. He sent a message unfortunately that Croatia is no longer a country, so they do not look at us, for which the President of the European Commission has told everyone who has been EU candidates how Croatia can do, unfortunately for the past month and a half, two of them no longer say that. Croatia has become a country, unfortunately, warned by some by the country of legal uncertainty. And one of the basic conditions for having cheaper capital is your legal certainty. That's two basic preconditions. This lex Perkovic threw us into the political uncertainty zone, but the most tragic he threw us into the legal uncertainty zone. And therefore, we can make as many laws as we want, but when we do this kind of crap that is far higher and stronger on the market, then we'll pay it far more expensive through a number of other ways.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47979	Thank you very much. Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47980	First of all, I'm the finance minister and I'm not going to get too easily involved in political debates and I'd say debates about the early elections you're looking for. If you think that the issue of relations with the EU in terms of legal gain is something that has an impact on the lives of citizens and something that has an impact on Croatia's rating, then I as a man who, like you, deals with finances, I say you deceive Croatian citizens. Because simply for the lives of the citizens, it has no influence, no influence whatsoever. The Swiss has nothing to do with the relationship with the EU. Relations and banking contracts have nothing to do with it. Therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia is trying to address the situation in the economy with a series of measures and laws in the part. Because we want to train an economy that has not destroyed both the global crisis, neither the EU nor Lex Perkovic but irresponsible policies in the Republic of Croatia. That's number one. Under number two, we've never regulated all deals with citizens. We could, we could. And today we will have controversy whether or not we need to change the already concluded contracts. This government thinks that and that's the topic, are we going to have the courage to tell the banks to change the contracts you've concluded and on the proposals... Therefore, Croatian citizens want to hear what we will do in part of their relationship with banking. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that's the theme.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47981	Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47982	I'll start with what you said you wouldn't get involved in politics. Yesterday was an ideological performance, but today we are discussing a law that is terribly important, but we must not forget that politics adopts and changes the law. Therefore, politics cannot be avoided. What you were just talking about, all the policies are wrong, just politics. Both politics and banks are in a tight relationship, unfortunately in Croatia almost married. One sentence you said, you said that there was probably a good collaboration with the banking system between you or probably the Ministry of Finance and Banks in Croatia. Banks don't have to be so tattooed, banks need to be put under control. There is a book called "The Gods of Money" in which only in 1863, bankers met and said what would happen after the Civil War in America when slavery was abolished. That's when they said there were banks. 150 years later, this intention is being implemented in Croatia. Croatian citizens have become slaves thanks to policies, I agree, not to one policy but to politics. And the CNB unmistakably stands by the banks and tattoos those banks and has done nothing in 23 years to protect Croatian citizens. He's holding a course that's unrealistic and he's worried about price stability. However, the role of the CNB... of the central banks has long changed in the world. The rest later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47983	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47984	Mr. Representative, when we talk about the course, we can say that's the job of the National Bank, but let's not just simplify it as easily. 80% savings, individual savings is currency. Therefore, if there are no exchange rate differences on loans, there will be no exchange rate differences or savings, and that means the possibility of running out with our savings. Today, for the simple reason, you have the right to save in all of Europe today. Yesterday was illegal, but I doubt it would stop anyone. So the story of exchange rates isn't simple, and I'm not going to elaborate now. But when we talk about the job of the National Bank's surveillance banks not to fail, it's her job. The problem with the authorities is to regulate the relationship between citizens and the bank, it's our job, it's not the job of the National Bank. And let us try to understand the responsibility if we do not have enough quality to solve it and to the Government that proposes the laws to the Croatian Parliament and all of us. We've been trying to protect citizens last year with changes that weren't so rigorous, this time for the second time, for a long time we've been negotiating precisely for controversial constitutional provisions because it's not easy to get into everything that's been signed and concluded. And that's why we've been working on this proposal for six months this long. We don't want constitutional charges, we don't want constitutional apologies, we don't want lawsuits, we're trying to avoid them all, we're looking for compromises. In one part, we fail, however, I admit that after six months of difficult negotiations, very few results and we go out with these kind of things, I would say the provisions that one can dispute. We'll see the morale of the banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47985	Thank you. Dujomir Marasovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47986	Your Honor, Madam President. Mr. Minister, you've said many times we're assessing, we're assessing what, I'd agree with a lot of what you said, but I don't agree with one thing, you didn't say that government policy is bad because what you're proposing right now, you tried and you said you needed a people to protect, try to protect them, try to protect them from some kind of relationship mechanism between citizens and banks changing for the benefit of citizens, and I agree with that, and I'll raise you by that hand. But you didn't say that it was the point of things, the point of why the citizens came into this situation that I couldn't repay the loans, that I couldn't pay the rent, that's the point of things. Government policy is bad, and instead of running a policy that leads to you increasing employment and increasing the payload power of our citizens and calling for help and European and world factors, you are doing everything you can and that little environment that has been positive for us to sort of drive him away from us. So I get the feeling that this debate, Mr. Vuksic, sucks, makes me feel too high in this debate today as if Croatia is going to send an army to the borders, not to the Hungarians, but now I guess on Bregan. I don't know if that tank that's... the Prime Minister is gonna send it there. And he thinks Tito is towards Stalin but he's not, he's more like Pavelic, who had 100 soldiers, and he also said war between America and England at the same time. So who are you going to look for money with? You're saying this policy has nothing to do with financial movements. It's all right. Mr. Minister, I believe that our deficit will be 5% and that we will not tailor it here ourselves but will be tailored from Brussels and Brussels will be suspending some money. And how can you say that Croatia will have nothing to do with the financial aspect of all this when they say yesterday in Brussels we will cancel 80, 100 million euros for Schengen. So this is going to have a huge impact on our policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47987	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47988	I don't mind opening a story in the past because obviously that's what we're different about. The SDP settles today and tomorrow, and you deal with the past. But I'll tell you about that past, for 8 years you've been destroying Croatia, HDZ has been destroying Croatia, 8 years you haven't spent one reform, you've spent money on railways, you've paid people, you haven't built railways, you've invested for 8 years, you've spent money on individuals in agriculture, you've spent a little bit of a processed country, you've been completely uncompetitive. Trade companies destroyed, without profits, without funds for their own investments. The private sector was totally destroyed, you pushed it towards the country's investment in housing, that you gentlemen had been destroying for eight years. You want to talk about that past? Well, it's no problem, I'll give you those numbers. You've made up to 200 billion Croatia's debt. You did it, the people in HDZ. And I'm not going to talk about your individual robbery name and last name where court proceedings are being conducted. It's Croatia. That's the kind of Croatia we're trying to bring back. ... Yeah, in 2011, when you were supposed to show everything you left with 15.5 billion minus. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] 15.5 billion. And you didn't have growth, and you didn't have growth. ... We'll see what you had in 2011. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] So, gentlemen, you want to put the story back in the past, you'll always get it. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] You have a huge, huge burden for this state of affairs in the country, and we're the ones trying to solve it. Yeah, you claim you should fire people, you need to cut pensions, you want to cut, that's because there's no other. So be reasonable, don't talk about the past.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47989	Thank you very much. Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47990	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, the intonation of speech differs greatly in your responses to the replication and reasoning of the bill. While you explained the bill you were quite inconclusive as if you didn't believe yourself what you were saying because somehow it was a monotone, pale, without an analysis of the existing state, without assessing the effects after applying any such proposal for a legal solution. There is no structure of credit, there is no structure of interest and amounts paid by specific credit ratings. There is no analysis of how much interest will be paid on these specific credit ratings after the application of this law. It enters market relations, resorts to risk, but given the silence of those concerned by this bill, I don't think it's courage to pass such a law. More courage would also be more effective measures if fiscal policy, together with monetary authority, took some measures in parallel, and I would say for example which. So it always needs to be accessed selectively, differentiated, in accordance with a particular problem. Whether or not the current minus problem will be solved and the interest will be tightened, it won't. The undefined average national cost-financing rate shall be left. Who's going to establish it? Well... who pays for the recovery of banks doesn't know how much savings are secured or can control but only the banks report it, instead of accepting in tax recognition the cost of not accepting an interest rate above, say, 2.5.3% because the resources that affect the amount of interest are purely domestic savings, and that domestic savings is exclusively for those holding banks. They pay themselves that high cost and collect their own... funds. That should be regulated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47991	Thank you very much. Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic. Please take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47992	Mr. Representative, I say again, if you want to discuss the past, there will be a lot of energy on my part to tell Croatian citizens what you've been doing for eight years, what you've been doing. But if we want to talk about the seriousness of how to fix this proposal, there's no need for a high tone, no need to talk about the past. You choose for yourself. Therefore, ask your colleagues what they do in the past and do not deal with the bill. And here it's all written, it's the National Bank that publishes average interest rates for each type of currency in the previous year. Therefore, it is she who monitors banking business, she is the one who determines what needs to be done. And it says it in the law, clearly and loudly. And listen, we have suggested what you want from us, that I assess whether the citizens will return interest, that they will pay interest, how much they will pay interest. You want me to assess that? Well, I have no idea what I'm doing to you, nor do I think of it, because I know that citizens will have trouble serving these debts because we're still going to cut some of the expenditure from the state budget by repairing the damages you've created. What's that gonna mean to the individual, who knows? The estimate is that the banks will not suffer any damage, but they will make less revenue of about 350 million kuna. We have already sent it down to you. Therefore, only lower income in banks, not losses, no damages, less income. They don't need it because they've done bad things. If they gave such bad credits as the Swiss did, then it's time they didn't do it either. So the easiest thing to say is analysis, analysis, analysis, analysis, you're just dealing with analysis. You know that, though, give them to all of us, we'll try to interpret them to the citizens. Solutions are important. Give me suggestions on what to change in solutions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47993	Thank you very much. Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47994	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, you said the main reasons and causes of this burden of inability to repay loans to citizens, stagnations of the economy, layoffs, increased unemployment. Of course, like all of us here, we certainly support any law on additional protection of citizens or any protection of citizens in the end. I wouldn't want to fill you in here, I don't think these are the only two reasons, though they are the biggest, but one of the reasons, that is. Two reasons are, for example, in which the state was actively involved. If, for example, we were reducing wages and what they had before, then they came to the problem of repaying credit because they were entering a single-base credit line, and then the decision was made to have fewer salaries and they began to have difficulties returning loans. On the other hand, people living in the country should be mentioned here. Therefore, the failure to pay the incentives led to the inability to repay the credit and not only to the blockages of the OPG but also to private accounts. And what this law should be, should be some kind of movement, some kind of law to start an economy in Croatia, then certainly get the right results.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47995	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47996	There is no relevant legal effect on the contractual relationship between the party and the government's policy banks. So what you're saying is it's called a political debate because you're going to have to explain to me how we can enter into a contract, in terms of a bank and a client, that a company has failed, so a man has lost his job, what he does in the state service, and he has a 10% lower salary. Get it into the contract, no. You can bring that into your political debate as it has been brought in. But then I'll tell you you didn't pay off a billion kuna commitments in agriculture while you were in power, you didn't pay. You've concluded collective agreements that are unsustainable. You've done it all as a party in power and it's all changing. The political responsibility is whether someone was destroying the state, spending uncontrollably, signing contracts, rights for which this state has no financial capital or power, no. A new government has arrived, the new responsible government of Zoran Milanovic, who unfortunately has to change it and bring the citizens back to reality that in Croatia they live hard and modestly and not on the basis of the false promises and deficits you created. That's what you created because you were part of the government, you promised peasants everything, you offered and paid for a cow's incentive. It doesn't exist! It doesn't exist! It exists in your heads. Gentlemen, that's what we're different about! To be responsible in politics. But it can't be built into a contract between a bank and a party. Therefore, you are politicizing and we from the SDP are also very clearly ordering coalition governments, this is a government message we are simply trying in this relationship contractually to determine certain protections.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47997	And Branko Bacic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47998	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I understand your intention to intervene with this law in this contractual relationship between creditors and debtors, i.e. consumers, and to try to protect the consumer. But the impression, and it seems to me, is such a reality that this government, by its laws and too intervenes, limits, introduces new restrictions that do not contribute to neither production growth nor consumption growth. So I'm going to tell you an example exactly in this part of where you're trying to determine by this law the maximum interest rate on housing loans. So, on the one hand, you're trying to limit it, and on the other hand you and your government have changed, abolished two laws that are in history, so from the creation of the Croatian state, you've so far been granted the best conditions for housing buyers when it comes to interest rates. This is, on the one hand, the Law on subsidisation of housing loans and state guarantees. And on the other hand, a few months ago, you reduced the incentive to housing savings. So, two models that have allowed customers of the lowest interest, a maximum interest of 4.44%, you end and leave the same citizens you want to help today in this way not to raise interest on housing savings, leave them without such subsidies to a contractual relationship with a business bank and then wonder why this same bank and how to reduce housing savings. On the other hand, I repeat, you do not implement this proactive policy where you would allow these same consumers, Croatian citizens, to buy apartments at much lower interest rates than those in Croatia today. In your bill of law, you said that the average rate of 5.37 is at this point the average rate of housing loans. On the other hand, you have abolished the law that allows and which banks have accepted at a maximum interest rate of 4.44% and at the same time reduced state incentives to housing savings that could buy apartments by loans to up to 3 and a half percent of the interest rate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u47999	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48000	Here, as you can see, we're coming back who's destroying the state budget and who's burdening taxpayers. I don't have any government incentives in my pocket, I take them to the citizens. And now we ask ourselves if I take the citizens to whom I give them? In residential savings, you have an enormous savings of rich people who don't buy apartments at all, but they don't get low interest in banks, but in housing savings with our incentives. I take an ordinary worker to give to a rich man. Households don't even build apartments anymore, they don't build apartments. It's basic to them from the Treasury to take money, and that's what rich people take. That's my analysis, that's the coalition government's analysis. And why don't you give us a boost? Why don't we take the taxpayers, the poor worker and push them towards the rich? That's true. Have you noticed that we have 30% more apartments than families? 30%. Croatia is the second country owned by apartments, second country owned by apartments Third, okay. Gentlemen, what does that mean? [[Intruder: Third.]] We're making a fortune on the property of the citizens, on the property. Can he maintain apartments? He can't. Can she pay for the apartments? He can't. Can he invest? He can't. We have poor citizens who are among the richest in Europe. Now I'm asking if maybe it's an apartment, a crane, a new job. Then explain to me why we have 15000 unsold apartments in Zagreb alone, and probably in all Croatia and 40,000. Therefore, you should try to implement such a policy. In this government, we don't want to give money to the rich, and we don't want to invest in something that we don't think is going to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48001	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Thanks, they don't want to. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48002	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister, the debate is expected to go in a very strong direction. However, between my previous intervention and now I have been warned by my colleagues that today is your birthday, which means that I, on behalf of the HDZ Club, and my personal wish to congratulate you on your birthday. . So, every good thing we want a minister for his birthday, but that, of course, in what I want and intend to say about our subject will not diminish the edge of our criticism. [[Applause.]] So here during these discussions and replicas, a lot of interesting topics were opened and the minister pointed to, among other things, the length of time that passed between the time when this law was announced in a certain way even today when it was in the first reading. So it's been about five months. The minister explained it with his arguments, but we at the HDZ Club think that this is actually about one entirely different reason. I remind you, the law was announced about the end of April, somewhere in the second half of April. As a coincidence, it was announced shortly before the local elections, and there was a lot of talk that this law was making many provisions that would make life easier for the citizens, especially for the citizens in charge of the Swiss francs. However, just these five months that have passed between that moment and today when we have it in our first reading, which means it will still be a few months before the law takes effect in itself indicates that such announcements and these arguments are not really credible. Namely, consultation with the public i.e. The public debate on the law ended on May 31st, and everything is actually happening at snail speed. We think, therefore, that the government has really had in mind the well-being of citizens who swear so much, that it really believes that there are instruments in this law to improve the position of one part of the population, which due to the burden of paying off the loan came into a difficult position of life, then it would probably push this law much faster through the procedure. Because after the end of the public debate, by the end of the summer session, it was a month and a half. It could have been in that month and a half that it was wanted and thought that the law was important in this way that the law continues to be interpreted and passed. However, we think that after the local elections, after the law was used for that purpose, the government lost its interest in a certain way. Because we also see this often mentioned Law on judicial cooperation or popular Lex Perkovic when the government wants to know very well then and can intervene very quickly through the legislative procedure. We think, therefore, that this law is actually only about an apparent attempt to create an illusion that this law is largely helping citizens and that they are offered solutions to their problems. One of the proofs of this is, apart from this time itself and the stretching of law-making in time, for example. and provisions on maximum interest rates on housing loans and consumer credits. The minister said that, in fact, in defining the maximum allowed interest rates of the bank were quite cooperative and prone to co-operation. So I don't even wonder how this maximum is determined. In fact, at first glance from the point of view of a common man, one who is not worthy of perhaps financial and banking technology, the idea of introducing the highest rate on housing credits may seem noble. However, the way in which the maximum allowed interest rate is determined reveals that there is nothing, and there is no limit. Therefore, the maximum allowed interest rate is determined by calculating the average interest rate on housing loans which is then increased by one-third. Thus, this average, the average interest rate which makes up the maximum, is established by the basis of each individual rate on the housing loans charged by banks. Every time banks change the interest rate on housing loans, the average will change, i.e. if they increase interest on housing loans, the average will also increase. So that limit, that supposedly maximum allowed interest rate is actually one target that moves in time. It moves so that it is fully controlled by banks because as they change interest rates, so the maximum allowed interest rate is changed. So, I think that this way that the maximum interest rate is determined is not limited in any way to the level of interest rate on housing loans and does not in any way limit some so-called so-called ‘insular interest rate’. The self-will of banks. Because the limit is in the hands of those who both the way and the movement of the maximum interest rates are in the hands of those whose behaviour as it wishes to be limited. On the other hand, however, it should also be said that the largest number, that part of European countries have limited interest on housing savings, on housing loans, the largest number does not. Of course, the introduction of maximumisation and limits to interest rates raises difficult issues and causes serious problems about what the state wants to do on the financial market. However, where such restrictions exist, these restrictions are linked to an independent factor that banks cannot influence, and are not defined in any way by the way that banks themselves manage those maximum rates. But maybe this is exactly the opportunity to ask ourselves, so what exactly depends on the interest rates in Croatia because whatever the provisions of the laws and the citizens and businesses, each of us is important and we want to pay as much interest as possible? And that's exactly what the interest rates depend on. Maybe the Ministry of Finance and the government themselves would have something to say. Among other interest rates, of course, depends on the risk of a particular client. The bank sort of assesses the risks of its clients and accordingly charges them with an appropriate interest rate. At least a risky client, a risk-free client, whose client is at risk is zero, which means that the state belongs to the lowest interest rates, and all other companies and citizens are in some relationship to that interest rate and generally pay more interest rates than the state. However, at the beginning of the 8th month, the Croatian state issued vault records with a maturity of one and a half days, so it was due a year-and-a-half-day maturity at an interest rate of 5%. 5% in a year and a half. This doesn't exactly look like a risk-free interest for a client because for comparison and the Italian state, which is in no small financial and economic problems today, pays the interest rate here yesterday from 4.4% to 10 years, the Croatian state 5% at 18 months, Spain 4.39 at 10 years, Croatia 5% at 18 months. I won't even mention Germany. Therefore, in some ways we could conclude that the level and the amount of interest we pay in Croatia depends, of course, on the state of public finances, which then determines which and what interest rates the Croatian state pays. Therefore, instead of provisions that require and require and propose any administrative measures, administrative provisions, entry into contracts, entry into contracts concluded in the past may be a much greater benefit for the Government and the Ministry of Finance for Croatian citizens in ways and measures that will create better economic conditions, which will create and start a Croatian economy and will ultimately ensure that the Croatian state pays lower interest rates. And when the Croatian state pays lower interest rates then they will be lower for both banks and businesses, and for Croatian citizens. In this law, there is a third important segment of the relationship that the law wants to regulate is the question of what happens if the Croatian kuna is weak or if foreign currency exchange rate is strengthened. So it is said that if a foreign exchange rate is strengthened by 20%, the interest rate must be returned to the initial level. This provision has been recognised as an attempt to facilitate the position of debtors in Swiss francs. It is a noble idea in its intention, but the nobility of the idea has nothing to do with financial aspects and financial relations. It cannot be denied that the burden of paying off loans in francs is difficult for a significant number of people who took loans in francs. But what about those who have loans in euro because there are still a number of Croatian citizens who have loans in euro the same housing and loans in kuna? Didn't they lose their jobs, too? Didn't they get increased VAT? Well, they'd be glad to see their war cut a little bit. The government, the legislator, is obliged to treat all citizens in the same way. It's not easy to listen to stories on an individual and on a human level and some experience with loans in Swiss francs, it's not. But for such situations and for such cases there are state expenditures and there are some other measures of state policy which the state cares for and cares for those facing difficulties in its existence. However, laws and legislative solutions must be equal for all. And here in these legislative solutions, clearly and without any doubt at this time, legal solutions are being created that will please a group of people, regardless of the economic strength of the people who took credit in Swiss francs. Some of them may not need the help of the state. And there are also those who have loans, who return them neatly, who regularly serve them there, and unfortunately they may have loans in the kuna, in our currency, they are in debt in the Croatian currency, they may have loans with currency clauses in the euro, and we do not have and offer a solution for them. We therefore hold that these provisions of the law, which I have explained here, cast deep doubt on the effectiveness and purpose of this law. We should, of course, say that we keep that there are several provisions that are effective, in any case reducing interest rates to minuses per current account. However, this reduction could have been done long ago and without the adoption of a special law, with the decisions of the National Bank itself. We think that it's also a good solution that if the banks cancel or reduce the minus on the current account then that payment has to be made in 12 wars, so it's not one-time. However, these positive traits of the law remain in the minority, and these questions that I have explained prevent us from...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48003	You've got nine replicas, and you'll keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48004	That we believe in the effectiveness and efficiency of this law and think that in time if adopted in this form it will bring more harm than good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48005	Now we'll move on to the replicas. Ivo Jelusic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48006	Dear colleague Dalic, you've said a lot of things, it would take about as long as you've told me to replicate everything, but of course I can't. First of all, you're saying that by this law this government favors... Yes, it is, if we can speak with that dictionary, it pleases citizens who are in this whole conflict or dispute or problem with banks, but the weaker side... and we are doing it to help the citizens. If this is our sin we accept it, unlike you who... Please don't interrupt me, unlike you who obviously disagree with it, who obviously disagree with it... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] What can I do? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Which you obviously disagree with because if you wanted to do something, you would have done it while you were in power. You didn't want to, you obviously wanted to take advantage of those other people, and they're bankers. I can personally understand that, you come from that sector, and I can also help your party because it has shown on a number of examples that it has always been on the protection of capital, and often on the side of protecting that work and citizens. But what I'd like to say first and say, you said we were doing this for local elections and that this is a citizens' retrieval. Well, if we'd been working for local elections, then we'd have passed a law by emergency procedure at the time of the local elections to really show that we're going to do it, that's the first argument. The second argument, that we are not working because of local elections, shows the debate today, this month and the next, when we will discuss it, when the election is gone and there will be no elections for the next year. But I understand you because everything you've done, you've worked to buy citizens, to paint their eyes, to promise before the elections, to sign collective agreements for which there is no basis and no real source in the budgets. It's your style of conduct, and you think everyone rules like that. That's how we try not to rule, and I hope the citizens don't mind us very much. You promised constantly the Peljek Bridge, you stopped it, you didn't keep building it, and you accuse us of not doing it, but always before the elections you open stone foundations. We're breaking our legs off from your...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48007	Thank you very much. Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48008	... So first of all, being a banker is an honor to me and you can't disabling me that way because that fact just means that I understand and I know what I'm talking about and I understand and I know how this system works, which can and can't be done. [[Conversation subsequently turned on.]] Then, if these things could be done by law, HDZ would have made them, so that the law could force and regulate and determine interest the way you think, to establish some maximum limits that serve there just as much as some sort of illusion, that it could infiltrate contracts that were concluded years ago would have done HDZ and I would have done it when I was a minister, but couldn't be a colleague. And all of what you're doing, all of the provisions you're making, which will open some contracts concluded three, four, five years ago, will be remanded in court and will fall again in court. There are already a sufficient number of examples that the Constitutional Court has suspended or torn down the provisions adopted in this House on the proposal of this Government. Therefore, some market legality and some market relations cannot be changed in a rough administrative way, and in this part of this law it is precisely trying to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48009	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48010	Dear fellow Dalic, you said in your debate that this law we are talking about today was used for pre-election purposes, regarding local elections and your argument for such a finding is that it has been too long for you from the moment of his announcement until the moment we discuss him in this parliamentary procedure. So you're wrong. This time from the announcement of the law to this day, when we are discussing this law, it has been used for intensive talks. So it is certain that you agree with me that this law is extremely important, but also that it is extremely sensitive. The fact is, your government hasn't done anything, so she hasn't taken any action to help any citizens who have credit arrangements in Swiss, or those who have fat minuses on current accounts. Why didn't your government do it? Because she didn't dare, and this government has the nerve to point out some incorrect behaviour of the banking industry from incomplete information to citizens about the risks of a Swiss credit arrangement to changing the interest margin that unfortunately has always gone uphill even though the libor and euribor have changed and is now at the lowest level since the moment of existence. Croatia has indeed been for bankers for years, Eldorado. And so again, this government has spoken, talked to the banks, talked to citizens and civil society associations to reach a compromise, a quality solution that we are talking about today. That's the government's job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48011	The answer to Martin Dalic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48012	Well, my colleagues, of course, are very clearly different from the idea of what the government's job is. The government's task and social policy in one country is to take care of persons who are at risk and whose existence is threatened and who need to and must be spent on taxpayers' resources. It's one of the fundamental tasks of the state. However, it is not the country's task to take care of all possible debtors. I'm sorry, it's not the task of the state, and even in the case of the Swiss franc, it's not the job of the state to take care of people who are objectively rich and to make sure their credits are reduced. And believe me, there are those among these debtors. Therefore, it is the country's task to help those who are faced with the insufferability of their economic and life circumstances in various ways, not only with social policy instruments but also with the economic policy that this economy is about to launch and bring out of the crisis. However, I can also tell you that six months ago, so one month before this law was passed I told the prime minister where the savings were to be saved. But I said more than once that with the savings, the sharp cuts are over. We have to invest and we have to make people relax. So why not implement the policy that the prime minister announced six months ago in his interview with a national television daily.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48013	Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48014	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleague. You referred in a certain way when you were talking about calculating the average interest rate for housing loans plus one third of that average that banks will slowly raise those loans from month to month using that average plus a third of how, you referred or I understood from your exposure that it would essentially be interest growth and that this law does not limit it. Among other things, I want to tell you, and I think that this is clear and you know that by entering the EU by amending other laws and by harmonising with the acquis, Croatian citizens can address any bank in European countries, EU member states and take home credit there. Of course, I'm not saying it's just going away, but it's not that complicated where we've heard from Mr. Minister that the interest rates are lower. And there's something else. I hope to say now in response to the replicas that you and the banker are professionally essentially, regardless of professional duty right now. Do you perhaps have certain information that banks agree on what is absolutely inadmissible on the market to negotiate on interest on housing loans? Because on the other hand, as far as I know, banks still compete with each other on the market and on housing loans, trying to especially place those citizens who are more capable and better able to repay those loans.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48015	The answer to the replica of her colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48016	My colleague Gjurkovic, you should have come up with a better replica by the time you got back. So first of all, I don't have any information about whether banks are agreeing or not and what legal framework the bank is operating in. Secondly, I did not suggest that interest in Croatia would grow, but I interpreted mathematical mechanics the way in which the maximum allowed interest rate was defined. And of course the case of growth is very interesting from the crash case. You know, when interest rates fall, everyone's happy and happy, nobody's particularly upset about anything. Therefore, find a better replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48017	Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48018	You literally said this law was overlooked, I quote. Now I don't know if it's an oversight if the bank runs out of 350 million kuna revenue. It's the direct consequence of this law. But the point is that I read in some way this law that the banks of daughters and in Croatia try to comply with the business of fairy banks in one Austria, Germany, France, I don't know of Hungary to which we sold the Croatian banks. Now why have we sold the Croatian banks that's another thing, but don't say that this law doesn't correct the injustice of the savings mostly those who have been saving or receiving loans, excuse me in Swiss, with these Swiss people buying apartments or paying off their debts, the obligations of their small companies. I'm also against wood and stones hitting banks. I don't think this is the time for such a policy, but the fact is that banks should be restrained regardless of what someone will say that for the first six months the bank's profit has dropped 40% compared to 2012 for the first six months from 2.1 billion to 200 billion, while on the other hand, let's just say that for the first six months the profits of a company in Croatia were about 100 million kunas greater than the profits of 33 Croatian banks. I agree that it saves, i.e. the debtors of the euro and kuna loans must be harmonised. But this law is in some way also the implementation of the famous judgment in Swiss that applies not only to citizens but also to small entrepreneurs that it has bypassed because they are more likely to be professionals in business. Now, whether the law gets confirmation of the Constitutional Court will we see but one verdict is on the trail of this law or this law is on the trail of that famous verdict.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48019	Thank you very much. Comrade Dalic, please raise your hand or your hand. Replication response, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48020	Thank you very much. As you said and as the minister explained the law will have certain consequences for the bank's income. I mean, which makes sense. Nor can the law of this nature be without financial consequences. However, I must also draw your attention to the fact that the profit of banks and ministers is a tax base. So there's also some of these things that are related to each other. Well, you know, I've talked about that and the subject you've opened, and that's the question of bringing banks into order with banks from the states where their mothers do business. So that's exactly what it's all about, is that the state and the task is that within its political territory, which is then reflected in the assessment of the risks that we call rating provide the operating conditions that exist in the countries from which mothers come. When that happens, when the state finances are brought into better territory then the business conditions of the Croatian banks and interest on which they are owed abroad will be more similar to those of the euro area interest. Then the interest paid by Croatian citizens will be more similar to those in the eurozone. That's what this is about. There is no way to ensure the existence of conditions such as those in the euro area only in one segment and that in all other socio-economic segments there is a mess which then we prove to us, let's say, with a circus like this currently happening in the case of lex Perkovic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48021	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48022	Dear fellow Dalic, you should actually be on two sides of the barricade with a respected minister. However, you are also competing here with the minister and the HDZ club not only you as a personal person who has damaged more citizens. You said before that you knew how the banking system works, you know, I totally agree with you, how the neoliberal capitalism that banks are feathered. But at the same time, you can't be a double and defend the social state. And all the time HDZ's been trying both. Unfortunately for Croatian citizens, your best partner in neoliberalism is Mr Milanovic. Yesterday, he maintained that I don't know if today's press release is a fantastic tirad of banks that the Social Democrats can't even think about, let alone say here in the Parliament. Now what I agree with you, and that's what you said is that it's not just citizens who took loans in Swiss. Right, it's also a problem for citizens who took loans in euro, citizens who took loans in kuna because they lost their jobs. And business is a fundamental human right that the Social Democratic government doesn't care about because keeping an eye on that would make sure that as many people as possible get a job, not to give them 30, 40, or 50 years to pay off the loan. Before, the minister said we had too many apartments. Let's say people sell these apartments. You know how many apartments, how much they have to pay back to the banks when they're selling the apartment, 10 years of loan payments, and half of the apartment is due. Who let that happen? Neoliberal governments of the Republic of Croatia have robbed citizens along with banks. Or let the robbery, forgive me, allow the robbery. And what is it now, and now you're telling us I know how banks work. You know how banks that systematically rob Croatian citizens function.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48023	Thank you very much. Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48024	So you, Mr. Vuksic, are using the Assembly speaker to actually speak some fantasies and to create a picture that there is a beautiful country and a beautiful economic space where there is no economic liberalism, conservativeism. There's no Utopia. It's been proven a long time. So, I'm not here to set up and be at any barricades with anyone. It's not my job to wage war here, but it's my job here to tell the truth in accordance with my best knowledge and conviction. Therefore, I cannot, unlike you, interpret and explain to Croatian citizens that there is some truth that is not just because I think they will like it. The policy based on the argument that citizens would like to hear today, so what I could say to them from this pay phone is a very short-sighted and hyper-populistic policy that has been run on these premises from time to time, is being run today from time to time, and has largely resulted in this economic situation that we have today. Therefore, citizens also deserve to be explained simply some things, ways, mechanisms, how they operate in the market economy. And that's it. And if you still want to interpret that some sudden magical solutions are possible, someone else who will take all the risk and free our citizens of any risk of life just keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48025	Thank you. Igor Radjenović's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48026	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, I like this last self-criticity, Mrs. Dalic, but I'm good to refer to your debate after all. I liked the tone of your debate, I must admit the special beginning when you congratulated Minister Linic, but after that, it immediately went downhill. So from the word that we've lost interest, this law is just an illusion, etc. I mean, we concluded, and you said in the debate, it was a very sensitive law. I do not really see any logic in that the government is proposing this law, after consultations, after a public debate, after summer and consultation with all and banks and consumers etc. in a broad public debate in the rest and through the media to propose a responsible one law that may have weights. So I don't see what the illusion is and why this noble idea of what you called it wouldn't be what it is. What disappointed me in your discussion by appreciating your profession and your former position in both the state and private sector as bank manager I expected something more, I expected more concrete solutions and suggestions on that trail. Namely, you criticized the solution I don't know the maximum interest rate is not good to prescribe, but you didn't give a solution and how different it would be. Well, at home savings, that one-third higher, so I've never heard of those solutions again. You have criticised the solution for Swiss people, I think it is clear to everyone in this Chamber and in the public that the solution we find for Swiss people and necessary... will not be to the satisfaction of bankers or savings in the end line, but this government has offered a proposal that is trying to level it, therefore, which is trying in that because of the external circumstances, an unfair match that has arisen trying to balance these relations. These relations we've heard will be at the expense of 350 million at the expense of banks, and to the benefit of weaker salt it's an assessment so we'll see how it ends in the end. At the end of the line, this is the first reading and I expect from you and the other members of your club who have some knowledge to help us come to a better solution together and this law will be agreed with me. It may not solve everything but in the good part it can solve and I expect you to make a constructive contribution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48027	The answer to Martin Dalic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48028	A colleague of Radjenovic, several before you, has already expressed disagreement with this assessment that the law was only an integral part of the election campaign for local elections. I haven't commented yet, but here I am. So look, if the public debate is over on 31st of May, I checked the Ministry of Finance's website there's a report from a public debate about a relatively short report. Therefore, there were no particular number of objections from the public hearing. The law has 13 articles along with transitional and final provisions, therefore we believe, and given the competence of the Ministry of Finance that what the proposer is saying is true, that the power of this law according to the position of the citizens is as great as the minister interprets, that the government really believes in the effectiveness of these solutions then it seems to me that the law absolutely had to be passed before summer. It's been enough time for a month and a half. However, he was just sent to the parliamentary procedure when the summer break began. I cannot take it any other way than to lose interest and understand, in fact, the government's own representatives that these solutions offered here through the Consumer Protection Act are not the ones that can significantly affect the material position of the citizens on which they depend then and their financial position. My colleague, I have no solution under this law, but what I keep saying is that people correct and form an economic policy that will bring this country out of crisis. That's a suggestion and a solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48029	Thank you. Here you go, Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48030	Vice-President of the Parliament, Minister. Comrade Dalic, I really must react to this statement of yours that this law has been passed and that it is taken by snail step that it has been used for pre-election purposes. So look, I'll tell you when you're talking about the truth, you've mentioned the truth, it's true that for pre-election purposes, there were no stone foundations on non-existent highway plots, and they were set up by the real people of your party, members of the HDZ. This law is a law that is being prepared systematically, is being prepared systematically and the purpose of this law is the protection of Croatian citizens. I would really ask you and your colleagues from your club to engage in affirmative proposals since this is the first reading of how to improve the law because it is the goal of all Croatian citizens and us here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48031	The answer to Martin Dalic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48032	In this House, it has already become a very common habit of representatives of the ruling club to continuously point to HDZ representatives what they should do, what they should talk about and how they should behave. We can still decide for ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48033	Ivan Shuker replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48034	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. At one point, you said that the most important level of interest rate is the interest rate at which the state is in debt and that is the taste of all problems and the minister can raise a ton like this, so I could talk about the deficit in 2003 when it was 15 billion to the budget up to 80 billion etc. But I don't want to talk about it, but when investors see that the state budget report says that the government budget deficit by 6 months at half-year level is 11.4 billion, and at the annual level 10.2 billion are planned then make sure that the interest rate is higher. Why? Because government moves don't make it any better by the end of the year. If the Government will have a higher interest rate, and the reference size for the calculation of interest rates for citizens is some average interest rate then it will eventually pay again the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. So as for the loan, something happened that Croatia could not influence, which was Swiss. Unfortunately, many Croatian citizens have suffered here, but the key problem is the Croatian state, the key problem is that there are no structural reforms, the key problem is that tax laws have led some to the deficits they have led to. The key problem is simply because of certain people in this country, the whole country is being extradited and pushed into the area of political and legal uncertainty, and we will ultimately pay at a higher interest rate, no matter how much someone said they didn't want to get involved in political debates because simply the interest they receive is due to a series, a series of things, an assessment and an assessment of the one who invests money. How risky it is to place that money... The logical thing would be that when Croatia enters the European Union, it gets one greater factor of security and that it should have led to a trap of interest rates, a rise in credit rating, and it happened to us exactly the other way around. Our credit rating's down and our interest rates are up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48035	Thank you. Replication response, Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48036	Well, yes, dear fellow Shuker, again as in your opening line, you have in fact raised the question of legal certainty, which is one of the topics to which the current government is dealing with an ambitious position. That it is thus testified and certain legal regulations whose application has already been suspended or repealed by the Constitutional Court, both in the field of taxation and in the area of dividend taxation. The elements of legal uncertainty also have this law because it explicitly predicts that existing law enforcement contracts will change, and the state is always a force. The state can do what it wants at any moment, only the question of how long it can do it, as the example of this Lex Perkovic and the international public's credibility of the Republic of Croatia shows. And all in the end these investors we expect to invest in Croatia are watching. So if Croatia violates its obligations in international contracts, accepted in the process of accession to the European Union that it has so much cared about, for the successful completion that it has made by many of the most difficult decisions and not always so well accepted in public, if Croatia gives up such legal provisions, and then it can guarantee to any investor that its capital in this country will be certain that the Government will not pass any laws that will cancel some of the former contracts fully in accordance with the law, etc., etc. Such is the link between legal uncertainty, current political movements and investment and economic recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48037	Thank you very much. Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48038	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Dalic, you have rightly pointed out the problem of the rate of interest that the state is in debt with, but I will point out once again because I find it extremely important for this topic today. In fact, you mentioned Italy and Spain, countries that are in major financial problems, especially Spain, which are in debt at an interest rate of 4.4 or 4.5% and at a rate of 10 years, unlike Croatia, which is in debt for 18 months at an interest rate of 5%. I think it would be good for the Croatian public if you pointed out the interest rates of those Member States that have no expressed economic problems, which were also at the edge of the recession, which had problems, but which, of course, were above positive zeros such as Germany. This would give a clear picture of actually the state in which Croatia today is. Namely, the credit rating we came up with, which they call colloquial garbage, is the result of economic policy, the economic policy of this government, with a sign that it will be even worse. The finance minister himself, as far as I could read, said a short time ago that this credit rating was likely to continue to fall. What does that mean? This means absolutely worse conditions for businessmen, for entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia, this means imposing entirely other rules. This means that Europe will dictate budget supervision for us. What does the deficit mean? Mr. Shuker said the deficit was 11.4 billion kuna at the end of the 6th month. At the 8th month it was already over 13 billion kuna, today it's probably already 14.5 billion kuna. According to the Croatian National Bank, it will rise to 16 billion kunas without the rehabilitation of health care, which is likely to be 2.5 billion kuna. Legal uncertainty that goes with it clearly does not create the right environment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48039	Thank you very much. Finance Minister Slavko Linic called for the word. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48040	Thank you, Madam Vice President. First of all, I'd like to thank the HDZ Club for the congratulations, and now I'd like to try to briefly respond to the club's evidence regarding the law. Five months of debate, I have to tell most of the guilt falls on me personally for the reason I tried to find as high-quality a solution as possible, long-term. The government was half the 7th when the parliament stopped adopting this bill. Did it take that long? Let's go to the highest interest rate proposal, the proposal I suggested on behalf of the government can be considered by the bank. You know, the dilemma we were struggling with was whether to take the reference rate of Europe, we're a member of Europe. Europe's reference interest rate is 1%. So the answer is just some mutate. Our proposal of 1.1 will be the euro reference rate. Of course it won't be plus one-third, then we'll have to make something else possible, a little bigger because in Europe it's plus 5, plus 6. So, there are always solutions. But what the Government is making very clear with this law is that we, as Government, are taking responsibility to enter into relations between citizens and banks. And banks can either behave correctly or we'll change laws if we need five times a year. Therefore, one reason is that we were struggling with what proposal to propose. If you have a better proposal, we'd be happy to accept it, but we didn't want it this year, in the year where we were half in Europe, half out to get the reference interest rate... Now be assured behind 1.1. We will. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You know, it's not easy to claim maximum. We're now down from 11, 12% to 7%. So we did something, at least for the housing talk, for the housing. 'Cause you'll always get big enough to stop the housing. Because you know what I thought at first, two percent and that's it. Yeah, but then again it's government policy 2% of the bank won't finance housing. Therefore, you must respect and I would say market interests. It's something that's going to be the thing of the final solution in the second reading. You have an objection to Swiss people in terms of the euro. We didn't mention Swiss. We said currency clause with a negative 20% score as a burden on citizens. It can go something different. Let's also establish a lower percentage if we estimate that we're going to cancel the currency clause with this one. We can really cancel the currency clause, figure out by 5%, change the course, go for protection through different defined interest. Therefore, we expect suggestions. And at this point, we've estimated that we just want to take care of those where the course has grown significantly, and that's what we have significantly defined 20%. So this is something we can change, and we'll talk about it. You see the most spent is just trying to see if there's anything we can do to change existing contracts. My pleasure, which I can highlight if I said that we have failed to agree with the banks, we have an amendment that has already arrived from the Croatian Banking Association which accepts that we are changing the interest rate just for the sake of a huge problem for every citizen, every credit user, to propose an average. So they accept that for those who have increased 20% of the exchange rate, we go to the average of completed contracts that many will respond to because they have concluded at higher rates than that average. So, as you can see, some of the results we've achieved. Bankers are aware, however, that it would be wise for existing contracts that correspond to them to correct for the benefit of citizens who are. It's a proposal from the Banking Association. Which means long-term pressures, conversations, pressures paid off. You know where we were helped by this legal interpretation of the Mandatory Relations Act that says bad work can't go one way or the other. He can't fall, and apparently that part of him had some results. It's all invested. I say, it is the easiest way to propose a solution so we will be in the Constitutional Court and then we leave politics or I would say the solutions to life in Croatia are left to the judges of the Constitutional Court. Because if the Banking Association says so, I guess the banks won't file a constitutional suit for us. They'll accept that we're correcting the concluded contracts in that clause as well. Therefore, I suppose we can say that in some way we have achieved something with this long-term negotiation, we have achieved that maybe the banks accept that they will change that part of the contract and that in some way the solutions we offer can be said to be acceptable rather than the case of lawsuits. Therefore, I would say the mass of these solutions shows that the executive government wants, wants to establish a more correct relationship between citizens of credit users and the banking system and that we may be able to define. But what he really promises we'll always change every deviant behavior we need, everyone. I also very clearly want to say this government does not promise that we will be able to repay the loans to citizens. No, we can't promise that. Because to promise that, we have to reach out to other citizens in our pocket. Such a policy that we take one to give to those who are in trouble for the payment of loans we don't have in this government for now. And since you mentioned the relationship between the state and the banks, then I have to tell you that it's not great, but not because the banks are in foreign hands. And I was a little surprised that you mentioned eight months and one of our relationships with business banks. If that eight month and that amount we refinanced with domestic banks, we had everything agreed, and then the interest jumped 5% know it's not a market relationship. It's not. It was the blackmail of a banker, a Croatian who led a bank that did not go to economic relations but to the ultimatums he set up for the Croatian government because of the Swiss verdict. And know that behind him is neither his queen nor his bill. And that's why we're changing politics. Traditionally large banks that followed Croatia will not behave like this. Yes, these are the deviant behaviours of Croatian citizens. He's a Croat. It's not a bank policy. He's blackmailing the state, threatening Swiss, threatening, but interestingly, you mention him. 5% is part of his policy, not banks, political activities. Yes, unfortunately, and that's what we meet in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48041	Thank you. We've registered three replicas. Martina Dalic called first. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48042	So you know fellow Linic this about 5% on 700m euros is official data. Who, how or whether he was blackmailing the Republic of Croatia, I don't know. I just see, Unfortunately, it's no use because I don't need to calculate here what 5% of 700 million euros per year are. [[Intruder Linic: Now you know.]] So, is it and who blackmailed the Republic of Croatia I don't know. The problem is, unfortunately, that the Ministry of Finance couldn't refuse that blackmail, that's the problem. And he couldn't cancel that debt at that price. That's what I find the biggest problem. I agree with you no one, no individual, no bank, no institution should and should not be able to blackmail the Republic of Croatia, but the topic which we cannot avoid in one way or another, which is the situation in this year's budget, unfortunately, shows that such things are becoming subject to the Ministry of Finance. And then everything else that happens in the economy is just a derivative. And until then, we can discuss laws like this and interpret people that it's going to change their lives terribly, but I'm simply expressing a skepticism. ... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48043	Minister, please don't! Here if you'd like to have a response to the replica. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48044	Credits in Swiss francs I think we've repeatedly said that we all understand that for a part of the citizens it's a very difficult problem. What we are telling you is that it is possible for a part of the citizens that the problem has reached such an extent that it cannot be solved by the administrative measures that you are proposing here. So let's not kid ourselves, if the course was accompanied by 50% and then the interest reduction by 1% as their war won't decrease significantly. So let's not fool ourselves! Therefore, some other instruments, including state social policy, are needed. And the prime minister said that savings and cuttings are gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48045	Thank you, colleague Dalic. We have a response to the replica. Minister Linic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48046	Excuse me for throwing away. I forgot I had the right to a replica. Again, you're trying to say that the management of the new government's economic policy is wrong for the state of the economy, for the state of the citizens who have become credit far worse than before. You can say it as much as you want, you can link it to what I want to tell you for eight years, from 2003 to 2012, was a year of waste, spending irresponsible and uncontrolled financial management where you created 200 billion debts, where you left unstructured companies, where you left your debts. And that's something to get rid of. And we know we have to deal with it, and we're not burdening ourselves with it. We're talking about whether or not we're going to do something about the issue of citizens' and banks' relations. This is the government's proposal, you're free to bring it into contact with economic policy, but you'll always get the answer, it's the result of your 8 years of fully criminal carrying a responsible function of government. But I also want to say that you know very well what is being negotiated and happening in Croatian banking, you know well what the policies are, and then just one thing I'm telling you is that it's not a problem that we change bankers, we change banks. And it is obvious that part of the large banks that were the main backbone of co-operation with the Croatian government will no longer be. And let me just remind you about the cashier's records and there's still no change. That's where we choose which bank, and here we just wanted to finish the job with the ones you started with.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48047	Thank you, Minister. Next line, Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48048	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, you just said that this government will not encourage the sale of apartments in the Republic of Croatia and you also said for the reason that there are about 30,000 residential units in Croatia more than necessary. On the other hand, there's a large number of unsold apartments. On the third hand, you are not particularly talking about maintaining the amount of subsidisation subsidies for Croatian citizens because these same housing savings do not build apartments, although I do not know why they would build it, and on the other hand, taxpayers help those who have money to save and are thus given additional funds from the state budget. But it's not clear to me that at that point, you've silenced the fact that your government, at the position of the state budget, has left an amount of 238 million kuna to encourage the sale of apartments. And you have this in the position of the state budget to make it possible, according to government announcements, to sell over 20,000 apartments for one model, so-called. POS Plus. And that model you know well, it started with a publication in May, and it was said that 20,000 apartments will be sold from that model. With today's day, Mr. Minister, this project has had a complete debacle, a failure. I think you know that out of those 20,000 announced apartments that the government is going to help sell 5, so 5 apartments have been sold out of 38 requests for how many citizens of the Republic of Croatia have shown how much they believe in this project of yours. So on the one hand, you're saying you're not going to provide funds to subsidize the sale of apartments, and that's not true because you've secured a huge amount so far unremembered to subsidise 238 million kuna, and that project has experienced a total debacle. So much for how and how the government is considering encouraging housing and then building industries in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48049	Thank you. We have an answer, Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48050	And I think you've denied yourself. Yes, in this year's budget we have an item to support the sale of ready-to-use apartments and we have the support of housing savings that we have inside. But the answer is, citizens can't and don't want to buy apartments anymore, they don't want to. So, we didn't decide overnight, we didn't. It's been a big analysis of what's going on and it's not our right that construction firms have nothing to do, but you're slowly coming up with statistics that everyone can read. More apartments than families, unsold apartments, citizens are uninterested not because they do not trust the government but neither have the funds nor need to buy 2.3 apartments. And on the other side of the savings bank that they don't build anymore. But the structure of savings in those savings shows that these are more wealthy citizens who are skillfully taking advantage of the opportunity to make money on interest supplements. And the answer is, we won't encourage it anymore. But you heard the new government program, Minister Mrak-Taritash said very clearly, so it became clear we no longer need to encourage the purchase of apartments, rent apartments. We want together with this banking system and the apartments that are unsold that burden the construction sector to take and the truth we agree with the banking system not to pay apartments to pay interest on invested and to pay part of VAT and to make it a new policy, to let citizens enter into the lease and not to become slaves. As you can see, the government has changed 360% of its policy in a year, and now we're trying to negotiate it, these are our answers, not our purchase, because they're slaves, they're our rent. So just listen to what the government says, and you'll see that we have a program.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48051	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48052	Dear Minister Linic, you said the banks tried or the banks were blackmailing, the bankers were blackmailing, and that's world practice, banks are blackmailing everywhere, you know that banks... we have corporate democracy in action. Two days ago, an excellent documentary by Arsen Oremovic was broadcast on HTV called "Marriage with Swiss" which speaks of human fates for those who took out loans in Swiss. We here in the Parliament talk about these people as numbers as mere statistics. It's a tragedy, people die from it, people kill themselves for it, and we here declare some rules by which banks have every right to do whatever they want, as Mrs. Dalic said I drown it. I mean, I'm fighting to bring down what she stands for. I'm sure we should stand up to the banks. We need to talk here in Parliament, it's not the subject of today's debate, and it's about another law, and it's the Law on Mandatory Relations, and we need to finally start talking so that someone doesn't say they can't end the exchange clause overnight. And two years ago, even a recommendation to the government, the HDZ government was still in power of Governor Zeljko Rohatinski, who was very much in favour of the foreign exchange clause not being abolished. That's when he said I recommend that the state begin to prepare to abolish the foreign exchange clause. However, we haven't even started to talk about it, we haven't even started to analyze what it would mean, we haven't started to seriously talk about how to help these citizens not to kill themselves, and they're still left to looting banks that tear their skin out.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48053	Thank you. We have an answer. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48054	I agree that the exchange clause is a problem in Croatia. And what I can say and repeat, the foreign exchange clause shouldn't be touched because citizens have their savings and we don't want that savings to disappear and he has the right to exchange rates and exchange rates on his money, on his property. What we can, in this law, ban debt in foreign exchanges, we can ban and we solve the problem. There can't be a currency clause on the kuna, there can't be a currency clause. So that's something we didn't dare. Why didn't we dare? Well, you see, we've raised 2% of the VAT, so we've been accused of impoverishing consumption, so we've told people, so it's not right that you're borrowing over one minus, so you're going to destroy the economy again. To ban debt in exchange means that there may be a smaller amount of credit. And does that mean endangering consumption and all that? So these are the moves that have solutions. We can open this debate, we don't have to pass this law, and let's reopen, in two months we can go again with the proposal No duties in foreign exchanges in Croatia, no. And then we solved that problem, and we're not going to let the banks do it, and we're not going to let the citizens do it. Therefore, solutions exist but are not so simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48055	Thank you. We're continuing to discuss clubs. On behalf of the HSU Club, Zeljko Schamper. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48056	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, since you and I are retired, I also join in their name congratulations, first with a desire for your good health, and second, to raise funds for December pensions. My colleagues and colleagues, as these amendments and additions to the Consumer Credit Act appear, will regulate the business relationship between creditors and creditors in a fairer, more moral and fairer way. In particular, this refers to the protection of a weaker partner, a consumer who will receive additional protection and, when taking credit, to be better informed with possible risks that accompany any borrowing of citizens. In this relationship, it has been shown that consumers have always drawn a thicker end, although partly their responsibility in excessive borrowing is to be limited to their incomes. Big problems in the wild of the Swiss exchange rate have spilled a glass, causing nightmares for all those citizens who took loans in that currency. According to the latest CNB data, citizens have stopped returning 4 billion kunas of housing loans, and each ninth loan is in Swiss francs. Credits were taken quite lightly because at that time it seemed acceptable and very favourable, and they did not take too much into account that any taking credit is risky. They did not think that the exchange rate of some of the currencies could fly to the sky or that there could be problems with their incomes. I remember in the 1970s, although there was no consumer society in Croatia at the time, employees also took loans to build houses or less to buy cars. But at that time in years of repaying credit, the situation turned to reverse advantage. High inflation led to loans, so monthly wars had the value of a pack of cigarettes, unlike today's increased loan wars. At that time, they were so lucky. Some of the citizens did not like to raise loans but were saving and then bought what they needed and did not have problems because of the inability to repay the loan. By the time the crisis came, the bank was intrusively offering consumer loans and citizens, especially young families, were taking them without much thought. In the short time after they got the job they wanted to have, and it was also a need, and an apartment and a car, go to sea or ski and all that could be on loan. Those with lower incomes, those who worked and did not receive regular salaries, those who had lost their jobs without a minus on the account could not pay even more directly as they were seen from 300 thousand blocked accounts and 270 thousand executions with a debt of 20 billion kuna. They have lost even without the full amount of wages or pensions. It's a matter of mere survival. By not returning credit wars, banks that show their muscles and protect their interests also come into trouble, end surpluses on or reduce their current citizens' accounts. And that's why these amendments to the law will be good because they go in favour of weaker contractual parties, which are citizens of consumers. This week, the European Parliament also adopted a new directive that prescribes greater control in the approval of loans, but also strengthens the protection of debtors during the implementation. And according to the applicable law, a set of provisions is regulated by the relationship between the bank and the consumer, especially on consumer rights, but also on insufficient information on credit, both at the time of its duration, and especially when the consumer is in trouble and cannot meet his obligation to repay the loan in time. The banks stood firm on that occasion, with the strength of a stronger one, only protected their own interest. There were a lot of problems with the approval, especially with the suspension of current accounts, etc. a minus where banks unilaterally made decisions to reduce the minus, did not warn citizens or offer them a gradual transition to a reduced amount of overrun. The banks were doing what they had to do, offering loans of all kinds, and it was offered to the citizens if they estimated that the loan would be returned. In the end, it all turns out that the loan is easy to take, and it's hard to repay. These amendments and additions to the applicable laws have the right and the obligation to intervene in this troubled area and thus protect consumers, especially when a large number of citizens are affected by what is seen by the number of blocking accounts and the number of executions. The amendments prohibit the introduction of new fees after the conclusion of the loan agreement, and the finance minister will further define the amount of compensation. This avoids the possibility of the credentials to additionally raise the credit price. The believer is now obliged to warn the consumer by written written of the risks with exchange rates or change in interest rates. In the case where a variable interest rate is agreed, the parameters that can be used to change the agreed interest rate must be precisely defined. It is also very important in this provision to apply to contracts concluded before the entry into force of this law where no parameters for changing the interest rate have been defined. These parameters, fixed margin and interest change periods shall not be greater than the initial in the case of foreign currency growth of more than 20% compared to domestic currency. The application of this law also has a retroactive effect. Its purpose is justified because it is about removing the observed current irregularities and the unfair position of consumers in credit, with a variable interest rate that depended on the will of the stronger parties to the contract, which are always banks. For household credit users, a maximum allowable interest rate shall be determined which shall not exceed the average interest rate on approved housing loans per currency in the Republic of Croatia increased by one-third. It is similar in consumer loans where the average interest rate can be increased by half. Such an average interest rate determines and publishes the Croatian National Bank on its website. In this way, these provisions protect citizens from the excessive growth of interest rates especially from excessive long-term borrowing in addressing housing needs. There is a particular need for State intervention because the average interest rate in euro area countries is 3.35% while in the Republic of Croatia is 5.3%. Lately, there have been a lot of stories about allowed overruns in the current account that have been the only way for citizens to pay the directors and other needs of their family. The Bank is now obliged to inform the consumer of the reduction or elimination of the permitted minus and to allow the consumer without any additional cost of disbursement in 12 monthly meals and interest rates applicable to the permitted overrun per current account. It is the business policy of banks that consciously offered down to a minimum of up to three months’ wages, not taking into account risks for those debtors, but also for their business. The Croatian Retired Party Club will support this proposal to protect Croatian consumers, but we also have one question. Can this law, or perhaps others, prevent the flood of many different flyers who offer pensioners a hundred times the average salary? I also don't understand why these loans are offered by beautiful women. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48057	Thank you very much, colleague Shemper. We've reported several replicas. The first one came from Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48058	Thank you, Mr. President. Here's a respected colleague in his speech, you've made a good point of saying that when people took loans in Swiss that it seemed acceptable and tempting to them, you've also claimed in general that he was guilty of all of these troubles that many citizens have just been hit by the business policy of the banks. As for the first one, I would also like to say, in particular, to say that this is one of the biggest sins of banks, it is the reckless exploitation of people, and it is the failure of banks to refer to their clients in their rights and in their obligations, above all, to risk, and themselves because they are often not in the service of the very promotion of the economy and industry, and they have declared themselves that they are industry, that they are giving and products. No matter what black products! Please, if that is the case, if we are going to call their services and products, then the question is that they are obliged to write on their product a declaration which risks arise from certain products. But most often this when you say it's the bank's business policy we often say is the bank's fault, it's her fault. No, it's the governments so far that let them do it, and the banks are nothing to blame. It's the ones who let them do it. That's why Mr. Secretary Linic should first of all congratulate you on his courage today. This is one of the first steps in how the responsible state and responsible government treats all the participants of life in the Republic of Croatia as well as financial institutions, and I also congratulate you on your birthday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48059	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48060	Well, I can only briefly say that without work, there is no new value, and what we each saw when he took some credit that these are obligations and rights to what three, four, five pages that no debtor who raises credit has ever read specifically those with small letters that are practically the most important in this debt-religious relationship.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48061	Thank you. The next replica of Dragutin Lesar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48062	You said that people didn't take care when they took those loans, practically they were gullible. Now watch when the consumer goes to the store and buys rotten milk, poisons and dies, we say to him, "You were gullible because you didn't read the expiration date." That's about the same, similar comparison. People were not gullible, but the banks, the people, the citizens of this country declared creditable for loans in kunas and euros, but they were the only credit facility capable of being in charge in Swiss francs and had no choice or Swiss or anything. That's a problem you all understand now, I guess, no matter how many years we've talked about this problem. However, with careful reading of this bill, I am still not sure that we have solved two problems. In fact, there is a whole misunderstanding about the foreign exchange clause when we talk about it. I thought there was foreign exchange savings and kuna savings, foreign exchange loans and kuna loans in Croatia. The banks in the loans I'm talking about didn't pay out loans in euro and Swiss but in kunas, they only tied their payments to foreign currency. It's a foreign savings policy, which forbids them to buy foreign exchanges and put them in a bank. But to give kunas and then to calculate exchange rates is manipulation by banks. Other newest types of problems in Croatia, especially Austria's savings cooperatives, employ citizens for loans for residential buildings through credit intermediaries, without being registered in Croatia, and Croatian courts carry out performances under such contracts that are forged as to be concluded abroad and concluded in Croatia. I found no solution to the ban on such a business and the possibility of State intervention in this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48063	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48064	Well, colleague Lesar, I can answer that there are practically two types of debtors with us. Those who wish to have a better standard in a hurry and admire those who, when I read it, have raised a loan of 100,000 euros. And I don't know if he was thinking about whether I could pay it off, what could happen, if I could lose my job, if it could be some kind of family accident, and everything would go on some other accident. On the other hand, some are forced, especially for pensioners where the average pension is 2200 kuna, where the directors are to be paid, where pensioners mostly raise loans because of their health and treatment or to pay for those directors they learned to pay first. Therefore, there are all kinds of cases in life, and I think that each one of them is in debt, the one who raises the credit has either the happiness or the accident that depends on the time he has lived. We used to, and those people who were raising, that's what I said, who were taking loans at the good time of high inflation, too, would have happened if this Swiss had fallen below that rate they got credit for. The same would... [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48065	Thank you, too. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48066	Dear colleague Schamper turns out after your discussion that the state should behave like a lottery. You're lucky, you're out of luck, depending on the period you live in. You said the citizens didn't think when they took the loans. There are some ministers who accused the citizens of being grammistical when they took credit, of calculating. There are two kinds of loudest ads in America. They're fast food commercials and they're fitness commercials. It's going great both ways. First they get fat and then they try to melt what they're getting fat. Remember the Swiss commercials, remember everything on TV was spinning around with the Swiss. And what did people do when they took out loans? They trusted the state to protect them. The state exists for citizens, not for itself. The state is not a coat of arms, anthem, a flag and other features, and the state exists to protect its citizens and take care of them. You were talking about and speaking here in the law on citizens as consumers. Even the ugly ones are consumers, they're just spending. If you make a deal with the bank then you're a business partner of the bank, then you're a partner of the bank. But the state protects one partner, the other does not protect. And that's what we see hundreds of thousands. You said about data, 270 thousand plus 300 grand that's 600,000 families in the Republic of Croatia in debt slavery, in some kind of debt slavery. If we multiply by 4 it's you calculate almost 2.5 million citizens about this, and we talk about it I'll repeat it as before about statistics, as if people are potatoes, as if people are numbers. And you know where people are with numbers, where they put their numbers? Well, let's not act like one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48067	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Schamper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48068	I just want to say that every citizen individually decides where they're going to take the loan, how high they're going to take the loan, and above all think they're going to be able to pay it off. Times have come in such a way that it is hard to pay for both loans and especially to pay for directors. Therefore, banks have the basic activity, they offer both those on various boards or trams offering these flyers rudely, says up to 220 thousand loans to one pensioner. That's especially true of pensioners. I think any one of us can decide for himself, no one has made him decide whether or not he can repay that loan so he doesn't get into the situation he's got today really and too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48069	Thank you, too. And the last replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48070	I wanted to tell you when you were talking about those '70s and '80s credits, and we remember you and I were talking about those credits, and then the interest was counting on the total amount of credit raised without this indication, so the annual interest rate. So if you raise 100,000 kuna, if the interest is 10% or 12%, then you owe 12 grand. So the total capital plus 12 grand. Today it's quite different. Well, then the total debt, and by calculating this calculation that exists today, is so 20 and 30 percent and up to 50%, and there are those loans that are so calculated that they owe twice as much as the principal you've raised. That was the problem when you said the war came a matchbox. Okay, that's inflation she ate. But here's only one contribution to how credit accounting was at the time and how it is today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48071	Thank you. Answer me, comrade Shemper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48072	So I can say that when we compare, there weren't as many banks as there used to be today. When we compare those banks and their business and these domestic and foreign banks, we see that there was one fairer relationship that banks did not use all the other benefits, which margins so that the loan grew far more than what the debtor had raised. And in the past, there have been different others, in housing companies where workers made their own payments, but there was a problem that young workers couldn't get credit because they were always older with more internships had priority. And it was also possible to build houses then, but it couldn't be done in a year or two, but for example, pensioners with such smaller loans or those who saved up built a house for 20 and 30 years until the very retirement. It's a big difference between that time and these banks today that are practically treating the citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48073	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48074	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister of Congratulations. Here's your work birthday eating like that today, and we the older ones learned to work on our birthdays, so it's not that hard for us. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act. I'd sooner call the law on trying to implement this government's social policy through the crumbs we demand from commercial banks. When we talk about 350 million kunas for which we will pinch from commercial banks through these measures is about forecasting, then it is indeed a crumb compared to the profits made by commercial banks in the Croatian capital market in the Republic of Croatia. And the way we sold out in Croatia before I won't talk about governments, I don't care what ideological sign was left or right, so we recapitalised the money of the citizens into the banks and then sold them. What's going on today? Well, it happens that in fact Croatia with 230 thousand people who due to debts have blocked accounts with 330 thousand unemployed, so a total of about 600 thousand times 3 or 4 is half of Croatia, about half of Croatia has fallen into debt slavery. That's a fact. So Croatia is actually if it is debt slavery, and the slave is said on the Latin Colon Croatia is colonized. From who, how? So precisely through commercial banks that have entered the Croatian market and the only HPB that has a share of capital of a few percent, I would not like to comment on how much there is, and here it is on the scale and on the drum to sell. Who? It'll only be seen in the contest. And whenever our public television always has both the current and how it follows the current events then, as the other day was the film "The People's Vegetarian" in front of a doctor's strike to insult doctors and hospitals and the system of health care of the Republic of Croatia, the film is, I guess, in favour of the public or public authority or of this authority, the film "Life with Swiss" is shown. I don't know who was watching him was Mr. Vuksic is a participant of that film and Mr. Lesar here present, Maric also, so I don't know who looked at him but really when a man looks at these dramatic human fates, and the fates of the people who have fallen into great difficulty and who have actually ruined their lives because of the Swiss loan then we have to ask ourselves how it could have happened and how no government has intervened. I listened to the appeal of the Prime Minister Remetinco, the appeal, I appeal to the banks to be merciful. She appealed to this government to the banks and this is the first law, although late it came, which is where she pinched that crumb of bank profits, and for the benefit of the consumer here says. Although I would say these are the people who signed the contracts with the banks, the consumer is a bit of an ugly word, but good. It's not ugly, but it's not appropriate. Let's just say it. Now, in this not conflict, but one conversation between the deaf between the banks and the consumers, he says we offered you a contract, you listed it with a tiny six so you don't have to take the whitest glasses to read. The lawyers, though, say ignorance doesn't justify it. Now a banking product or a loan whether it's residential or not, so it's not intended to be declared a product. What the bank produced, I don't know. Is there a factory there that makes something? There isn't. Is there a shoe factory there? There isn't. It's a favor. It's not a product. It's a service. And then when you have a product like this or some pharmacist says listen to your doctor’s instructions or very soon the same doctor or pharmacist as advertised on our public and other commercial televisions. And the instructions of a doctor or pharmacist are actually instructions from banks written in six or four that you can't see at all. Or they don't tell you when you're raising a loan, how much I'm paying for the credit bill. So then you have the lowest interest rate of one, I won't mention the name of the bank so I don't advertise any bank in a positive or negative context, where the interest is the lowest for non-intentional speaking credit, and then when you come in, you realize then you'll pay 3.5% of the credit bill. Although you don't have 3.5% on 200 grand, it's 7 thousand kuna, then that fee goes into your credit, they say no problem we'll put it in your credit, and then you repay a loan of 103.5 and not from 100 thousand kuna and on that 3.5 credit bill you pay neatly 5, 10, or 20 years interest, and then you'll see what that fee is after 20 years at 3.5 thousand, let's say, if the loan is 100 thousand, huge. It's a scam. It's a real scam. In the neighbouring country, I can only say that in the east, not to mention the name, no need, so in the east, the other day I looked back on our public television, and about that Swiss, the government long ago made a decision not to rob the people or the citizens of that country. There are more people and peoples. How could the Croatian Government not make such a decision? How come the Croatian Government never made a decision to protect the so-called Bank consumers? Wasn't there a good will or was there enough appeal? Paroles, passwords, passwords, there's one song, in Italian words, words. And nothing more. But appeal to the banks, it's like an appeal to a deaf man. They found a modus that in all possible ways, of those services, reminders, all live charges, and that they have no right and that they have the right and no one controls them specifically. HNB, what did she do? It also has a burden on the regulation of banking services and things, but it's not there, it's missing. And that former governor named as the best governor of those he served, and we don't really have anything today, we don't really have anything in this sense where this government is and I can tell you Mr. Linic that the HDSSB club will support this legislative proposal of yours, and even though it's crumbs or at least I hope for the start of one and a stricter regulation in banking in this sector because the state is citizens. The state is obliged to protect its citizens, clearly not in the way you said yourself that it forgives someone or something, but to set up fair and fair relations between banks, commercial banks and its committees, or consumers as they are called here because they are also called consumer loans. And not that the banks are actually completely, almost entirely equal to the interest model and what Mr. Schamper was showing with beautiful women, commercials for interest rates from some unknown cooperatives, or I don't know who. And about these cooperatives that bear the sound name of one of our banks, and it is registered in Austria, and that is why many citizens, especially this SS part of Croatia, so Međimurje, Zagorje, Zagreb, etc., have become actually slaves, debtors. People live in their homes as tenants, and the bank charges them subsistence, rent, and their house was, so it belongs to the bank. And that was either a show or one of the reports on ours or it's on commercial public television, I don't know now. The same bank uses the name of a highly-ranked commercial bank in the Republic of Croatia with fraud, but it is not the same bank, but the same cooperative. It's just that cooperative thing. About housing savings, they turned into savings only, and it's true that many people are saving just with state support which, from now on, it's 10% as far as I know, to sign up on their account, and housing is really no longer building apartments. There is no investment, so they operate exclusively commercially, and they are called housing savings and the state gives them 10% support so that the interest paid by the savings bank, which is relatively low, is supported by the money of all taxpayers of 10%. Is that logical? It's not. Is that too much? It's not. So this is a bill and a bill that I'd say is a little late. Furthermore, here we have some, specifically on the members of the law, which reads in Article 11, that the fixed margin period of change in interest rates is determined by the CNB no later than 1 January 2014. Why not before? And in Article 13, so 90 days from the day of publication in the National Journal after the adoption of the law. Why not right away, Mr. Minister? So the bank can calculate the average interest rate of the CNB within two hours because it has data from all commercial banks. Why wait 1st January 2014? The banking clock doesn't stand, he knocks, he keeps going and grinding, grinding in the current conditions of actually his consumer. Although it should not stop the consumer from falling into difficulties and the bank's profit depends on the state of the consumer. But we are led to the fact that 270 thousand citizens are creditworthy, that due to debts they have blocked accounts, that we have a steady increase in the number of unemployed, except in the tourist season, and here are those 600 thousand unfortunate people who have been brought into such a situation, I would really say that what was once rejected here in this House when I was talking about opportunities for citizens and states to enter into debt slavery with the disgust of the prime minister or ministers, I don't think it really happened now. And I would not like to say it so peacefully, but even when we have warned about what will happen, and nothing is done and because of this here law, which predicts that this debt that is created on current accounts can be paid within 12 months, so somehow it would be reprogrammed to say that this interest still comes down to residential loans plus one third in relation to the average interest in the Republic of Croatia or plus one half in relation to the rate, the average interest rate in the Republic of Croatia for non-permanent loans, however, is somewhat or slightly due to the introduction of order in the sector and some new measures that will be shown when this law is applied to further improve and further improve the guidance that this proposal is legally seeking. I think it is precisely this principle of justice and the sharing of risks between consumers and banks that should be further worked out. I'm not a financial expert, I'm a doctor, but in any case I and some of my friends and relatives have also been hooked up by an increase in Swiss francs and loans in Swiss francs and some others as some banking products or services that are really funny. You can't believe what the bank is charging you, how it shuts down the bill with a bill, the giro-account, how it informs you and charges you, how they still need an over-debt in the amount of two, three or more salaries. Done. [[/Invader Batinić: Col. Grubisic, here's the time. Finish it.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48075	Thank you. There'll be opportunities through the replicas. Six have been reported. Branko Vuksic first picked up, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48076	Dear fellow Grubisic, first of all the film "Mudožder Vegetarian" is planned in summer. Thus Croatian television does not react so spotlessly, so it is not because it is to blacken doctors. And the other is not life with Swiss, but marriage with Swiss even though sometimes marriage can be life Yeah, just sometimes. [[Intruder: Only once.]] You talked about slavery, about slaves, about how Croatia is colonized. In my own replica, I was saying that this, the intention that was made by British and American bankers and dignitaries of 1863, when they first met, were implemented to the day of today and were successfully washed by the brain so that here in the Parliament we are told that there is no other system than that one percent of the people in the world have all the wealth of this world. 99% of the servants, 99% of the slaves, we need to accept it as a fact, as a social state, as the country headed by the Social Democratic Government. Someone's dealing with it, it's not working with it. We certainly won't deal with it. We became instead of a sovereign, social state is exactly a colony. That's obvious. They took everything that could be managed, so I repeat, our prime minister says no, we'll have nothing. What does that have to do with who owns it? Who owns the banks? That's what Mr. Chacic used to say. I'd ask Mr. Cacic to have a few cars to give me one car to drive, it doesn't matter who owns it, so let me own it. I mean, here's where the neoliberalism smokes, and I guess it goes out of the chimney like smoke. And we've made idols of those who take the most profit and that's terrible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48077	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48078	I fully agree with my colleague Vuksic. You yourself have seen here you can go down to the square and enter any bank that these banks look like. It's just by the looks of it or by telling the doorknobs you can see how it stands, where it stands, and if you've built anything, then you know how expensive the material is and everything is so expensive and I wonder how these banks and these financial institutions built such luxury for themselves. Well, right, just like you said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48079	Thank you. Next replica of Draguin Lesar, here's your colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48080	Comrade Grubisic, you mentioned foreign credit cooperatives, did not pronounce a name. I will publicly say that to me, the most common case is to the Reifesen cooperative. And on this occasion I call on all citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia not to fall for the mediators of the Reiffeisen cooperative in Croatia and not to enter with them any business credit arrangements because behind this project lies fraud and fraud. They deliberately bring credit users into the inability to pay and turn credit into lying, take their apartment, house, pay subsistence and repay credit, the difference between the value of real estate and debt. I also call on the Minister of Justice Milenic to intervene urgently in legislative legislation to declare such contracts in Croatia harmful because regulations on the conclusion of credit agreements in Croatia have been concluded. On the other hand, those who believe that loans in debt under the foreign exchange clause would profit from the fact that the exchange rate fell greatly and sharply in error, because in the contracts the banks provided the minimum exchange rate clauses by which the anuity would be calculated and if the exchange rate fell above the contracted minimum bank would account for the rates at that contracted lowest rate rather than the actual market rate. So the banks were also insured, and if the Swiss had fallen from 6 to 3, and in the contract there was 5 debtors would have returned 5 and not 3. And you wouldn't profit. In most contracts, most banks have such clauses in contracts, and do not claim that the fall of the course would make these gullible citizens profit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48081	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48082	My colleague Lesar, you half responded to my colleague, Shemper, and half to me. Therefore, this downturn, for example, hypothetically lower the Swiss franc course would not bring any relief to our credit consumers because it is written in the clause that on a day, so the lowest rate is the one that was concluded on the day of the contract. And the one going on is no longer regulated. That's for Shemper. Now for Raiffeissen, a cooperative who, along with the Slovenian mediator who lives in Maribor who is a semi-literate woman listening to her debate with HRT journalist, has been committed hundreds of frauds from this as you say and named it, it is no problem to name Raiffeissen a cooperative, so hundreds of frauds by people who have lost their real estate in the Republic of Croatia and no one to say themselves in this way, neither the judiciary nor anyone. And I agree with your replica, and we should also really do something about it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48083	Thank you. Next replica, Damir Cain. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48084	Yes, Mr. Grubisic, you asked yourself what the Croatian National Bank did? I'll say a lot she's done. What did Governor Rohatinski do? That's enough, too. What did the current governor do? I'll say the same thing. I do not defend the way Croatian banks operate and certainly should be limited to many things. Of those interest-bearing loans over these costs of Swiss operations, etc. But we also don't have the right to play with banks. I said I had just won 33 Croatian banks with 2.1 billion kuna in last year, for the first 6 months, it fell 40% to a billion and 200 million kuna in 2013. Ten Croatian banks are in losses, last and this year, which is very much what it says about the economy in Croatia. However, we must recognise the following, all the European banks and there is now the role of this CNB, so all the European countries pardoned the budget from 2007 to 2013, they rescheduled their banks, Croatia did not. Who's the one who got rid of them? They were rescheduled by the citizens of Croatia, we, not the Government, were resuscitated by the budget. So we're spared the one from the '90s where many citizens have lost their life savings through bankruptcy banks. Croatia's banks have been settled with billions and billions of budget money at the time, not anymore. The State Agency for Bank Rehabilitation paid citizens in 15 years 4.2 billion kuna. Now the Center of the Bank is about 500 million kuna. But what am I saying? Time is no longer on the side of Croatian banks. This law was to be passed in 2007. Banks must understand the Croatian reality and another moment likely to be discussed in this House in 2 or 3 months, which is a failure on the first real estate. When that law is passed then this package will be complete and then, and I want to believe that it will go into procedure soon, and then the opportunities with these banking moments for citizens will be much more favourable.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48085	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48086	My colleague Caine, you said the governors and the CNB did a lot. Well, that's enough! And secondly, when you're talking about getting banks and getting banks, do you think that in a country where everything that shouldn't fall and fall, I quote, starting with GDP and beyond, that bank profits should grow? If that's what you think, good for you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48087	Thank you. Next replica, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48088	Thank you. Well, here you are, Mr. Grubisic, to remind you of the debate, or something you may not have mentioned in the debate and what we discussed at the club, it is a question of collateral, banking collaterals that could also be a little better or more effectively solved by this law in consumer lending, especially when it comes to a collateral called guarantees. Collaterals called guarantees are not quite as common in these credit products throughout a number of European countries, and almost inevitable part of each credit arrangement concluded in the Republic of Croatia. The Consumer Credit Act could limit the use of this collateral, the use of guarantees. Or at least limit them to family members, parents, or mates, spouses. Because we had really unfortunate situations of tens of thousands of people who today and in the past paid the loans of other people who took them, and they were in some way innocent victims of it or naive victims of what they were. So, the guarantee issue, given that our loans are extremely well secured with a whole series of collaterals, I think that the issue of collateral that are called guarantees should be opened and the Consumer Credit Act should simply be limited to some people or completely disabled. Therefore, it is possible to disable this since banks take a whole range of various insurance instruments and generally have enough to start from a mortgage through real estate insurance so life insurance so the amount of income, check through the agency whether someone is creditworthy. Therefore, the question of guarantees as collateral loans could be opened and could, if these amendments to the law were not actually in the future, seek ways to limit or abolish the application.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48089	Thank you. We have a colleague Grubisic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48090	Since this is the first reading and the minister is here and we are talking about everything and we are talking well that there is the first man of the Ministry of Finance, I think there is still time to get that thing and I agree with your idea because there are really a number of loan insurance mechanisms, so from a life insurance policy, from a mortgage, and therefore three times more times the bank of a commercial bank is secured against the debtor. And it's really time as it is in other countries that this institution is guaranteed by people, and you've said well of these 270 thousand whose accounts are blocked should be added to the number of those who are guaranteed and to whom the debt of those whose accounts are blocked. That's an even bigger figure than these 270 thousand blocked.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48091	Thank you. Next replica Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48092	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleague, I'd just look back on one fact when you were saying "savings of 350 million kuna," not saving, or cutting revenue, so you compared it to bank profits. Of course, income minus expenditure comes to gross so net profit, colleague Cain talked about 2.1 billion profits last year's net profit was 2.8 billion banks, and when you get a net profit, and speaking of your 350 million count, 350 million to 2.8 billion is about 12%. These are not crumbs, and I have a lot to admit in the debate and discussions about the Credit Institutions Act, I think this is the Consumer Credit Act, and here it is clearly talking about protecting citizens about consumer protection. But I'm saying when we talk about crumbs 350 million aren't at all crumbs and this law that you're talking about and you're talking about 272 thousand blocked accounts yourself, it's not crumbs, it's something that makes this government constantly life-altering, realistically changing and adapting laws to the needs of living economy today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48093	Thank you. We have a colleague Grubisic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48094	Col. Gjurkovic, therefore, if we lose to Perkovic 600 million kuna because of the introduction of the Schengen regime if we lose 2 billion for the Pelješki Bridge, it is indeed a small 350 million kuna. And the other thing is if you say that last year's bank profits were 3.8 billion kuna, then 350 million kuna is not even 10%, not 12, but 8.5.9 is somewhere I'm going to do it. For this reason, if you were to add up the bank's profits in the last 2000 years, then you would see how much money and money the bank has been paid, and whose mothers are abroad, so how much money has gone to say from Croatia and how much is placed in the Croatian economy or in the citizens and you would see a terrible fact. But some other time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48095	Thank you. And the last replica of my colleague, Schamper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48096	In your debate, you said that stable savings are no longer being built. As far as I know from the housing savings you can get a housing loan to build a house or if you don't need it then take that savings. I also want to say that this savings is no longer as profitable as it was when state incentives amounted to 1,250 a year, they now fell to 500. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48097	Thank you. And my colleague Grubisic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48098	Comrade Shemper, it would be interesting if all the housing savings that exist in the Republic of Croatia gave us a report on how many loans they placed in connection with the construction of private houses or anything in the Republic of Croatia. I am as convinced as the minister has said that it is a very small number, that it has become a savings first and only then some lending of residential construction because we have apartments 50,000 more in Croatia compared to needs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48099	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin shared the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48100	I welcome Mr. Vice President of the Parliament. I join those who have expressed good wishes to Minister Linic. I wish him much courage and wisdom to continue to draw Concordia out of the fungi she fell into. It's not easy, but it's worth working on. On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club in the Croatian Parliament, I will speak briefly in principle that we support this amendment of the law, seeing it as a contribution to stabilising relations with bank loans and protecting consumers of these loans, which are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. However, I personally believe that this law also belongs to the cosmetics of the entire cosmetics of the law and that these cosmetic measures we take, and it is necessary to take them, will not get out of this "Costa Concordia" Croatia from its difficult moral, spiritual and economic situation, so I would have to do here in the final part, some things in my opinion and the opinion of independent representatives that Croatia finally steps out of a civilizational new relationship because I fear that this division in the Parliament that exists, which is as long as Croatia's independence and we see that it does not create preconditions for leaving the crisis, I would like to approach some reforms that I believe would bring better tomorrow to the Croatian people and that this Costa Concordia, in this case, Croatia, would be saved. It is necessary to approach Croatia's regionalisation in five historical regions, to decentralise the state budget through the regions, it is necessary to pass a new electoral law or legislation because with such a party-specific relationship between two powerful parties and those deserved in Croatian history with such competition, I am afraid there is no going out. A new electoral law is needed in order to overcome partytocracy in Croatia and to establish democratic procedures and democratic relations at all levels. It is clear that we are also in favour of capturing all political privileges because when the crisis, which is highlighted yesterday, we must all participate in this same crisis as soon as possible, and there are many political privileges, I fear that this government is reluctant to enter some cuttings. They have their reasons, that's for sure. But I don't think that in a boat that's stranded, no one can have privileges that count through ten years on billions, and that others are digging and asking for funds to survive in garbage cans. So we need to approach the root and structural changes that Mr. Shucker has emphasized in his replica. I therefore advocate and call for the creation of one positive energy of parliamentary representatives, we all boast that we were elected to the elections, but I would be a little different from who was elected on the lists by name and last name, and who went to the Parliament through the party lists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48101	Comrade Grubisic, please, we're talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48102	I'm finishing up, so he'll continue the replication of the law, of the changes, Damir Cain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48103	Thank you. My colleague Damir Cain is setting it up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48104	Your Honor, Vice President. Mr. Minister, everyone congratulated you on your birthday. It's my turn. We here all agree more or less that the gross burden is in an attempt to help the economy in this year transferred to the citizens and it is time to start returning in some way to the citizens themselves, so citizens, small entrepreneurs I claim to be today's most vulnerable categories. So it's time to help them. This law goes that way and it's not cosmetics. It sounds nice what we heard yesterday that the economy was disbursed, probably insufficiently but still for tens of billions of kunas, from VAT in tourism to untaxed reinvested profits, from reducing some parafiscal burdens in craftsmen the amount of 80,000 went to 230 thousand kuna, but still it's hard to imagine that this year 2013 would stop the decline of GDP, but also certainly according to just the analyses of our bankers that it would have to start growing in 2014. Now that we have here what's listed on page 1, it means a difficult position for citizens, I quote saying increasingly frequent cases of inability to settle commitments and nearly 300 thousand blocked accounts, an increasing percentage of loans that citizens cannot repay and their share in total housing loans from 5% in 2008 has increased to 12.5% in 2012. So the situation when it comes, so it goes past 12, maybe now it's 14% inadequate of these loans, literally ringing the alarm. Right, a bunch of citizens came into this situation, and we spoke in replicas a moment ago, because of the purchase of that apartment, the first apartment. We have someone saying the paradoxical situation that the number of housing units is 30% higher than the number of households. There is probably no such thing anywhere in the world, among other things, probably because jobs were lost due to the war in the east and then what other people had left than to move west, Zagreb, other parts. We have come to the situation in one word also so that after 12 years we may have to start thinking about the stability of the banking system precisely because of the inadequacy of these loans, i.e. the return. It's clear that the banking system is stable, but to be unlikely, what I'm going to say today is that the decline in profit banks for 40% happened, means it happened -40% for the first six months of 2013 compared to 2012. And I said in the first line that only the gain of THT means one Croatian company, one company for the first six months of 2013 was greater than the profits of all 33 business banks. The gain was THT's greater than the bank's profits for about 100 million kuna. Banks are going to run out of 350 million kuna by this law. It's not insignificant cosmetic money. But no matter what the citizens are in this I agree with the biggest victims with always small craftsmen. I'd even say that a bunch of small craftsmen or owners of those crafts are in a worse situation than the workers they work with. This law is a last-minute help, not a rescue, but I said help. If he's challenged to me, and I want to believe he won't be challenged in the Constitutional Court. It's just the following, I quote. Thus, in these credit agreements where the exchange rate during the repayment period is more than 20%, foreign currency growth relative to domestic interest rates or fixed rates, the margin shall not exceed the initial rate. And thank God someone came up with that. Furthermore, this proposal introduces a specific article setting out the maximum allowable interest rate on housing loans which must not be more than an average interest rate on approved housing loans per euro, kuna, Swiss in the Republic of Croatia increased by one-third and an article which regulates the maximum allowable interest rate on consumer credits, etc. etc. So the law is about some kind of Swiss. On the aside, it is as if I once again say Croatia at the top of Europe owned by real estate where even 92% of households have their own apartment. This places us third in Europe or in the world, which we link to the phenomenon that probably in Croatia the most up to now has been worth saving in real estate. However, the crisis has largely destroyed the financial potential of citizens. And now we have come at a moment not only to restrain banks but to contain this banking business and bring the business of banks in Croatia closer to the business of the banks of queens or mothers who have taken over the Croatian banks. And that's actually the point. And that's how I read this law. Why should I so express myself under quotes more equal or advantageous than my mothers in one Austria, Italy, Hungary or France? Exactly again, I am going back to what I was saying that the phenomenon of these inadequate loans is such that Croatian banks are more exposed at this point to far more risks than their mothers. But what's the point of Croatia is the banking crisis of the Istrians, the Dalmatians would say the lichen has passed not a single kuna watch out of the budget has been intervened for the stability of the banking system which was not the case until 2000. For example, the banking crisis one Iceland cost 90% of their gross social product, one rich, developed, decorated Denmark as much as 60%. The Croatian budget did not give a lip for it, and Europe entered the bank's recovery with about 3,000 billion euros. So the law wanted someone to admit it or not an interest rate so I could express myself as a revolution. And what is also important is that it clearly does not resolve this law that I mentioned earlier that the execution is not carried out over the first apartment. That solution is offered by the Italians, this solution is offered by the Spanish. The Croatian proposal as I read it from these working materials goes in the direction that an individual will be able to continue living in that same apartment. That's not what Italy suggested but it's very, very much compared to the existing one. All in all, it means this law and that law of conduct, or not, over that first apartment, is something that is positive and something that needs social experience. Currently, there are 269644 citizens in the Republic of Croatia with 20.8 billion kuna inability to service these loans. At present, 1351 houses are being looted. In one word, this law is on the trail I'm going to tell those famous Swiss verdicts. Otherwise, the verdict enlists and only helps citizens, only natural persons, because, for example, under quotes, there are professionals, such as small merchants, craftsmen, meaning companies do not include. Why doesn't it seem? I don't know. But I do know that this law goes to those little merchants, and that's something I personally very much support. All in all, one advance compared to what we've got so far.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48105	Thank you. At the presentation of counterpart Ivan Grubisic, we have three replicas. Dujomir Marasovic first answered. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48106	Dear Mr. President, Mr. Grubisic. I didn't want to report further in the form of a replica of Minister Linic appreciating the birthday celebration, so since the Minister of Finance is mine to honor at the end of this. But I don't want to keep Costa Concordia from you. You wished him to continue to successfully draw from this glare of Croatia, as they pulled Costa Concordia. God forbid you keep pulling her out like this because they found Costa Concordia in the state she is in and they pulled her out to the surface, and she didn't sink an inch and they found the state of the country bad, but they kept her away from the fungi, but they're going to put her at the bottom of the sea at 100 meters. Because all indicators of economics, these and those that I'm not counting your VAT now, this, that and everyone is negative and not going to the bottom of the sea, but going under the sea. And to you personally, not anything personal, political and your delusions, the delusions that you have been chosen as directly to the Assembly, that you sell whatever you know and do not to me from Split because I have long come to know your delusions. You're Mr. Grubishic selected from some list, called himself what I know advice, the union. It was the same list that had as much and as much as I from HDZ and the same number of votes had to vote for me as it did for you. And the same way my name and yours were treated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48107	Thank you, too. Here you go, answer me. Would you like to answer that? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48108	Well, I wouldn't respond to this kind of provocation because they're not at the level of discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48109	Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48110	Dear colleague Grubisic, you said this law is cosmetics. Well, look at this law itself, it's very significant. He is important to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Now, if we were to discuss the essence of what the government is doing, basically what we've been doing for the last 20 years then we could say that it's all expensive cosmetics because we're stuck in neoliberal capitalism and we admire the aesthetics of a chimney, and we're rotted on the ground and we're rotted on a roof. And that roof and you are based, the roof will collapse on the head of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and we continue to admire aesthetics. In itself, the law brings some relief, paper. We'll see how that goes in practice, see if the banks win. Remember that we brought those 6% intrusions, it seems to me 6% on the phone, so the capitalists in the T-HT sector rebelled, and in an hour the government gathered and they said no, they're going to invest it. And we know how they invest, we know we have the most expensive telephony, etc. So, I would also look back on what you said that only you were chosen, I disagree because you had an association behind you but I agree with you that we should fight for open lists. It's not the subject, but since the party heads would then be weakened, they wouldn't be great leaders, they wouldn't decide on the fates of their members, I'm afraid it won't work out for you, neither will I, because the party heads want to be God and a beating in the party and hold on to their party comrades and put them in order as they wish.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48111	Thank you. Here's my colleague Grubisic, the answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48112	I was not ultimate in calling this a cosmetic measure, but given the measures that I have listed in the end, I believe that there is a certain cosmetics, and until we systematically approach the root and structural changes in Croatian society, I do not expect better tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48113	Thank you. And the last replica, Drazenko Pandek. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48114	Thank you. Dear colleague Grubisic, I would also like to replicate your claim that this law is cosmetics and I could not agree with that finding. This law goes towards regulation of an extremely heavy substance that has been pretty unregulated so far, introduces some new relationships. They will certainly help the citizens who have already taken loans and those who will take them. A concrete example, here when we talk about overcoming the ongoing loan of relief that will be felt by citizens in real life will be significant. Also, where citizens were at risk of changing interest rates. I would point out that this is the first reading of the law. I also hope that this regulation may even be sharper in some elements, and I will also apply it in my speech, but I think it also makes significant more sensitive changes, not cosmetically. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48115	Thank you. No, there's no answer. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club Ivo Jelusic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48116	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary would be one of the few if I didn't congratulate you on this pay phone's birthday, so here I am congratulating you. But I will not be one of the few to congratulate you and express my satisfaction that you have both the courage and the wisdom and the political and the human beings to come out with this one bill of law that is extremely important and which in some way entangles almost all citizens, all Croatian families. There is not one likely or rare that any family in Croatia who in some way does not signify this law, which does not have any credit in any bank or if there is nothing to benefit from that overrun on the current account. So more or less all Croatian families, all citizens are somehow covered by this law, i.e. there will be a steady improvement. There was an observation here that, in this way and this law, we are intertwining in the relationship between the bank and the client, between the bank and the consumer, to enter into their economic relationship, into their market relationship, to side with citizens, etc. Well, from all we've been through these past few years, it's obvious that the state has to get involved, that the state has to start to resolve these relations because these relations have been balanced on the market, far more in favour of the banks than in favour of the citizens. Of course, this law is not against banks. This law in one long-term version certainly also benefits banks because what has been so far has not been a partner relationship between citizens and banks, between businesses and banks because in this relationship only banks have lived well, and citizens do not, the economy does not. I don't know what banks think after a certain few years, they drain the citizens and the economy, and who they'll work with and whose hunchbacks they'll live on. So this law is actually not directed against banks in the long term, but in some ways just puts them in order, brings them into normal market relations and not this kind of coffee so far. Someone would say, and there were such objections, so what people were doing with their own free will, they knew what they were signing, they knew what credit arrangements they were getting into, why they were doing it. So people did it because often times because they had no other exits because simply because of their own existence daily or because of resolving the housing issue they had to enter into a credit relationship in the most favourable then what was on the market, and unfortunately it was unfavourable and in some ways people believed in banks. Well, part of our people still thinks there's a state behind the banks that regulates it, so they won't be allowed to end up in an ambience as many have unfortunately experienced and as they ended up. Unfortunately, the state didn't stand there, the state wasn't the regulator, and the state has to be the regulator. In the end, the state and state in general, especially in stronger economies, got a little more involved in these so-called so-called economies. Market relations between banks and clients would probably not be the global crisis that we are in today because this whole crisis in Europe and the world is just caused by the way banks behave because of their greed and today we are where we are. Therefore, the state has the right and the task is precisely to involve itself in such matters and to make order when there is no order, and unfortunately there was no order. Of course, we have to take care of the citizens' interests. We heard that over 200 thousand citizens have blocked accounts, that they can hardly handle it. And on the other hand, when we look at how banks live, banks live extremely well. Over the past few years, 4 billion kunas have always crossed the banking sector in Croatia. So on the one hand they have banks that have extremely high profits on the other side of citizens who are in a difficult and unexplored situation that they can't repay loans, the economy is also extremely poor standing in the economy is almost rare to find a firm that works with profits. There might be some of them with profits if the banks didn't have that much money and they didn't work for the banks. There has therefore been an imbalance that simply needs to be corrected. Well, let's remember last year we changed this bill once again, we had... such provisions that are almost unimaginable that when you take credit with the bank and you want to pay it back at once because you came up in some way with money from your aunt from America or someone loaned you or found a more favourable loan somewhere else, you couldn't have done it without being retired by the bank. So you had to be punished because you want to get out of the normal relationship contract relationship so the buy-out relationship, they sell money, you take it. Well, if you want to get out of it, you're still grounded for it. We changed that last year. Now we're going a series of steps away. I think all these steps that are proposed by all these solutions that are proposed to be extremely good and go absolutely to the benefit of the citizens, but I say in the long run when we look they're probably not at the expense of the bank because they're only going to reduce the greed of the bank and she's a bank not only of one but of all the banks she's definitely agreed with for now we'll be. So what do we suggest? It is suggested that fees that often were a large part of the problem because people mainly watched the amount of interest paid little attention to the fees and they greatly increased the cost of the credit to be linked to the actual cost of the credit and to determine the clear parameters that the minister would determine closer and ban the introduction of new fees after the loan was concluded. Of course it's normal and logical and I don't know who can be against it or the banks that did it. There's also a new one, and that's when the banks negotiate to warn about the risks of that job, that not only is there money so much interest but also risks in terms of the currency clause and what can happen. So anyway, let's look at the cure is a useful thing, we all use it, or most of us use it for these or those things, but the pharmaceutical industry has forced itself to say besides the useful things of this medicine and what the bad consequences of that beautiful thing are, so that man knows what it's about. Now, there wasn't a God who didn't give it to us that we could force it, but now we're going to force the banks to say that what you're doing and that what you're doing is sometimes helping people is good, but it has its own bad consequences that could cause it, so please choose to make it clear and loud that people know what they're going into. There is also a new provision that interest cannot be changed to say just as it has to be defined for the solid parameters that will be prescribed. I've heard from the bankers that they say, and so far it's been prescribed since 2009 to treat certain parameters. Yeah, and did they behave? Hardly. I would say about their arguments like this, however much the citizen's interest increase saddened them on the other hand, the reasoning made them laugh. That's pretty much how they explained it. Therefore, clear parameters will now be established according to which only an increase in interest may occur if it occurs. Interest is also maximised in consumer and residential loans, and this is how much the maximum interest on housing loans can be on consumer loans. and just yesterday we are on the Committee on Finance, a representative of the Croatian Banks Association said that otherwise the Croatian Banking Association does not support such a law in this version and that it is not common in Europe that it is not a practice in the EU and the Eurozone to limit interest on housing or consumer loans. Yeah, probably, it's probably true. I don't know. But I certainly know that in Europe, in the European Union, the European zone is also not a practice of interest on housing loans of 5.5-6 and 7% as they are with us but is an average of 3.35. So if we had such a practice as in Europe that the average interest on housing loans was 3.3-3.5, etc., we would not be forced into such a legal solution. So when they talk about practice, let them look at the good practice of the European Union and what they don't like in some way, and obviously they don't want to look at it. They say you also know but our banking system is dependent on the capital market in Europe, in the world, our capital sources are much more expensive so that our interest in us can't be as low as in Europe. However, what is this really about? Our banks, under quotes, are ours because they operate in Croatia, because they work with Croatian citizens and businesses, and in fact they are mostly foreign-owned, owned by large European banks, so large capital. And they now give banks in Croatia under far more unfavourable conditions than they give to banks in Germany, Austria, etc. And where that profit remains again, so these banks, so make once the profits that are made here with us, which our banks make there, which goes to them and realize once again at a more expensive rate, give more money to our banks than they give there. Double the profits. It's a permanent financial colonialism that's on the scene. I don't know what we can do to change it, but at least we can say we see it. At least when something hurts us, at least we can tell, so it hurts us, at least we can admit it hurts. It is also proposed in variable interest, with already existing contracts to limit the possibility that if the exchange rate, if the exchange rate to which the credit is tied is increased more than 20% that the interest must be returned to the initial one, that at least it does not have to if the exchange rate has already gone up that the interest goes up. Of course it's also good because, of course, the banks will rebel, they'll probably go to certain complaints, who knows what it's going to be, but whoever loses what we're supposed to have, has the right to complain and to complain, but we also have the right to protect those who were in this situation in a much worse situation. Of course, all these measures will contribute safely to changes in the banking market, certainly that citizens will find themselves in a more favourable position, but I repeat, neither the banks will surely work with loss but will continue to make profits, decent profits, not as they have so far, but I think they should in some way share the burden of this crisis that we are in because they live on the citizens' account, on account of this economy. So, in a way, let it be as good or a little better than the rest of them, but not to them great and others bad. Comments all that there is politics now involved in market relations, in relations between banks and citizens or banks and clients. At first glance, you can say that it's really not right for the state to get involved in market relations, when someone's selling something, someone's buying something, and this is about selling money and buying that money. However, politics is exactly what it does because here are different interests, the interests of banks to have very good and high profits, but also the interests of citizens to get at more normal prices, at prices that are acceptable to obtain these loans. Therefore, when the situation on the market is such that this relationship is not equal, that it is not evenly distributed to that risk and profit, then it is logical that the state must intervene and enter order. So there's no order for the state to try and introduce order, and this is nothing but the introduction of order, so the order that will ultimately be used by long-term banks, but it will benefit the citizens from tomorrow. Therefore, the state has this task, we want to recognise through this policy this particular interest of citizens and their situation in which we are, to install that interest into politics, to install it into the law and to show that we are protecting it, and that is what we end up doing, and that is why the citizens have chosen us to protect their interests, not against the banks, but respecting the interests of the banks, but primarily to protect the interests of the citizens not against the banks but not to be directed against the citizens as it has been so far. It's our policy, we'll do it, we'll fight here in Parliament and elsewhere if it's necessary. Those who feel that it should not be politics, that politics should be or remain as it has been so far, to protect banks and large capital, to think further, we are thinking this way and this kind of project and this kind of legal solution will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48117	Thank you, too. We have one replica, Miss twilight. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48118	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Well, dear colleague, here's what I'm hearing about, and you are today through your debate in reality in order to support this law, you're only talking about how all and the hard life of the family in Croatia are blamed by the banks. It's not just the banks that are responsible for my colleague Jelusic, they really aren't. Croatian families and Croats have come into such a position because today we are not talking about how many employees there are but we must say how many unemployed there are. Well, there were 30,000 more unemployed in the summer this summer than there were in 2011. Well, people are no longer able and you say they don't trust banks, they don't trust anyone anymore, especially this government, because in 2011, that government said it had a solution to problems, and that government, unfortunately, brought us even lower. People moan, you know everybody feels like they're getting released, practically government, I'm walking out, they're calling themselves a drink because people can't anymore. This won't save anything, not those who have in Swiss, and neither will those who have in euro. Why, because they don't have jobs, because they're not salaries, because there's no government solution for employment, no pay, no economy. He can't. It's rocking the ground under its feet. This, this may help, but really, like my colleague Dalic said, that cosmetics is clean. Solutions are expected for employment, for the economy. That's what this people expect. And that's why this government no longer trusts this people!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48119	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Jelusic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48120	Comrade Sumrak, you said he blames banks for the difficult position of citizens. Yeah, the banks are guilty, but even more than the banks, it's your HDZ who let the banks do it. And that's why you're even more guilty than the banks and because you let the banks do it and that's how you drive the citizens, but also because of the overall economic policy that you've spent the past eight years. Let me remind you, although it's probably hard for you to remember all of you from HDZ. The total economic downturn we've had since the crisis occurred in the last five years about 10, 10 and a half percent, 11, how many, not to add up all those years. That's your 90%, that's your 9.9 and a half. It's the fall your governments have made. Much of the guilt is therefore that citizens are in this state of yours, not great but almost exclusive. We're just trying to get rid of everything that you left behind and it's not going easy. Why? Not because we don't know how to do it, but because such problems are deep that you left behind that really two governments, these governments and this SDP and its coalition partners should do it. And it will probably take us two mandates to finally and resuscitate Croatia on a green branch, about as long as it took you to bring her into such a difficult situation. You know how it's said to build something takes a long time, to destroy it is enough one day. You've destroyed eight years, so give us at least the same 8 years to make it right, and then we'll see who goes on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48121	Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48122	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, the Honorable Minister with the Deputy and Associate. Of course we join on behalf of the club for birthday cards. Of course, a lot of health, and here, referring to these replicas of citizens' trust in this government, it's interesting that there are many circumstances, and of course it's not a set of circumstances, obviously it's a network of work of this government and the minister, and the minister is one of the most popular politicians, and now, regardless of the difficult economic situation, it's obvious that people believe someone who works in a way that speaks openly, clearly, honestly, and that it introduces measures in which everything is clear and clear, is order and work. It's facts, so if we trust the polls. Obviously, the polls were well done because more agencies were doing them. So, let me go back to the topic now on behalf of the HNS Club, of course we'll support this law. But not just because we're coalition partners, as you usually say, so now we're doing it quietly. No, we, as you know and sometimes we make it clear if we feel that we need to make things right or add amendments and certain remarks as they are already said on the committees and delivered to this Croatian Assembly for discussion at meetings. First reading, which is extremely good and quality not only in public debates but also in discussions with the banks' associations and all other associations such as the "Franak" Association. Why this law isn't just a small segment, not that it's not just cosmetics, not that it's not crumbs. This is an extremely important law for Croatian citizens, a law that protects Croatian citizens, introduces new rules of play and certain regulation. There's a lot of debate here, of course, and it's been continuous for this government to be neoliberal, etc. etc. However, one is a free market, and the other is a regulated market for which we stand. We have a market economy, we opted out of independence for capitalism and entrepreneurship initiative, but all of this must be in one regulated economy especially in this segment when we talk about consumer loans but also in monetary policy and this is a regulated market and clear game rules. When we talk about Swiss people, then it should only be said on the way that the largest share of approved housing loans in Switzerland was from 2006 to 2008 as much as 25% of the total share of housing loans that were being placed and none of the policies were particularly loudly ruling then talking about any measures and possible negativeities of the placements of such loans. Today we have a law in front of us that clearly directs and regulates that there is no longer the possibility of having small letters, with a crossover, with not even writing certain terms in the contract, and that twice the party, the client, the citizen, but of course also legal persons indicating the risks, which is the price of that capital or credit that will be used. It's also the protection of competition and it's basically the protection of citizens and it's true when someone takes credit. Why this law is extremely important in this part of the Ministry of Finance and the Government of the Republic of Croatia because of what is happening at this point, that is, at the end of last year, it was totalled by the population of 126 billion kunas of various loans. 126 billion kunas. So here we've heard, we've been discussing 272 thousands or 269 thousand, which is now a more current figure in terms of a date related to the commissions of blocked accounts. These are extremely large numbers. And when we talk about 126 billion people's loans at this point, then it's quite clear that this law that introduces cleaner and clearer rules between banks and clients in the future but also for existing loans, then this law can't be talked about either as cosmetics or that it's minor or that it's just regulated there and there. Because only 1% of the interest on these amounts can't be said to be minor. And when we talk about liquidity, i.e. the current account minuses last year, it was over 8 billion kunas of minuses used by citizens to cover the obvious and clear need of life, and the latest data says it's about 7.4 billion. So, this law touches most of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, and it's about enormously large amounts and figures. And that's why it's good to go to two readings, so it's good to have a much more debate in terms of adding, subtracting, supplementing, regulating as much quality as possible and better, protecting citizens as much as possible. But also when we talk about getting banks, they're constantly saying that they need to be reduced, that they're making too much money. So how are we going to have a stable financial system if someone isn't profitable? Well, we can't determine if someone's gonna make 100 or a million. Well, it's clear that it would be the best quality, let's not forget that the banks have the savings of citizens, I guess for one part and you MPs and then the citizens of the Republic of Croatia who are being placed, and it's there in those 126 billion that are being placed. Because saving citizens at the end of last year was a total savings savings deposit of 161 billion kuna. Therefore, banks have and place the same citizens who know what a lombar loan is clearly knows that it is lower interest because it has less interest on the basis of its savings when it is used for any purpose. Therefore, we must also take care of the banking sector to be stable, in that segment where the government does its job and the CNB does its job. It can be better or worse done, the results are, of course, always felt with a certain shift because no law can act and have results immediately as they say. However, it is crucial that the banking sector also needs to be kept stable with its adequateness of capital. And also make sure that citizens are not burdened and also make sure that citizens can repay their loans without getting increased by these percentages where they are not able to repay loans because housing credits go towards almost 20% of the inability to return, or more messy return, let's say so. That's why this law is good for first reading. Could be, could be. But that's why we're all here as well as associations and banks, associations I mean citizens, to read it in an even better way for another reading, to prepare it to be as slow as possible, and in realising as much as possible in protecting citizens, but I also have to say and protecting banks because it's all essentially one body, one part of an economic system that is extremely important. So far, we have had the stability of the financial system and we have to take great care of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48123	Thank you, too. We have a replica, Ivan Shuker. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48124	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Gjurkovic, in some kind of mutual accusation, you're going so far away that you've now accused the Malteses of being guilty of Swiss. Because you say no one has warned, from this pay phone and on several TV shows and me and today's governor, and then the deputy governor we warned, and the current Minister Linic knows well because he was sitting there in the benches, warning of danger. Because when you have a big misunderstanding on the market between someone who offers you something, then what's very little in some future can be very expensive. Which, unfortunately, turned out to be. At the time, the difference between the Swiss interest and other loans in Croatia was too great. Then there was a huge expansion of credit in Croatia because there was a time of historically low interest. So that generated these duties. That doesn't mean these people don't need help, but they need help. But it is not good to accuse ourselves of certain things and simply then neither the Ministry of Finance nor the Government nor any parliamentary representative could have done anything. Just like no one else in 2006, when they were golden times, they couldn't believe that an economic crisis was going to happen. And when we talk about these huge deficits, the public debt, how much it came to be from 2003 to 2008, how little this public debt has grown and that it has fallen to some 26, 27% of GDP, and how it has just exploded in these crisis years because it is very difficult to control and some consumption simply, and so this government sees today it is impossible to just cut it like that. That's why it's not good for us to find some kind of quality solution for future non-critical accusations. And we attack each other in effect because it's simply not true. I could now throw out exactly of this 200 billion public debt as much waste on the government of SDP and the HNS, how much it wastes on some kind of HDZ time, how much the legacy of the former Yugoslavia wastes. However, it will not help the citizens of Croatia and anyone who is currently burdened with the economic crisis in Croatia. And therefore, it is not good to say things that unfortunately do not stand because those who have been hit by the Swiss have hurt greatly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48125	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48126	My dear colleague, I think that in my presentation, I have held quite a bit of facts, certain numbers and dates even something special, not stressing but in political rhetoric and conversation, it is clear that the late government's reaction to the crisis that has arisen in the world has certainly caused certain disturbances that have occurred in the economy as well as in the case of the return of the citizens who have them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48127	Thank you. We'll stop working now. I'm setting up a break. We'll proceed at 15.00 hours. It's 13:30.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48128	CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS [[Home is not saved.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48129	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary with the Deputy Assistant. Here comes my happy birthday and what to wish for rather than just smart ahead. What about this law and what haven't we said so far? Here we are repeating what is good, first reading, something we will hear and think again and implement in the final draft of the law, especially because here's all we're saying today I think it's well-intentioned and the idea of helping Croatian citizens is what it is and resulting in the adoption of such a bill. but it certainly raises the question of whether we could have done it before and certainly the answer is that we are esteeming and difficult negotiations with bankers and all that you need to take care of as legislators. I think this bill earlier was on the agenda to help a large number of Croatian citizens. We welcome the proposal and the club of Croatian Labourists-Parties will certainly support it. We are pleased that you have kept your promise and have implemented in this proposal the amendment that we have made to the Credit Institutions Act. And what I would certainly like to warn you that there would be no misunderstandings I think that, until the second reading, you might consider another situation where Article 3(2) would have to do something else. This article therefore speaks of the reference interest rate and prescribes that the bank may approve for the reference interest rate between Euro Libor and... or the average interest rate on citizens' deposits. The reference interest rate is then added to the fixed margin and the sum of these two categories gives a final variable interest rate. We suggest that additional parameters should be established when selecting the reference interest rate to protect the consumer or one of the proposed reference interest rates. This would certainly avoid banks choosing for the reference interest rate the one most favourable to them and the most unfavourable clients, thus allowing the bank to raise interest rates. The fixed bank margin allows the bank to record interest rates in such a way that they are close to that level of maximum interest rates allowed even though at that time the reference interest rates would fall. Now fixed banking margins range between 2% and 3% depending on the type of credit, and that is why we propose that additional regulation. The average interest rate according to Eurostat data on housing loans in euro area countries is 3.35% while in Croatia it is 5.37%. On the other hand, the bank reduced interest rates to deposits that are now close to the interest rates of those in their home countries while the interest on housing loans remains much higher in the Republic of Croatia. If we increase this average Eurostat interest rate by 1/3 what the new law proposes as the highest interest rate on housing loans, we get a maximum interest rate of 7.64%. It is an extremely high maximum interest rate at which banks can approve housing loans and here we suggest defining a concrete limit on interest rate perhaps to consider it 6.5%. We also have an effective interest rate problem that can be much larger than the maximum interest rate, and it is not limited by this law. Some banks are protected from exchange rate risk especially in residential loans so that the credit agreement has that clause that prescribes the lowest exchange rate to be calculated. So if the course falls below that level, the annuity is calculated by the minimum rate clause. In this way, banks are protected from falling rates while clients remain unprotected from exchange rate growth. We therefore propose to abolish the possibility of using such a clause or protecting clients by introducing a clause by which the client would be protected from the growth rate above that level. In this way, banks would be encouraged to react to a significant increase in exchange rates through new products or the convergence of credit currency and to avoid the passiveness of banks as we now have opportunities to see in Swiss franc housing loans. I believe that you will take this into account and think again about the Consumer Credit Act, and we must certainly warn of a few other things that we have heard a few words about today. Unfortunately, the unsuspecting Croatian citizens face on a daily basis are forcing our citizens to seek loans from various intermediaries. Although the Consumer Credit Act has been decoded in what way and how the consumer lending activity of this fate of our citizens can and should be carried out is truly amazing. We heard today about Raiffeisen's credit union from Austria, 168 families were disseminating from their apartments and houses, and what is certainly the biggest concern in all this is that Croatian courts made such a verdict even though the opinion of the CNB on their activity in Croatia was declared illegal. So that only once again tells us that we do not communicate enough between institutions, that we do not listen to these citizens because, of course, of these 168 families, the vast majority of them have spoken to the institutions, asked for the opinion of both the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice, but what we face daily is that we are tromium, too slow, and that we do not respond quickly enough to citizens' problems. The situation changes every day at a terrible rate, citizens are day by day in bigger and bigger problems and what we must for sure and what is our job to do is to listen to these citizens and to their problems when they warn us, especially to react. If we do so, then all of these citizens will be, in fact, to say so, officials and the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice and all the things where we should spotively address and the big problem, i.e. the big problems and the spot. We started fiscalization, tax culture, and that's certainly good. However, now that we're talking about these kinds of cooperatives, you've been given from colleagues from HSU and that famous flyer where every day we see what we're offered, in the Credit Law in Article 4. The law requires what standards are and what information must be included in advertising, and now we have a paradoxical situation. We have inspectors running tax culture, tax policy, running from facilities out and out of account, and waiters and merchants running after them with an account. In doing so, the inspector falls, breaks his leg, only to punish a certain trader or a business subject, and in parallel, we have these ads by columns, by trams where I assume that a large number of these inspectors are also looking at and seeing each day and seeing contact numbers on which they can be called and where they can receive credit information at any moment. These cooperatives also have an additional problem. They are not bonds of fiscalization because the vast majority of them charge the fees from the banks that they hired them to do so for their account and at the expense of cutting their time they contract a certain business with their clients. These fees between banks and intermediaries are very low. There are other paradoxes happening to us, and these are the famous life insurance policies that these intermediaries offer to clients who, in most cases, only come together for a year that doesn't carry long-term well to anyone, except that it increases the principal again, what counterpart Grubisic was talking about, because people don't have to pay for that insurance policy that's like such a guarantee to them. You will adopt a rule on everything that can be cost, and you should certainly take care of it and I think if in the Credit Act you decidedly determine some fee that these intermediaries should charge from clients so that in one part we can solve both a large part of these flyers and all this that the citizens face because at that moment any citizen who enters such an office, regardless of whether that office has the approval of the Ministry of Finance to perform brokering services or not, if you get an account of indirect services and a liability of fiscalisation would have such a guarantee that the job as such is concluded and I think we should and should take care of it. And even those intermediaries who work legally and who also have accreditations, or licenses to do this job, warn of the lack of them and those who deal with it in a suspicious way. So when we say that we should protect the citizens then we certainly are for this law, we support it until the end, but what we are warning all the time, what we are stressing is how much and how good it would be for the laws in the Republic of Croatia to be decided, in practice to be as simple as possible, not to let a lot of space go on with possible malversions that are happening precisely because the two of us read one and the same law in two different ways, and so these are all the things that lead to suspicion of some kind of well-meaning. And I think that if we really want our laws to be implemented in quality, spot-on, that we all know and that we all understand what we're talking about in a particular problem, it's very important that what I said about these changes to the credit law, about the amendments to this law, and that here's a particularly decadent statement and that we give citizens the opportunity to choose between the reference interest rates the one that suits them the most. This is then another possibility for them to influence, and it is likely that many will say that citizens are needed, that citizens do not know and that citizens do not understand themselves enough in the banking system to understand the banking margins, the reference interest rates and so on. But we certainly have NGOs, we end up with tax advisers who can certainly contribute to the education of citizens, to know what they are taking, to know how much they will cost, but to know what we are all doing, what we are getting laws have to be decoded on this matter, and to succeed in protecting citizens from everything that happens to us every day, then it's certainly very important that the institutions at the invitation of a particular citizen react without delay to what citizens are warning themselves about as problems to take into account and that the maximum strength and all possible capacities that institutions have to deal with as soon as possible, and not to come to a situation where we have to wait for a long time to change, and what we can do in one day don't really cost all of us together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48130	Thank you very much. Now we'll hear the replicas first. First, a respected colleague named Peja Grbin applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48131	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, first of all, I'm glad you've seen the importance of the usefulness and purpose of this law. However, part of your exposure cannot possibly be accepted. The first part refers to what you said at the end, which is the question of choosing the interest rate and the way you presented it. Your way is identical to what the bankers presented to the citizens when they were told that the interest rate on the Swiss francs was the lowest for them at that point. But really, we really need to think about how all of us here and even citizens can know today what kind of libor or eulybor will be in a few years. And that is why all these measures that are provided for in the law come, and that is why the question of variable interest rates should be regulated in this way. And the second part I find particularly unacceptable is your assault on the IRS, so I'd say every other inspection. For example, several thousand inspections were carried out in Istria this summer. Irregularities were reported in less than 10% of cases. Our inspection, and that's not how the IRS performs with the aim of punishing anyone. They perform exclusively and only with the aim of controlling the implementation of the rules and we should thank them for their activities, and we should welcome them. Their activities should be welcomed, not condemned and accused on the basis of some articles in the media that often have absolutely nothing to do with reality and the reason for sanctioning entrepreneurs who have found an irregularity in business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48132	The replica matches the respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48133	My fellow coat of arms, I'd really like to ask you to listen a little more carefully to the presentations. I didn't attack the IRS, but I did say that tax supervision should be taken care of. But I also warned of some paradoxes and asked for some kind of reorganisation of human resources in institutions where they exist. Unless we have people we hire people where we shouldn't. Here's to make a quality redistribution and catch the one where there's a lot of money and catch what gets caught that and to the detriment is every citizen of the Republic of Croatia. And I set a very good example that the tax inspector is a tax inspector I think 24 hours a day and that he has powers, opportunities if he has the will and desire to react to all these flyers he sees and there would be a lot of irregularities. The questions of the interest rate I only said that when harmonising, i.e. when adopting this law, when harmonising that the believer is obliged to offer all the variable reference interest rates and fixed margins so that the debtor would have the right to choose for him the most favourable variant. Because we're talking about three categories that we can choose, so I don't see why a client, or consumer, wouldn't be the one to choose between those three categories what's best for him and not to offer him a product like the Swiss francs you're saying and to offer him lies that he doesn't recognize, that he can't react to, and then take them because they tell us that we're all light-minded. And yes, the importance of the law is very high precisely because this law protects Croatian citizens as much as it does late and I hope that the second reading for this reason will be as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48134	The second replica stands for the respected Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48135	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Tyrelli, you said what Peja Grbin said, you talked about what the citizens say and what they complain about. Well, you see, I was in Orubica the other day, one of the villages that is known for the production of vegetables in Davor. And one producer of vegetables with 30 ha of peppers, tomatoes, etc. complains that tax inspectors, that tax inspectors don't care whether someone sells vegetables at the vegetable market from their garden or not. Namely, he doesn't go to the yard of whoever has the green card, so-called. The green OPG chart to see how much surface it has because it sells peppers for 3 months a year or watermelons, and it has 120 square meters of yard, but it has a green card and it has it. I think all of us here should be interested in the behavior of some people if we want to carry out financial discipline at all levels, even in this segment of the green market, etc. The fact that tax inspectors are getting those CDs as my colleague Schemper showed with hot women in pictures, and in connection with some savings and lenders, it is certain that these same tax inspectors get attached to windscreen as all of us offers for loans of such a suspicious nature and suspicious nature. And there's no reaction. So, I think you're right when you talk about it I'm not going to say unspeakableness and those who would be responsible for it for 24 hours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48136	The replica matches the respected Nancy Tyrelli. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48137	Well, I think that we're all on the same track, and I think the minister agrees with us in this section, and the question is how many organizational things can be done to the end with regard to the people, the ability of these people and all that we have. However, what we are getting is the next picture, so we lack money in the state budget and then we will punish and control all those who contribute or do not contribute to that state budget with taxes. In that case, we control taxpayers and what happens happens. And I keep saying that's good and that's okay. However, as if we are forgetting all the time that the higher budget of each citizen, so if we protect that citizen and protect the situation from the green card to everything that happens, the larger budget of each citizen of the Republic of Croatia also means a larger budget of the Republic of Croatia. For it is the citizens who are full and who contribute to every June that comes into that budget. Now it should be smart enough to do good and coordinate the capacity we have with people, be smart enough to say where the biggest money lies and not talk about how much we should work in those legal entities that are bigger, which belong to that category of big ones that are controlled. Of course, this is another topic that we should talk about as well as how much these big systems get incentives and everything from the state budget, and the question is how much they return to that same state budget. So we need to focus on those things where we see, and we know that they're going to pay us back, leave the money in the budget, and eventually, where we're going to have great results because we don't have too much time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48138	Thank you. The word now comes from Finance Minister respected Slavko Linic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48139	Mr. Vice President, here's the end of the club debate, so a brief review of the debate that's been held so far. I believe that we will soon complete our proposal for the final draft of the law and that we will probably be back in the Assembly on this subject during the half of the 10th month. But from the debates I've heard here at the clubs, the question remains whether it's the end or whether we want to go with the new proposal, with additional protections, which is not the problem at all. What we would really have to discuss if we wanted additional procedures and additional restrictions in the freedom of movement of financial capital, which is the area of government work and the power of decision in the Croatian Parliament is something we must try to assess. What assessments have limited stronger consumer protection at the moment? We have an estimate of 40,000 unsold apartments. Each of us calculated that the cost of living space would still fall, it was expected for a simple reason because large dues are in companies, losses, no loans, not paid to banks by companies, loans to build these apartments. But as we can see, companies prefer to go bankrupt, they prefer to go to pre-war settlements and I would say the price of living space in Croatia did not go down. Which means that what might attract citizens to actually go into the purchase of apartments is not even an incentive for a housing savings bank, nor is it an incentive to buy these apartments. The price of squares is the point. So it is evident that both the banking sector and the construction sector or those who own the apartments have not decided to lower prices. Here, we have an analysis that it's still dropping, but if we compare by square we're still above the European average. At that point, we evaluated if there really is a drop in prices and the possibility of finally getting to the apartment at a decent price because, let's be honest, the price of the apartment is the biggest incentive for citizens. There's the greatest protection of citizens. Allow me, our citizens went to the purchase of an apartment of 2500 and 3000 euros per square. Yes, those were the prices at which they entered the credit arrangements. There's the biggest problem, that huge amount because there were too many prices. So for us, it's a limiting factor if we really expected that fall to go with larger restrictions? What do bigger restrictions mean to you? The banking sector can be angry, free market theorists can say that it is not normal for the government to regulate the relationship between citizens and banks, but what can happen to us can happen to us to suspend the lending of housing. So, if we're really going to talk about any restrictions then we have to realize that too many limits on interest rates, too many restrictions on the freedom of banking business the answer can be no credit. So your proposals that go after that, for example, we can determine that life insurance can't be a fee, because that's a fee that's not a credit price. It's not a problem to install it into the minister's rule if you give it to it... it can't be. The question remains whether credit will then be granted, that's what we don't have an answer for, is then freedom of choice for the bank. The truth is, we can also make your proposal that you're talking can't be if it's covered with real estate there can't be any guarantees, independent friends or relatives, and we can build it on whether there's going to be a loan. So the risks of such protections that banks can thus guarantee the repayment of credit can only be answered with no credit, and the prices of the living room will still fall, so be assured. There is no exit, they must descend below a thousand euros per square square no matter where it is and in which zone it is built. So if we're going to continue with the restrictions, it's going to be a subject that we can talk about, but we need to understand that one of the problems that we're going to be facing is the assessment of the banking system so that it doesn't give away any more housing loans. But it's not the only problem, the biggest problem is our mentality. We were raised to want our own apartment. The desire to settle our standard of living, the need for life, the apartment we want ownership of our apartment, is unfortunately the problem that illegal housing savings happen to us then, they happen to us. So the moment we set up rigorous protections in relation to banking business, citizens who often want to solve their life problem and enter gray zones. How do you protect him in gray zones? I have to say that this second problem is whether by denying the possibility of getting credit or by simply reducing its placements, I estimate that too many risky jobs will not want to enter such credit arrangements, whether the citizen will then go towards the gray areas, whether it will encourage the gray zone. So they're not simple solutions that have no consequences. And that's what we have to do very well to evaluate if we estimate that we're going to protect citizens even more than let's say the cross-border business of the banking system, that we don't lack enough credit and that we don't get to go to the gray zone. Here I tried to tell you where the limits of further restrictions are, but in the end, from this debate because these are also your messages we'll be working on the system, so we'll see what we'll do next year, and we'll see what we'll do in the next year, and we'll see what we'll do in the next year. What I want to say very clearly is that your messages are as important as Agent Tyrelli said in the discussions we had before we had very clear and suggestions on what to do at interest rates, on loans that had too many exchange rates. Perhaps just some clarifications when we say that some reference interest rate, the average interest rate, so we list Euro Libor as Libor or interest rate on kuna loans, is neither a bank nor a citizen. The basic contract is in one of those currencies. So if the contract is in the euro, then it's an average interest rate of the euro, if it's a loan in kuna, then it's an average interest in kunas. But if that wasn't clear enough in this proposal, we'll try to fix it. Therefore, the basic contract which has been concluded defines what is the average or reference interest rate, always what the contract is in and where it is concluded. And we're going to think about your suggestion when you're saying that maybe the highest cost of credit interest plus the fee we try to split for ordinary consumer loans and housing, so we can cut it down, you know it's top 11%, but maybe it's not bad in that part to try to separate the housing, so we're going to consider your suggestion. And now a few words about the efficiency of controlling illegal trade. Fiscalization is one of the concepts and one of the activities where the Tax Administration is trying to put under control primarily cash traffic, but on the other hand, and the discipline of paying value added tax. As we entered these projects, we slowly increasingly revealed, especially through green markets, that there was illegal goods traffic. Money is a commodity and that's where I say it very clearly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48140	Ministers slowly bring the end, time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48141	Thank you. I'll get back to you. Therefore, our job is to control the illegal traffic of goods.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48142	Thank you. Now we move on to replicas. First came the honorary Branko Bacic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48143	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Minister, I agree with you in part of this presentation when you talk about limiting factors in the section relating to the purchase of apartments in the Republic of Croatia and that these factors are the high price of a square meter on one side. On the other hand, I would add the uncertainty of citizens to my workplace, given the long-term return of housing loans, so often they do not even engage in the project, and on the other hand a large number of Croats are working for a certain period of time, so they cannot even meet the criteria that they can become a beneficiary of the housing loan. But what I don't agree with you is that encouraging the purchase of apartments can't stimulate state subsidies or incentives. I don't agree with that. Namely, this project of yours POS+, which was provided with huge funds... the million people had failed because it was not affected and is not encouraged for housing users and in 2010, the HDZ government had almost the same model as you have now and this model also suffered failure. In a year, everything was sold 72 apartments. And then in 2011, we made a new model that in just a few weeks had a remarkable success where 1500 apartments were sold over just a few weeks, and it would have sold more than we didn't have at that time the funds in the positions of the state budget and I believe that this model is. In this sense, I also proposed to the state budget an amendment that with 120 million kuna, so that with twice as much funding as this model of yours, which is practically experienced by a classic debacle because only 5 apartments have been sold over the past 5 months, or 4 months to help sell that housing fund that is unsold, which stands, which is dead capital and which contributes nothing to the economy of the Republic of Croatia, and nor helps fill the budget through VAT that would have been realized that these apartments went into sale. Later on, when I talk about it in an individual debate, I will make another argument about it, but in that part, I do not agree with you that a fair model that can encourage the sale of apartments in Croatia. That's where we disagree.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48144	Time's up. The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48145	We've already had a controversy about it and after a year and analysis that we still have the price of squares too big, that we still have too many apartments, a huge offer, a small amount. If we had made models like this and models like that, and we can try to talk about models whether they're more successful or not, but the fact is that we have 30% more housing fund than family. This means that he still wonders who the models are intended for, someone who would buy a second and third apartment. Those families who do not have an apartment are poor and hardly able to enter into the purchase of the apartment and put themselves in charge of these uncertain times. This is why the coalition government is headed by Zoran Milanovic, who was specifically told by the Minister of Construction, turned to go with the rent model of the apartment, the cheap, safe rent of the apartment. This means that we're going to put the apartment into function, which means we're going to solve the building sector's debts to the banks, which means there won't be any write-offs in the banks, which means that we're going to find a solution in that part. So the message is that we want to take care of the poor, and that's all we can do... find and provide rent for the apartment. Citizens who are poor can't buy an apartment, and if you have more apartments than families to finance those who are rich enough because they already have one apartment to buy others to sell them, it's not this government's policy. We're changing our policy direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48146	Another replica and Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48147	Thank you. Mr. Minister, I also agree with you in the part where you say that you really need to do as you do here to take certain measures to keep this banking sector going, but still not to force yourself too much, because not to get another problem actually in the functioning of the economy. And when it comes to real estate, I don't agree with you at all, not even with your basic settings that you have about it, but everyone has their own settings. I think that, among other things, as one light motive, you're letting out a large part of the housing fund that's out of the big city area and which, for example, today is a good part of that housing fund that we're counting, where we have a household number, where a good part of that housing fund is de facto worth a lot less than the price of its construction itself, let alone that it's close to any economic value. And 10 years ago, it couldn't be sold, it couldn't be sold today. So, of course, when you put focus on the city of Rijeka or the city of Zagreb, then it looks different, hello or all around these cities and further along and across the whole of Croatia, this entire housing fund is actually very small values. So if you're going to spend 50,000 euros today in one village for land, permit and build a house when you put it under the roof and spent 50 or 60 thousand euros on construction alone, that facility won't be worth 30. So that's his economic price. So they're not there, there's a significant difference between big cities and small cities. And one more thing, about the insurance instruments. Here I would once again mention this issue of these guarantees when it comes to consumer protection and there is certainly still room around these guarantees that, for example, when banks activated various payment instruments, they always first targeted guarantees, so they didn't target the loan goal either, it was the car, it was the property, it was the other insurance instruments, but immediately after the debtor they targeted the guarantees directly as an insurance instrument. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48148	The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48149	I wouldn't talk about regional politics, but just one note. In the town of Zagreb, 14 thousand unsold apartments, so we have unsold apartments in large cities, there was built, and the low price outside of large cities means that someone can reach the apartment, but obviously there is no need. But obviously there's no need, there's no need. Therefore, whom should we stimulate outside the big cities and with cheap apartments if there is no need for it because it was simply migration from the surrounding cities towards the big city. But let's just try to see what we can do through the specific Regional Development and Investment laws in regional development because obviously something can be done in that part. When we talk about guarantees, we can ban guarantees by law. Try to understand that we can ban it by law and we can determine that it can't be any measure of insurance. That's something that's our grade. Will someone then be able to get a loan, whether your child will be able to get a loan without your guarantee just because he doesn't work indefinitely, precisely because he's just starting to work, etc. So let's try to figure out if the bank is going to go to one insurance, the other and the third we don't have the right to regulate but we can take away her right to have some kind of insurance. The main problem is whether we're going to give a child a guarantee to some of the citizens who want to do it. So the basic problem is why someone gives their name, their property for an unreliable guarantee. And in that part of the big one, we're going to discuss the law in the second part of next year, so if we evaluate that we can see it and there must be clear suggestions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48150	Third replica Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48151	Dear Minister, you said in the middle of your exposure that the problem is our mentality. We want to have, we want to have our own apartment. I don't know if you've ever been a tenant. Ask those people who moved 5, 10, 15 times and were tenants. You never want to do that again even when you have the slightest chance because you pay substation more than a loan war. The problem is in the system, the problem is in the system that he didn't regulate, which he didn't start protecting the citizens in time. The problem is even in a system that will offer citizens at a favourable price or market price, but to redefine the market price of sub-citizenship, renting apartments. The uncertainty that exists on that market is enormous. Have you ever heard of people wanting families with little children in their apartments? That's what the ads say, read the ads. People are forced to raise loans, they're forced to. It's different that someone buys a third apartment. When you talk about 40,000 unsold apartments, you should say that among those 40,000 unsold apartments, what you say is 15000 in the city of Zagreb is a large part of the apartments or one part of the apartments because I don't know which one was built with dirty money. That's where I totally agree with those apartments. Because if it wasn't built with dirty money, it would have been sold a long time ago. They keep the price at the level of the price before the crisis, they don't lower the price. They're not the ones who owe the banks. That's the money that was on the bill, it was built and it's a form of savings. And that's what we need to talk about. That makes sense, that logic of yours, the taxation of apartments. Much more complicated are problems than they often surface alone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48152	The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48153	I told you, the government said we're not going to stimulate the purchase of the apartment, we're going to rent an apartment. Therefore, renting an apartment where the Croatian State, its institutions, the Ministry of Construction will take over all apartments and banking systems that have been charged by measures of coercion and builders that will thus pay bankers to rent an apartment, an acceptable rental of an apartment without restrictions on parents with children or children. This would be done by the Croatian government, its competent ministry, and it was offered to the banking system to close their claims, not to be denied by the National Bank suspicious claims, to pay the housing companies their obligation and to place them in office and to charge for our VAT which is frozen in the stock of apartments. Otherwise, we'll support it with additional measures. Therefore, anyone who has refused VAT on the construction of apartments will have to return it if these apartments do not go into lease. And of course, the models were made, they were done in such a way that over the next 10 years we are not paying the amount invested in apartments, but financing that amount. So only interest would be the subject of rent and a tenth of VAT because in 10 years, VAT law would be paid off. So we're trying to work out models just to think about these citizens who are at risk of those who hold both the rent and the price of the apartment and to slowly bring it down to real size. So, the models in that part are really getting ready and talking seriously to the banking system as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48154	A counterpart, Boro Grubisic, also applied for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48155	To continue my colleague immediately, Minister Linic in connection with the role of the state to become the most fashionable. That's how I realized how you just said it. And just before you said that it's in our mentality that a man has his own apartment, that he wouldn't be exposed to the whims of the landlord and that he has certain security and that's actually the kind of savings. If someone pays 1,500 or 2,000 kuna rents an apartment, then they'd rather raise a loan that's such a war or maybe a speck bigger, a little bigger to have their own apartment. In fact, in some way, when the Croatian state is given a little better thought, it saves both the banking sector and the builders who own these 40,000 apartments or 15 thousand in Zagreb, so that the Croatian state buys from them apartments and rents them. Whom do you help and whom will you help? Who will you help? Those who can't be credited or builders and banks in the final instance? I think it's actually true this other one. You're helping them right now. Not to those who will go to rent an apartment. They, and if they're hired by the state, so the state as the most fashionable, will always want to have their own apartment. That desire and that mentality will never go away in our people. And you can't destroy it at all. ... Yeah, they will, 'cause the money's spinning 'cause that's not gonna happen, right? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] It's old Bosnian or I don't know whose saying it is, right? So that's why they won't be able to achieve the desires that stem from their mentality, from our mentality. But the desire to have your apartment, your roof over your head will always stay. You can do whatever you want, you can help the banks and those who built these apartments, the builders who and that gray economy as Vuksic says here, and I don't know in the gray zone they built these apartments, laundered the money, but you won't ruin that mentality. And that the state becomes the most fashionable, that's ridiculous.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48156	Thank you, Grubisic. Time's up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48157	So the state gets rid of the INAs, the state gets rid of HPB banks, Croatie, and now she's taking apartments all of a sudden. Well, look at the wonders.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48158	My colleague Grubishic, does the Rules of Procedure mean anything to you?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48159	Thank you very much. Here, okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48160	The replica matches Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48161	My dear colleague, I never said the state would buy apartments. No, rent apartments. The apartments remain owned by the banking system. It's bank-owned apartments. The state will rent them, make sure the citizen gets, pay the rent, and pay the interest to the bank because we use her apartment. So where's the money for buying apartments? So we're just trying to say our goal is to organize a market rent with other people's apartments so that banks don't deal with it without having the security of rent, billing and renting. But my dear gentlemen, we don't intend to pay for the flats that someone wrongly built. But there's something else, I guess we don't understand each other. Citizens who can't afford to buy an apartment because those who are slaves today weren't well able to buy an apartment, a good part. They need your help. That's our logic, that's the logic of this government. Help citizens who can't afford it, and even when they want, I don't know how to have my own apartment. And that's one story. The second story is when on behalf of the government we say how hard to squeeze the banking system and so we're trying to say that we're aware of this very mentality I want to have an apartment, I want to buy my son an apartment, I want my daughter to buy an apartment because that's what you have. And that means we need banks and we need their apartment financing system. And that's why we can't push it too far. And here I tried very clearly to explain why this law is not excessively rigorous.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48162	Time. Last replica and colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48163	Thank you, Vice President. So here's the minister we agree on a lot of things but probably in the biggest thing that we all agree with is that we have a terrible lot of work to do and that we need to connect a lot of these combined vessels into one whole to make everything work together. You asked at the beginning of your presentation whether to put additional protections and restrictions on or here let the freedom of movement of capital in order not to enter that gray zone and that the state must save citizens who are in the gray zone and then you asked yourself what if the banks no longer give credit? I say to you that banks as such will always find a way to lend loans to citizens, and there we need to know what rules of the game we are putting into the protection of these citizens because now that we're looking at the situation the way we look at it turns out: so the bank is over the mortgage, or a guarantee of paying for some kind of loan put a mortgage on my apartment or house, and I failed to pay off the loan, that house or apartment remains a bank and now the banks have an awful lot of apartments in their possession and the state is now taking from these same banks and apartments to rent them to the citizens so that the banks don't have any expense. That's how we talk about it now. However, if we let the banks have those apartments that were guarantees of payment and they had mortgages and made those banks sell them somewhere on the market, I think that some kind of economic logic would still put them at a lower price and make them more favourable. And why am I saying that? I'll tell you the following: we have a bankruptcy case where the bankruptcy manager says we're going to sell the company's assets, the appraiser comes in and evaluates the property, sells it for the first time, sells it the second time, sells it the third time, and you end up having a situation where Hale and the property of the company as a legal entity is sold for invaluable precisely because it couldn't be sold before. Let's think about it a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48164	And this replica corresponds to Minister Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48165	I agree with you all, and we can talk about it. I wouldn't put too much pressure on whether we'd find an interest or not. It's been a year and nine months since the new government took responsibility, how much has the cost of the apartment dropped? Very little. A year and nine months of empty flats, a crime. Let's move on, you didn't just say bankruptcy when it went first, second, third, fourth, fifth sales, how many years? Ten! So a government that really wants to solve problems if it's going to allow itself 10, 12 years to wait for someone to change their mentality to realize that they're losses, that they're going to jeopardize their business, that's too much time, that's huge irrationality, and that's very clear to you. So there's a banking system that has expensive apartments that we don't care about, and there's these cheap ones that if they're not sold and they can't sell, they need to go out and that's where the government wants to help. But you forget that there is a 30% of our citizens who will never be the owners of the apartment because their salary, their pension makes it impossible, and they are exposed to enormous pressures from the owner of the apartment in unregulated housing relations. And when we're still rounding everything up, then it's enough to tell you, and why we're not going on a real estate tax that's going to punish whoever has an empty apartment, punish, fill the local register, not the state's, we don't want that. Thus, we have now come to our fundamental problems. How to get someone to put property into operation by tax system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48166	Now we're moving on to an individual debate. First came from counterpart Ingrid Antičević-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48167	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates, colleagues and colleagues. So this bill can only be passed by the Social Democratic Authority with its partners. Even this kind of problem can be seen by other authorities and previous ones have seen it, and often as they ruled, they appealed to the bakers to lower the price of bread, so they appealed to the banks to lower interest. But which serious authority because I think it was the highlight of cynicism because every government has the leverage to do and implement its policy, not to view as Pontius Pilate side by side and condemn others. So we here often and by HDZ we see the attack on banks and not just now, but all the years before. So the banks are these villains of the bank cleaving the skin, the blood banks are bleeding then we competed with each other who will be more epithetists and who will be more rigorous in that criticism against the banks. It's one unserious thing to absolutely criticise banks is a non-serious thing. It is serious how much a country has leverage and wants to use its mechanisms right now and all its mechanisms are at its disposal to discipline them. If he can discipline a small citizen, he can also discipline banks. This proposal is also the best answer to the team saying that this government is not doing it. It's just that it's this kind of bill of law, but it's kind of because I know that no one here can be against this law, but what he wants to do now is to reduce the importance of power intensity with this bill, and I want it to be as many as possible, here's the minister of some similar thing still announcing, I'm just saying that this kind of good thing is diminishing. So what we have so far had in the banking system and how banks have acted is only a normal consequence of the abnormal state that this government wants to correct and stop and change. Of course, more time has passed that it will be harder because this system is rooted, it is one already hard system and, of course, it is not easy in all of it. But the weight of the task is not an excuse to give up on him to be even more persistent in it. And right now I'm going to say what the minister has mentioned here that, above all, real estate tax, but what someone sees in poor citizens can't be equivalent at the same time. These began to be the first ones to become rich, so banks that have impoverished people often have responsibilities often and recklessly, but it is a negligible thing, so where people were left out of work, etc. Where they locked hold the keys, keep the empty flats won't lower the prices. We go first to the property tax of that kind so you can see how you'll still be asked to rent them such apartments or sell them. So this is what I was about to say at the outset as a great differentiation, a specificity between governments as the authorities differ between those who wonder and those who do something especially when it comes to this kind of thing. I would like to point out immediately that in many activities and we see now and in school education, different forms of education appear different associations, there is a problem of ethics, ethical message, which is quite neat and quite legitimate. But it is surprising that no one has asked the question of how many generations of economists on neoliberalism have been educated where the basic criterion of such education was the supreme principle of action especially here in the financial sector and in the science of finance, greed. Greed is good, a life of greed, but morality is for cowards. It's something that lives in that banking system, so these young bankers are raised and they behave around the world. So that's why states have to get involved, but their basic password is don't get involved, let us go, and when they go bankrupt, then they can knock on the door and save. Therefore, the matter is very simple, which was managed and handled unless they were stopped, so the profit is mine, the profit is private, and the responsibility is social. Especially that's where it came from. Perhaps the most vivid representation of all of it was given by the man inside, the man from Goldman Sax Greg Smith who worked for years in that stock market and credit-based big world institution, who said: at the end of the day, no matter how much we earned each individual on the client, the question is how much money you made on the client. And as much as your amounts from month to month were bigger, it was always a question of why you weren't anymore. As long as this goes, in mutual communication board members, boards, so administrations, clients, whether they were natural or legal persons called muppets, because they were able to do whatever they wanted with them as rag dolls. Even those clients he says and warns about, who suspected, who asked some questions. There's been a lot of questions here about the lack of information. As soon as the client, however rich and influential, asked more detailed questions, he needed to be resolved after that. That's what these monsters are for, which are not for them or at least for them, but for those who made it possible, and these are the states because this is exactly the kind of system that has captured policies. So this is, however small the changes are very important for us and small Croatia. Because there was a speech here today that would be such a breakdown, after all, with their business and caused them because banks and banking money transactions serve to help and promote economic life in one country and globally, but they are now bound to material constraints. But from the moment they secededed from that material restriction, when money could be multiplied indefinitely through its financial statements without any real basis, so-called. derivatives as they call them then, of course, that it was possible to do whatever they wanted or how critics of that system have been warning for the past 10 or 15 years that they used weapons of mass destruction in such a way. So real wealth, we're witnesses, no longer lying in the economy, no longer lying in industries, in the mutilated industries, in this real sector, but in the banks. Now what needs to be done is already today there has been a talk of a better one, after all this law and the law and it speaks of it, of a better and one duty to inform the customers themselves. But what I want specifically to point out is that and I'm going to do it again, so we can only correct one part of the injustice with taxes, but if there's been an injustice from the beginning... one law that wants to rightly... in the good part and retroactive action, that's its great value. But that such laws and similar laws want to be created over and over again, a more balanced, start-up relationship so that the rich are not very rich, and we don't have poor people, but average people who, if they can work, can live on their work. We have long since written in the Constitution and not by any of its transitional, final provisions or somewhere in the middle but by the very first provisions speak of the social state and social justice in Article 1(1) and Article 3(3). But that means what the social state is, many people have understood it, and even before we do, the authorities that the social state is the one that deals with social welfare and shares social assistance. The social state isn't a state of social affairs, then it's not a social state. The social state is the one who recognizes things and puts them in a fair way at the beginning, and that is exactly what this bill does. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48168	We're moving on to replicas. His first call was from a colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48169	Dear colleagues, I agree with most of your views. However, what you said and the practice of this government and your coalition is quite different. You're talking about the social state, the social state settings, I agree with you, the social state is not the state that gives crumbs like many people realize it's social, we'll get rich and then we'll give it to you. Yes, the banks are predators, and in all these predators, in fact, with these predators the only rule is to take as much as possible in the shortest time. And that's when you realized that the state should be involved, but it's been almost two years and it hasn't interfered. You said at the beginning that he wanted to reduce the importance of this law. No, I don't think it's any of the MPs who discussed it here said that the law isn't good. However, it is the same to you as I often do not hesitate to say in my party who struggles terribly for the Labour Act, I say everything else is neoliberal but the Labour Act will be favourable to you for the workers. Well, in which you saw it in the capitalist system, and we're not in capitalism, we're in wild capitalism. So we're making a deal about how it's gonna be, so as the government and employers agree, and then most of us will raise our hands. There are thousands of problems that need to be solved through this, and we're not going to catch the foreign exchange clause, we're not going to catch it. We know that dirty money built apartments, we know it's 40,000, there's so much trouble. We're just pointing to problems, not that this law is wrong. I said in the first line that this law is good and that this law is one step forward, but we often take the intention of two steps back and where are we? I'll tell you where we are in the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48170	Replicate response, respected colleague Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48171	I would tell you because what you just said about why it didn't happen before, I could say that not only for a legal proposal which is our duty to discuss it here and to make laws but for every good thing in life has a good thing, there's only one flaw that comes late or can always be said why it's not before. But a whole series of measures that the minister was talking about today, and the government is always repeating, I don't know if you want to hear or not, how much measures he's taken in order to do exactly what I'm talking about and what you're talking about and what we agree on. But obviously you don't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48172	The next replica, the esteemed Kresimir Bubalo.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48173	Thank you very much, Vice President. Minister, dear colleagues. Namely, in your presentation, there is an impression that what we are doing in the Parliament, but what we have often pointed out is criticizing banks, no, it's criticizing a system that hasn't been set up in the past 20 years, and for this very reason there have been deviating situations that our citizens have been paying dearly for loans, and exactly what they've gotten through an effective interest rate was not a calculation that should have been controlled by the National Bank. So the system failed after years, and there wasn't enough control. That particular control from the National Bank through an effective interest rate would be helpful. And it is also often pointed out that just through the tax on empty property should be put into operation. It's one way to squeeze the bankers, but I don't think we're going to push this bill to the end of the banker, either when it comes to the foreign exchange clause, specifically referring to the Swiss, and also to an effective interest rate. Here we must react more promptically, we should not wait for the reference interest with 1.1. I think we should go much faster and much more operationally if our proverb and that proverb that applies to our citizens is to live on the loan of the majority and die on the wars. We do not want Croatia to die in wars and our fellow citizens. Therefore, this is exactly the kind of proposal, but with certain adjustments, it must be applied within the next twenty or one month. It therefore strengthens the control and the National Bank not to protect the National Bank but to protect our fellow citizens. And it is also often pointed out that the state should manage business spaces but also housing units. This has proved to be bad in the past, and today it is shown that the state does not manage its properties and does not put them into office. It would therefore be impossible to place into function the properties that are owned by a bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48174	The replica matches the respected Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48175	One of the greatest pranks of neoliberalism is that the state is a bad master. The truth is, there are bad masters that are private people you have and good ones. There are also very successful countries that have mastered large systems and have not given them up for privatisation. Something that the state is responsible for assessing should be given in privatisation that it will privatise it. But just in this business area, the good part is given and the good part is that I can agree with you that so far we haven't really managed state property, and it's still in these squares big, it's abandoned, and now the state is just trying to put it into function. It's a shame that until recently we didn't even know I don't know if we still started a list of state property in 2000, but it was intentional so that we could darken someone up. While some were liberating the country, others were liberating apartments and squares, it is an old thing and it is already known that it embarrassed and long traumatized Croatia almost the same as the attack on Croatia in the Homeland War. I say a lot of things while some of them were fighting and those terrible things were happening, but it would lead us back to another story. However, I agree with you also more control because it is the role of the central bank, the final and European Commission has now talked about it because of the numerous criticisms of the Member States, but also when you said both control and system and inside so all of this that has so far been done and what you want to end was the opposite, not only in the Constitution but also in the Law on Mandatory Relations which just says that every thing we saw once again we repeated this material from high school, we who later did not study finance that money is a commodity, has a price. And that price under the Bond Act must be determined or must be determined and that is not the case. And this is exactly what the bill wants done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48176	Thank you. Third replica, respected counterpart Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48177	Well, here's my colleague's lawyer, and I'm a little surprised by your exposure and additional explanations, sort of in the spirit and style of conspiracy theory and banking monsters, but good all ok. Why not? Banking monsters would actually be turning out to be a danger so I could ask you what you think or here in public to give us an explanation of what you think about this one little Balkan monster named the Croatian Bank and who has torn these 50 million kunas from this naive state, so that you can describe this relationship in order to describe this relationship to us publicly explain how it came to us and whether there are guilty or just naive? Here you go. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48178	Just like this, fellow Ingrid, we're not gonna throw ourselves like this. A colleague, Djurovic, cannot ask the MP a question. The questions are raised by the government. You can replicate but you can't ask questions. You want to respond to this replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48179	Well, you guys when you want to replicate to me, then you actually want to say what you're about to say and maybe you thought I'd say it because for years there's been an attack on the banking system. By attacking the banking system and doing nothing, he only strengthened them. And I'm appealing to it right now. Where you've been, you've been outside, and have you listened to me say that we've been fighting here all the time, arguing about who's going to attack more banks, who's going to call them gourmets, dericoces, bloodsucks, and that's running away from responsibility, that's the responsibility of every government as it allows someone to behave. Well, most of us here, most of us, most of us, is a small part of us that would strictly behave without any rules, but most of us need rules, but they weren't here, and they were acting the way they wanted to. Why, because they could do it. And why, because so far the authorities have observed it on the sidelines and thus have encouraged them, and how many they have been trapped with them do not even need to speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48180	Last line, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48181	Thank you very much. Comrade Ingrid, I would be very sad if you would withdraw the consequences of your words by the Prime Minister i.e. Your party president, party pardon. So you said the state wasn't a bad master, and yesterday we heard here on the current morning that the state was a bad master. Now it is you who agreed at the club or I don't know where to make a deal whether he's a bad master or not. We don't need trains, we don't need HPB, we don't need Croatia, we don't need anything. Forests, water, and I guess it will stay in the state too, and Perkovic can, let it stay in Croatia, all of this can go out. Now I didn't mean to talk about it, but you pulled my tongue. In fact, you were talking about one of seven deadly sins, which is greed, one of seven deadly sins, so you almost got involved in religion because you actually quoted South American bishops as saying with the social state in the theory of liberation. So you go all the way into the religious area, and long ago the Jews say that it's kuna per kuna or I don't know which currency wherever they live, so it's slowly acquired. Take it easy. He said Vuksic quickly and quickly, so quick and fast profit, that's what in our banks as you called them monsters, I quote only you, have worked in these 20 years for the Croatian state and dragged their citizens into debt slavery. And we have to admit it, now we have to admit it. Well, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48182	Replication response, Ingrid Antičević-Marinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48183	I guess a colleague in your party has to think of it all the same, but I said if you listened a little better even though it's no sin for us to think differently about a lot of things, that both states and privates can be bad and good masters, that's what I said. Furthermore, as far as greed is concerned, I agree with you and it's a miracle, so as a Christian country with a majority Christian population, it's a little bit of who, so when the consequences came then some associations but still focused on just one case, not what you were talking about. Well, now that you mention that sin, I can remind you then that Dante Alighieri put such greedy people in the fourth circle, but if he had learned the scale of this greed, they would have certainly reached the ninth circle. And another thing, I often mention Latin bishops because they are the most socially conscious, but today I really didn't mention them, you reflected as if I mentioned them. But since you spoke to my line so that you might have a basis for it I'll tell you that a Latin-American archbishop known for all he's got was shared with the poor and they said so this is a saint, but also he said he called me a saint when I share but when I wonder why this people are poor, then they say I'm a goddamn communist.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48184	Now we'll continue the individual debate. We have eight more reported and four more points of the agenda ahead of us. A respected colleague, Branko Vuksic, applied for the debate. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48185	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister of State. Here I repeat, this is an important law and it is certainly a step forward and the smallest protection of Croatian citizens or, as we call them here also in consumer law, not business partners of banks because they are in the consumer capacity, because they are a different category of citizens. So such protection is welcome and no one, I don't think anyone has the right, has the right, I don't think anyone in the House will object to the adoption of a law that will help at least a little Croatian citizens. However, whether Croatian citizens can wait for small steps even though the Plan 21 announced rapid, effective reforms and will all be resolved by 6 months. Remember that, you have already forgotten the likely announcements of economic recovery before 6 months 2012. You've already forgotten that. And then when we take a step forward then throw us two steps back. The data says that we have 270 thousand blocked citizens' accounts, 570,000 on the way and on the way to get out of property, 52% unemployed if what percentage is guilty 50 is enough to say, 48, 55, anyway, under 25 years old. 330,000 unemployed, every fifth person cannot be fed. A little more than a million and 400,000 citizens live at risk of poverty, these are facts. And what we're giving now, we're putting something on the hood and we're accepting it and it's good to accept it. However, here it is said in the Parliament why you mention it, what we have done. Measures have been taken, so I'm now asking all of us how citizens can't feel what measures they've taken. More and more citizens are living harder and it's a fact, I don't even think anyone in power is arguing, and we say don't talk about it, let's talk about good things. I wish those numbers were much less, that everything that falls should not fall. But what was said did not happen. This debate could have the bank's title and the authorities love each other publicly. Mrs. Anticevic used to say we're constantly attacking banks, I don't understand that sentence, and then she attacks banks and says HDZ and we're actually competing in banks and the banks are getting fatter and fatter. How many billion euros have they taken since they were sold in the Croatian state? Why don't we tax cash transactions? It's always said the banking system will fall. Everything fell in Croatia, but don't touch the banks. Two-and-a-half million people can be in debt slavery, which is two-and-a-half million people to banks. The banking sector has fought to be a sacred cow, we worship banks, and that's a fact. Every time the minister speaks every time he says we need to keep what's solid. They're solid banks with solid profits. Profits are flying into the sky, and citizens are getting harder and harder. There are countries that have said we will not protect the banks and experience bankruptcy and rise. So we're you, the last time Mr. Linic told me so be you and you declare bankruptcy, etc. But it can bankrupt all 4.5 million people, it doesn't matter, the main thing is that banks are healthy is we're healthy. So people get sick because they don't have anything to eat, they get nervous about taking away their apartments and we say don't. They can fail, but the banks can't fail. The risk of business, so the state allowed all the risk of banking to fall on citizens' backs. Someone used to say that citizens were surprised I think it's the Retired Party that citizens are the ones who should have thought about what loans they're taking. On one side experts and state together in love on the other hand a small powerless man who seeks as Mr. Linic says, his roof over his head because he wants to have. Tell me one man who doesn't want to have one. On the fingers of one hand can be counted perhaps in an entire state that does not want to have. It's a human having. And the bank protected itself without protecting her 10 times, 20 times, and who regulates that protection? So the state regulates, the state allowed the bank to write that if the course falls below five kunas to three kunas then a five kuna loan will be paid. But when it grows to 25 per 25 kuna. It's been tolerated for years. Well, that's the problem with Swiss. However, while constantly being warned, some experts also warn even though there are countries such as Hungary. where the prime minister said we will no longer allow banks to generate extra profits on behalf of Hungarian citizens. Yesterday we listen here in the Croatian Parliament as our distinguished prime minister, no matter what state banks, we hear a fellow state bank. What state banks, no state banks, is a lie. There's no co-ownership, there's countries that do great business. That is why ideological topics are being forced that we are discussing lex Perkovic about Cyrillic gay marriages etc. At that time, when we come to, we'll see we've got nothing left, we've sold it all out. Some of the countries that sold it back buy from the water supply beyond anything we say, says our one minister we'll sell everything except water, I don't know, but I guess we'll sell water when it gets to our throats, then we'll tell us too much water, and we'll sell it. The risk of business has fallen to the burden of citizens on their backs without the state protecting them. She didn't say share that risk with the bank. It is the easiest business in Croatia when banks are protected as a bear. Is that an attack on banks when it's said we share the risk? Let's talk about the foreign exchange clause. It's absolutely certain that we're not letting the island in the middle of the big ocean, that we have no real contact with all the other states, that we're not part of a global village, and that it's very difficult to get out of that situation where we are because we're actually a banking lobby, we're just one drop in the sea. All that's done today is exactly what some colleagues used to say only this system makes sense this is the only thing that can be done. Look, imagine telling a man that you only have that option and no one else. Well, from Friedman's appearance to today, the only thing you have right now is that we live 1% fantastic, and 99% of people live off our crumbs, and then we say that's the one thing that's left is utopia. They'll wake up. After all, there's this famous little book called Awake! People will wake up where they will no longer allow this way, where they will say and stop you in the Croatian Assembly following the brain on the one hand say there is no other, and on the other hand you pretend to be a social state. I'm glad to say that because I dare say that, I'm going to make that little drop to oppose what many stand for here and that's that there's no other, there's only this that 2.5 million people in Croatia live in slavery to see more and more people digging through garbage cans and that's the situation. I'm going to raise my hand to this law because it's better than the legs we have now and it's not at all controversial. And no one is saying that this law is not bad, but in many aspects of which we have talked about today and we should start discussing it in the Croatian Parliament and we should see how to reduce all these catastrophic figures. Never again has profit been like in times of crisis in Croatia and globally. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48186	Now we'll hear the replicas first. The first one was Boro Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48187	Comrade Vuksic, you have well mentioned Hungarian Prime Minister Orban who, in fact, would be good if this government had what he has, and in fact has no reason to hit high taxes on bank profits and interest taxes. The banks threatened to leave Hungary and no longer have anyone to lend loans to citizens, businesses, said leave Hungary. No one left, very few left or very rarely. The other thing is, by looking and listening to what was said later, and this is the rent of apartments and coming out to the banks by the state, I actually have to suspect, as much as Mr. Minister is angry at this birthday, that there is a deal, an agreement between banks and the central state how to resolve it, and that these 350 million that these crumbs are going to be estranged from the banks, and that's what Mr. Linic announced that the Croatian state will rent apartments on behalf of the banks. Which is why banks don't offer their apartments on the free market if they become owners, by any means necessary. Why, well, this is a liberal-capitalist system where the market is completely free and the real estate market is free, but the state will rent apartments. So I'm also questioning this state-bank deal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48188	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48189	Dear fellow Grubisic, once upon a time, Mr. Todorovic said when he was attacked, "I'll go furiously," and I'll sell out everything so I can see how he'll live and how many people are going to be out of work. Watch out then no one will eat bread, no one will go to the shops, just waiting for everyone to produce something. That's what scares us because if that system collapses then the state will fail which is a lie. They're not going to go from Hungary to foreign banks, they're everything else because they're normally living off citizens, only they're going to get a little less. If we have a government that will fight for its citizens, then they will make such laws that also banks earn, that they do not deal with losses and that citizens are not robbed, that citizens do not lose a roof over their heads, not a third apartment, not a fourth apartment, but the only ones who have and that they do not go into subsistence and that they are not in such slavery that if they sell that apartment, or if they give the bank, and for 10 years they have paid off the loan, they still have to find 50,000 euros somewhere because they have so much credit and I repeat, we consider it only statistical data. So, yes, what they used to borrow, who they were guilty of, what they didn't calculate. Well, this government promised to solve the problems. No one says that in such a short time, so many problems can be solved, but we're sinking. Someone once said we'd sink to the bottom of the sea, maybe 300 years from now we'd be an archaeological find and we'd be worth it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48190	Second replica, Honored Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48191	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. However, in your exposé and the attack on banks and the co-operation of banks and the government, I would just like to remind you, in the debate, that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia have some 160 billion savings in banks and the role of basic banks is in the world and in us in modern democratic market non-oliberal but regulated markets to help and finance, they move as the economy as well as personal consumption, but of course in terms of development, not in terms of the consumption in which we say that dead capital or bar is then created in Croatia not to invest in imports but in the preparation of exports. So the stability of banks in this regard is crucial for the very functions of banks and for the very saving of citizens. Therefore, when we are discussing this law, then we must discuss the basic things in which you supported it, which is that it is better than what we had, that protection is much better for citizens and informing citizens, but the role of banks in all of this is extremely important because citizens have contributions to their savings, and we would all like that and that's the goal and economic and monetary policy that possibly less is the interest on savings, and that more is the contribution to investing what in shares in the capital market, which is in entrepreneurship, which is what economic policy and wants, but it is the process. And as for banks, banks should also be taken into account, not because of the special relationship between the government and the banks, but also the role of the government, but also the CNB to protect the financial industry and to save citizens, but tomorrow, quality placements.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48192	The replica corresponds to a colleague, Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48193	No one here advocates the collapse of banks, that's what nobody said. However, if, as you yourself said, and before there was one data of 171 billion, it is now 160 billion savings and 126 billion loans have given these banks with this money that we're saving, those who have what to save and that's what the banks have earned. It is certainly necessary to know the function of the banks, to know what is in the function of the banks, but the state should also say what is the objective of the state to mediate between banks and citizens. What's she gonna do? Mr. Orban was very clear and gave very clear instructions. Mr. Orban didn't say I'm going to ruin all the banks operating in Hungary now. Our prime minister said which banks, which banks, quite incomprehensible, I didn't understand yesterday in my current class, and I had no right to ask him a question to say I don't understand what you're talking about. However,... understood all the productions that Hungary does sometimes are acceptable to me, sometimes they are not but they are seen to care for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which does not mean that none, Hungarian pardon. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And perhaps it would be good for Croatia to receive it, which does not mean that there is no desire, the intensity of the Croatian government to do so. However, the results I have just read indicate that the goal has not been achieved. Mr. Linic very often says what I mean is not complimenting not because of his birthday. I understand what he's saying every time he's talking. I don't agree with him, but I understand, and I think that when he works, he's a competent and professional person. We disagree on that in a way that, with our goals, we agree and I think he wants it well and I believe he believes that I want it well. However, the rest of the government one that needs to secure investments... Made. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48194	Thank you. Third replica and Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48195	Thank you, dear Vice President. Here's a colleague I'd like to look back on essentially part of your exposure when you're talking about this issue of state banks and so on. It seems to me that in our society indeed, and it seems to me that my impression of you is some basic misunderstanding as things stand. Some of the basic settings of the system in which we live are the same in Sweden, Denmark, Norway and the United Kingdom, America and so on. We can't change that we live in a capitalist system. So we can fight to make it a little smaller, a little more humane, or to move on to another side. However, when we talk about state banks and state-owned enterprises, we are only talking about the fact that the majority holding shares or business shares of the state. So, legally speaking legally, since I'm a lawyer, it's completely wrong to talk first row about ownership of banks. If I own 100% of the shares of a bank, that doesn't mean I own a bank in a legal sense. Because if I own a bank that would mean I own and everything that the bank has, so I could just walk into the bank and just take the money that's her property or use her vehicle or get into an apartment that's her property and settle there. I can't do that, it's a bank, it's not mine, no matter what I'm a 100% owner. I think that's a fundamental misunderstanding. When we talk about banks, many think that if you own a bank, you can use it that way. However, if, for example, the state holds a majority stake in the bank, it must not use the bank, so has a system where it has some ruling position for its own needs if it opposes being the best business logic of the bank. Therefore, the management of a bank chosen by the Supervisory Board must not obey orders from the congregation of a company if this harms the bank, regardless of what may be useful for the State or is useful for the citizens of the State. They are. If they did so, they would be exposed, responsible for damages and criminal responsibilities. [[Intruder Stazic: Thank you very much.]] In that sense, therefore, no matter who has some Thank you. [[Intruder Stazić: Fellow Pandek time.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48196	The replica matches a colleague, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48197	Dear fellow Pandek, without any irony, I thank you for this clarification for your citizenship to explain. But please, for an hour when you're explaining to your prime minister and telling ministers the difference, when we're talking about Colloquial private and state banks. In both, I agree with you, but the point is, now let's talk about being, not teaching each other who guards and how he keeps that money that he's not, means neither state nor private owner, or shareholder. How's he doing? That's what I said before, when Mr. Cacic said it was important whose INA is. Like it matters whose car it is, so let's get that one car. I think we're analyzing some things. It's a clean fight for neoliberal capitalism. You said one thing we can't change I don't know if I'm going to quote you correctly that we live in this capitalism. Maybe in this not, in such capitalism why don't we change. You think this is what we came for to be the top and that we should stick to it and there will never be any change. You don't even think about changing wild capitalism? So what capitalism are we in? Are we an orderly capitalist country? We're not an orderly capitalist country and you're afraid, fear, Marks was often a twisted mockery of those people who never read it, they couldn't interpret it. It was not applied by any socialist country. There they had fear, they had dictatorship, and they never applied Marxism. So, then, read a little of what was rejected without being read, so the word of the revolution will certainly come to pass between you and many others. People will wake up!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48198	The last replica and respected representative Kresimir Bubalo. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48199	In fact, counterpart Vuksic was contradictory in his presentation. First he says that the bank's business risk falls to the state, then you later said that the risk of business falls on the citizens. You said one thing and the other. In fact, the risk of bank operations is primarily at banks. There may be a situation like the Center of the Bank that the CNB has not controlled enough connections of certain companies with the bank and ownership stakes, so it falls to the state because it will pay off savings. Or as certain state public systems have run out of individual deposits. But also when we talk about banks, we don't have banks. We have a Croatian bank, etc. but we have a controller called the Croatian National Bank. And then we can't have a situation like the Center of the Bank that the state has to pay off the secured savings deposits. The ratio of deposits and credit mass is visible, so foreign banks are slowly withdrawing their deposits, and in fact Croatian citizens are lending exactly what banks decide. Because banks, foreign banks control our bloodstream. We are talking about consumers today, but they are placing loans in certain activities, and they are particularly avoiding agriculture lately, which is very important to us in Slavonia and Baranja. I am aware that banks assess the risk, the risk of business and therefore the interest depends. We will be able to bring restrictions on this law both for tightening interest and for regular effective interest. But those measures are too late. Because it's just today that the banking clock is going, and he's not standing and he just said there's not going to be a loan. The credit will always be, and there were during the war. It's only a matter of assessing the banking risk of these foreign banks in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48200	The replica matches Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48201	Dear colleague Bubalo, it was a lapus, if I told the state I don't remember that. Certainly not in the state, then I wouldn't be talking about sharing the risk. What you said was that if a bank goes down then something falls on the back of the state, but these are specific cases. The way our banks were saved on another occasion and how they were saved, at which prices we rescheduled them, for which we sold them 20 times less price than we invested money. The risk of day-to-day business, that's what I was talking about, is on the back of the citizens. They made exchange rates, they paid extra profits. Extra profit was coming out of citizens' pockets. The bank has made such contracts and still makes such contracts with which it cannot be damaged at any cost. The state should get involved in this, as it is now meddling with this law, so I say that this law is a step forward and will help citizens not to have such loan agreements that will be able to take away apartments even if they pay off two-and-a-half apartments. If you pay, take one apartment on loan and pay two and a half apartments, then it's certainly a risk only on your back.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48202	The word has now appeared on behalf of the proposer, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48203	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Here's one practical law we've taken great theories. But there's still something I want to make clear about the banking system so there's no doubt about it. The Croatian banking system is stable, capital quality, and if we compare it to the crisis in Europe and the enormous problems of many countries which have lost their business, I apologize, which the losses in business banks cover from the state budget show that there was no such thing. What's our problem is the economy. The economy where private capital strayed in its plasma, in its economic activities, strayed. And he's in trouble. The banking system is down by now. He's losing profits, why? Because of large reservations because credits are hard to charge. So, we don't have a problem with the banking system. What's the problem is the economic system. And that's why the government went through last year with unanimous support in this House in the Financial Business Act and pre-determined settlements. To try to solve the private capital that strayed and which gave neither production nor product, nor service, nor jobs. Now there's a problem for you to try to estimate that it can be done overnight. And then I remind you of the judges who think that this solution we've offered because you know the administrative procedure and the pre-profit settlement takes 61 days, the court proceedings in that section 59. So in 120 days we're trying to solve a person per person, a company per company. We fight for every job, 120. But the message of a judge and some judges is not what we want for 15-year bankruptcy. Yeah, those are messages. Therefore, you will allow the Government to make it very clear. We are trying to solve what is the problem in Croatia, and the problem in Croatia is an economy that did not create jobs, did not create production, did not create products, but went into real estate business. That's where we spent the money. Therefore, the banking system is stable. And this one's safe. As you can see, he followed the economy, followed the citizens. But the risks were where they were? The citizens and the risks were in the private sector. You can help citizens with some kind of protection, you can't help them directly. We're trying to make business. And we pour out blood money because we don't charge income from that economy, we don't charge. Why? We're trying to save jobs, we're trying to get them back in the process of production, we're trying to create a backbone again that I would say economically that movement is positive, not negative. Each of you has the right to criticise the government and say that in one day to do so. As you see going very hard, going very slowly. Yes, there is also a problem, you know at this point one of the problems of the government is 11 or 12 companies owned by the Croatian state in tourism. Big minuses, pay problems, now we don't see fate at all, and the basic need is to make a decision on privatisation. Try adding capital, raised stars, open an investment, open a crane, open a new job, a higher price for that hotel or overnight stay in that hotel. How, you'll be selling silver again, selling gold, where it's in Croatia at all to try and talk seriously about our problems. What do we want? Message from the Croatian Roads Union, so you are not crazy to rent roads, to concession roads. Well, we who are too many will be out of a job. And what is politics in Croatia? Well, there's nothing we can agree on, but the results are required in 24 hours. Bravo, bravo, let's just keep going. A great contribution is that as a society, we are trying to talk seriously about the problems that have accumulated. You know, I don't like you very much, I don't even get to read, I don't get to, but I like to talk about practice, and so now that I'm listening to these theoretical discussions, I wonder what that contribution is, what that contribution is. The story of neoliberalism about what it is, so this society decided on private capital in 1990, it decided on a market economy, we left social categories, I apologize to the socialist category, we left social property. I don't want state property. You have to tell me where this state property is so successful, where? Now we'll see, the whole of Europe is fighting what with state banks, what with banks where we simply lost enormous money, that's what Europeans say. We, for now, have quality, stability, security in these private banks. We have problems with the citizens and the economy. Yeah, we're trying to put that in some kind of relationship sort of order. We would like to open discussions with you, but not theoretically, specifically, to see. We are really interested in what part of ensuring that banks have their own interests. You know, if the banks estimate that the 3% interest is unacceptable, there won't be any credit, so whatever we think, whatever we're making them do, they won't be able to close the balances for 3%, obviously, and they have a responsibility and they have to keep an eye on their capital values. So it's just nice to stay in practice, in proposals that we'll be able to make tomorrow to really assess from these discussions whether we're going to go into extra protection, we will. What do we really want in this country? Because I have to say some of your wishes are hard to understand. No, a citizen must have property on his apartment, it's a message, property on his apartment. The fact that he can't pay the war is the problem of the state. Well, it can't be the state's problem. That's the bank's problem. It's not even the bank's problem. And these are the arguments that you show and which you speak. He must be the owner. And it can't be owned, it can't be if there's no income, if it doesn't have the simple security to pay off the loan and it can't be owned and these wishes can't be met, and it's not even a social category that it's going to have to solve. We're talking about wanting to take care of renting an apartment if you say yourself the private owner doesn't want two family members, he doesn't want, he doesn't want children in his own, and the state has to worry about it, so he wants to worry about it. Right away, we're helping the banking sector right away. Not the other way around, we want to put it into function on cheap rentals. Well, a little past two, three months we've managed to find interested citizens with no evil intentions, no malfeasances. But no matter what we do, we are thieves on the side of large capital, neoliberalists are not the debates that contribute to resolving the situation in the Republic of Croatia. So let's try to think a little differently, try to suggest solutions. The debate is in the first reading to see what it suggests in which direction we move on. After some of these now, I have to say that I don't know whether to go into further protection because I claim there won't be a loan, I say, there won't be. If the price of capital in banks is above 3% for 3% there will be no credit, so 2 and 2 are 4 and we want a stable banking system. And remember something else Croatia has its own bank, and this bank is called the Croatian Development Bank and it serves both credits in the economy and loans to local units, and it is a country that can lead policy through it and influence this policy on commercial banks.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48204	No, it's a line of lines. First respected representative Kresimir Bubalo. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48205	Thank you very much. Dear Ministers, the situation in the economy will certainly reflect on banks in the coming time. Therefore, you often mention bankruptcy judges and the duration of bankruptcy after 15 years, but the bankruptcy that can be over very quickly is which lasts 14 years is the bankruptcy of the city bank. And since the state is the greatest believer there, and we have discussed this on several occasions, it believes that the bankruptcy procedure should be completed after 14 years. Therefore, the bankruptcy judges are not always guilty of the length of a bankruptcy procedure, but I would also like to say that ownership of the Croatian Bank or the Post Office bank is insufficient for the needs of our exporters in particular, but a special niche which is insufficiently represented in the credit arrangements of the banks are farmers. I am aware that banks control our system and assess that after this reduction of incentives that the risk of our farmers' business is really great is we are aware of the situation in the country. Therefore, the situation must change now in terms of incentives, but also in terms of length of bankruptcy, such as the example of the city bank. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48206	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48207	You've touched me where it hurts. I was Deputy Prime Minister of the Coalition Government in 2000-2003. Five requests from a bankruptcy judge for a change in the city bank's bankruptcy manager. I finished my term in 2003, and now in 2013, it's still a process. Since the first day I've been looking here, I've come here, I've been asking for an end to bankruptcy, to move a bankruptcy judge. In that bankruptcy somewhere there's about 700 million kuna's worth of money withdrawn. You know how much bankruptcy costs? 330 million kuna. 330 million kuna. Only DAB is asking for 900 million, and he is the only believer to follow, nor will 50% of his claim be charged, but bankruptcy is not dropped. Why, you should ask the bankruptcy manager. All our demands, all our applications, all ours, you know, that's the problem. About this justice of judges you see this judge in Osijek refused two years as a believer, for two years he refused him. And there's no need to go on, and it could have ended the bankruptcy overnight and handed over the whole mass to DAB because it was known that he was the only one who had claims that could be partially charged. And the fourth and fifth payment order nothing, nothing. Do you know what the bankruptcy charge ended in 2012? Do you know? 2.5%. After open and completed bankruptcy in 2012 all creditors will charge 2.5%. Excellent protection of the credentials, judicial protection of the credentials. We pre-curricular when we write the most yet we have a chance to collect.... Yeah, it's the history of the bank.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48208	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48209	Dear Minister Linic, you mentioned 15-year bankruptcy proceedings. Here you are again telling Mr. Bubal that he touched you in a painful wound. This wound you mentioned the pain of all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is not implemented, actually the judicial system does not work. That's okay with you. Imagine when so many court proceedings are conducted with companies that are powerful when they lead so much, and what about the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. But there are sacred cows in Croatia and there are citizens of the second order. You said we'd suppressed the production, so here's the question, and you asked what we wanted. We want to get the production on its feet. You said give me a solution, I'm sorry, but for five minutes, you'd switch roles. The government gives solutions and implements solutions and you are there, and we are, therefore, the opposition is there to question those solutions of yours. We will give solutions when we are in a position to make those solutions, we are in action. Therefore, we expect from you because you had a program to heal the Croatian economy and that Croatian citizens will live better. That's the short-term plan of the 21st. And the government program given by the Prime Minister when he took an oath and today's state, it's heaven and earth, and you know it yourself. So we are looking for solutions, here we ask you how long the citizens of the Republic of Croatia will have to wait because watch out, we have been waiting for 23 years. Before the '90s, they said now we're gonna crash this system, wait. I am a man who is 50 and a few years old, who lives in the waiting room, and all citizens will live and all others in the Republic of Croatia. Citizens are tired of waiting, the government's depression in Croatia precisely because there is no light at the end of the tunnel. Nobody's accusing anyone here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48210	Thank you. Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48211	Look, I'm one of those guys who said that a good part of the problem in eight years doesn't think we're gonna solve it. I even spoke till I was 10 years old. You know if someone created a million 300 thousand pensioners and led to the fact that we don't have a million and 400 thousand employees to solve it in the next 10 years we won't. Therefore, all those who promise something else and expect something else are inconclusive people who seem to be doing a little bit of work for me. Therefore, I am also part of that coalition, programme 21. I've been very clear forever, I don't know how to lie in numbers, I don't know. And you know, when we talk about whether we want to change then I ask you... is a company with 1500 employees, the Dalekvod is a company with about 3 billion liabilities, an enormous obligation. And imagine in a short 60-day procedure 91% of creditors agreed to save Dalekovod, remove the old ownership structure, come a new one, HBOR gives guarantees for working in Iraq, Norway, Sweden, I don't know where, and we didn't finish the job. We didn't finish the job. How guilty is the government? However, we now have the decision of Judge Dalekovod in bankruptcy, 1500 people on the street and real estate sale. It's the judge's decision. Did the government prepare the law, did we here in the Parliament model, did we implement it? We did. Where's the efficiency? Simply the sixth Dalekvod competition lost for the reason it's still in the pre-fashion deal. There are two new jobs ahead of us, in Albania, and we have jobs ahead of us to get, I think in Ukraine. Well, I don't know what to say, but I don't know. As far as the government is concerned, answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48212	Thank you. Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48213	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister, here's what you've done. You've made me think a little bit about the length of the bankruptcy process. I know the judiciary can't be limited, but some reasonable time limit for bankruptcy could be prescribed or predicted, or we could talk about that too. But what I actually did at first picked up the replica board was what you said. It started with state property, capitalism, socialism, etc. so you said that tourist facilities with difficulties in business and that the state wanted to get rid of them so that they might develop further in private hands, we would see cranes etc. above them. But what about those facilities, companies that are gold coke in this country, and that is those who positively and positively do business well, such as Croatia's insurance, such as the Croatian Post Bank. Do we have to sell them, too, for the sake of a successful and hasty update of our commitments, because of credits that are on our credits that someone has raised, I'm not going to tell anyone that I'm not insulting either side of them? And secondly, it is legitimate that every man when you have already spoken of apartments or houses, that it is legitimate for every man to strive to have his own corner, his home, as you do. I believe that, you're not a tenant, you're not a tenant. I've got one of those after all, so I wouldn't just mention you here. Thus, in how and how to get to him it is indeed the right of every man to think about it. Well, the bird has a nest, his nest, except for the coward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48214	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48215	Let's try and answer it very simply then. For you, Croatia's insurance is enough to be a small insurance company for the Croatian market. You're satisfied with that. Well, I don't mind, so be it. And we became part of Europe. Yeah, if we're going to talk about someone getting 10 million euros to destroy INA, then don't ask me, ask whoever did it. Therefore, Croatia's insurance or will grow into insurance that will be the strongest insurance in the region and we will try to find such a owner. It takes capital, and it's basic without capital it can't exist. If he's taking credit, he can't have it, because credit costs and then he becomes bank slaves. So he needs capital. Every kuna of capital you know well in the budget where we invest – in HBOR. There we want to address the problem of agriculture and the problem of tourism and some other problems especially exports. In a year you know what I do most, I write off loans in HBOR given to tourists, I apologize, given to farmers, given to individuals, we write off, we write off. That's why we have less and less money for new funding. And that's why we need to push more and more capital into that development bank right now, that's where we decide. That's where the government sits. There we sit 7 of us on the board of directors and carry a burden where we decide to give money. That's what you try to figure out. We won't invest in Croats.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48216	Thank you. Ante Kulusic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48217	Mr. Minister, you said one sentence, I won't talk about banks because in your debate you touched some other things and you said you liked to talk about the practice that hotels should be raised stars in order to be sold, but now I'm going to talk about Croatia because Croatia's insurance is a company that has 100 million gross profits per year. In Croatia, 12 small branches and 400 million kuna premiums were attached to the medium branches were placed on the market 400 million premiums I guarantee you that this year Croatia will lose at least 100 million kuna premiums on these branches, and we are going to sell Croatia insurance to weaken. Now I don't know how. Croatia's insurance should not raise loans because it has 100 million gross profits and has Croatia's insurance of more than 30% of the policies at the level of the Croatian insurance market. And then you say we're saying a lot of things here, and we're not going to suggest how we move on. What's it worth to suggest how we move on when we won't tell the Croatian people the truth. The Croatian people need to be told the truth about every law and about this law and about Croatia insurance and about HPB and everything and about Lex Perkovic and all of us who do it human is that we are wrong. That is how the prime minister of the Croatian government, regardless of what the towers say, on the terrace outside and your fellow SDP MPs say the prime minister has hastened, made a mistake but will not admit his mistake. We're all flesh and blood people that we do and sin. Only big ones can admit a mistake and then it will be better for all of us and the Croatian people. Thank you, Lippa.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48218	Replication response, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48219	... If we just don't make mistakes, admit mistakes, we'll be better off. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He won't, he won't. It just won't, you know. We feed agriculture, we farm too little land, we're completely uncompetitive. We gave money to social problems in the country, and we kept doing it since 1990 and during the term of office of the former coalition government until 2012 and spent money. I'm not gonna add it up. There's your deficits. If we're going to talk about the railroad, we don't have railroads, 60-year-old locomotives, cars are no longer for traffic at all. Yeah, we want to talk about ports, irrationally invested, in built, lost traffic? We want to talk about the planes that were purchased, the taxpayers paid for them. Yeah, it's a market economy. Are we gonna talk about all this? About Croatian forests that must have parafiscal charges to shut them down to a positive zero? That's what we've been doing for 23 years. For 23 years, we simply created a socialist economy that lived on tax revenues. You gentlemen must be all witnesses. You think that can change overnight? Oh, he can't. So, less politicizing and more reality. And that's something to tell the citizens that needs to be changed. These are reforms we refuse to change, you know we refuse. You will be against privatization of freight transport that is not at all operational, which has no cargo, which simply has no locomotives or carriages. You're going to tell me about Croatia's insurance? Triglav's four times our size. I'll take it from 2000. Croatia lost one market, another market, the third one comes from outside. Is that Croatie's tomorrow? Possibly, but not for this government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48220	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48221	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, before I replicate you when you talk about all the problems of the Croatian state, I would like to remind you that during those 23 years of the Croatian State, for 8 years, Croatia was practically at war or until the peaceful reintegration of the Croatian Danube and in the remaining 15 years, HDZ was in power for 9 years, and for 6 years you were one of the most important people in Croatian governments, so when you perform in this way and a little care should be taken. And I wanted to replicate to you in the rental section that you've mentioned so many times today. I quite follow what the Ministry of Construction and Minister is doing on several occasions is talking about presenting to the Croatian public a model of renting apartments as compensation for standing up for the purchase of apartments in the Republic of Croatia and that this will be a solution for unsold apartments. I haven't seen that model because it hasn't been built yet, so I can't even comment on it, but I can comment on the fact that you just said that I have some experience because we rented some apartments. Yes, we leased apartments owned by the state in Sopnica Jelkovac and about 78 or 79 apartments that she talks about for herself and there are no big options, some specific solutions, but simply the state she rented as the owner. The second question is, when you're talking about 40,000 unsold apartments that don't have that many safe, when you're talking about other people's apartments that the state should use and then lease and rent interested tenants. When this model is made up, when at the positions of the Ministry of Construction, i.e. the Agency for Real Estates, we see how much money will be made on the side of the income and how much will be distributed on the side of the expenditure then we will be able to talk about something more quality about this rental model. Because you know what? You and I were never the tenants. I'll just finish up, Madam Vice President, when you enter an empty apartment, the tenant has a huge cost of the apartment's equipment, especially when you invest in other people's property. [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] That's something to take care of.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48222	Thank you. And a reply to the replica, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48223	We say there's a new model going and it's going to go. He's part of the banker and he's against it. Their right, those are their apartments. But to our satisfaction, serious bankers are in favour and will go openly in cooperation with the Croatian State. What we need to make up for to the banks is the price of the capital of these apartments. Price of interest capital. They don't ask the value, they don't ask for the value. Costing the state won't be for the simple reason because we're passing it on to those who are called the renters. And they'll pay the rent. Our goal is to make it an acceptable rental and not to blackmail whether there will be children inside or not. And as for investment in the apartment, in the furniture, it's something that's positive again when we talk about total demand and consumption. When we talk about the need for some of the apartments that are finished by 80, 90% should be completed, so that's the business of the owner, whether banks or construction companies. Therefore, by the state or kuna in such models because we only offer to be the one standing between the bank and the citizen of the tenant. And there are all your answers. The models we're going to offer because we think it's far more appropriate for citizens today's income, today's citizens' standard. And that's where we're actually going to give our efforts, we've got people, we've got capacities, and we can cover our risks with banks. If someone doesn't pay in time or if they have trouble paying the rent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48224	We're continuing the debate. Comrade Drazen Djurović, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48225	Well, thank you, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy and MPs and MPs. So here it is well endured this long and then a man hears anything interesting learns that there are banking monsters, hears that the war in Croatia lasted for 8 years, it is extended as years slowly flowed, most interesting things can be learned and some new elements about neoliberal capitalism that have not been heard of so far. I am not a bank supporter, but I believe that banks are neither the cause of the economic crisis nor recession nor banks are the key and the response to the recession in which the fifth quarter is located, i.e. the total failure of the Croatian economy and the time before the recession. I think the fundamental question that we are constantly losing focus when we return to the economy and tie it to banks is the fact that that substrate that is created in Croatia is actually insufficient in relation to what we want to spend from that substrate. And that this total production substrategic of this country which is one, and we spend two or three or those of the other one or two of us all in the entire chain of government through units of local self-government to citizens and to our children. If you want all of us in those surplus standards that we want to meet and who we're used to simply that money and that means and that life needs I meet simply through borrowing in all possible forms. I am indeed on the trail of what Minister Linic sets as a thesis, but it is not the government's thesis, it is simply not the government's policy. I'm sorry he didn't, but he didn't. It is, however, well-recognized by your individual attitude and these are lifestyle or maybe thinking settings but which simply is not government policy or is not recognised through government policy and the work of all ministries can you implement financial discipline whatever you want and financial discipline is good but it is not an answer, it is not. And you now if you go to any other resort in any other segment of this consumption if you want both state spending and consumption at lower levels then it's not the economic direction that will lead us to that point where we'll finally find ourselves in a situation that eventually of what we create units one spend 50% more annually. So I spend one and a half, not two or three and a half, and then we keep multiplying borrowing at all these levels. Now, when it comes to banks and the banking sector, so we're like a club, Mr. Grubisic spoke for because it's good that in some aspects of interest, deadlines, current accounts, so these changes that are being made o.k. I really don't think we have any particular objections to these changes. You also had at one stage the idea of pushing citizens to reduce the current account minuses in one macro account, that would mean reducing their debt by a lot of billions of kunas, but the objective question is whether citizens have these several billion kunas to add to them, and probably not because they could find them very hard to find at this point, the moment of recession. But I would also ask you not to forget what you wanted, and if there is a possible time for your mandate to take Croatia out of recession so that we finally move towards the plus, then further triggering this limitation of duties, let's say by current accounts, possibly at the height of one salary. But I think it was okay. The idea, however, at this point in time when we all reach the bottom and the citizens reach the bottom simply think that most citizens have no more room for additional debt to some loans of a thousand, two months per year, simply most citizens will have a hard time or will not be able to handle it. When it comes to the average interest rate indicated here by the CNB at least once a year, so in the annual report on the work of the CNB, they provide me with data on the average annual rate for housing loans, it was moving about 5.5% approximately as much as it says here 5.37% according to Eurostat data, I think that the CNB slightly lower rate in the annual report amounted to that of the Croatian Parliament. Kreso mentioned that Croatian farmers and programmes in Croatian agriculture are very difficult to find loans. You said that HBOR writes off a whole series of failed agricultural loans every day, the question is how are they given? Who's responsible for how they were given? What were those collaterals I mentioned again and what... in giving these loans? I spoke to a agricultural producer who has a planned investment of 6 million kuna and can't reach HBOR funds and in IPARD, so IPARD would have been returned for 2.5 million kuna from that investment in cattle farms in 150 heifers, male cows, etc. However, he cannot find among the large banks anyone who would follow him and in Croatia the only one who with about 8.5.9% will lend him and he is willing to endure it through a few years of account that he will repay that investment. So what Kreso said HBOR only has certain programs but our agricultural producers and in those programs where funds are being recovered through IPARD there are plenty of them can't find any business banks to lend them. However, to be granted funds with IPARD, they had some business plan and some kind of closed business investment. And simply when you come to these large banks of type PBZ, ZABA is not interested in a simple agriculture programme, and HBOR is very far and quite inaccessible to them. I also mentioned, so I'm going to take a chance on a little bit of a long-term guarantee issue. I don't think that this issue should be resolved now, either, that this is a central issue of the banking sector's problem, but it is one of the problems where citizens find themselves in a very unfavourable position. If you are interested in searching and contacting the CNB or request some reports on the positions of collateral abroad, so in Western Europe, in different countries, and you will see that these guarantees are, in general, not the instrument of insurance and are not in the position of collateral as it has been resolved with us, and as we have more or less taken over from Yugoslavia, we have just moved further into this existing system. So the debtor when he doesn't pay his loan he's there, his revenues are there, the subject of the loan itself is there, his property is there and none of it is really interested in the bank but it reaches for some, for example if I am obliged to sign for a car guarantee and suddenly it's that person and her incomes are the first to hit the bank. It's completely illogical. So the bank took on such a comfortable and comfortable position, and especially many such cases were when it came to car loans where the mass of people were paying someone else their car credit, and this first one was still driving that car, and there was no need for it. So even at this point, and that's also true, so either one of us can generally not get a single residential loan and if he's full-time employed and has a permanent contract he can't win and secure a mortgage of 1:1,2 or 1,3 or 1,4, he can't get a housing loan if there's no guarantee there with all the insurance instruments yet. And I think it's unfair and that this instrument of insurance could actually be put under control and significantly limited. Here and finally, the banks themselves, as we can and should actually put more under control, and there is a particularly critical role of the CNB, and they have been completely failed in the past. Otherwise, as for those of the Consumer Credit Act, these changes are fine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48226	Replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48227	Thank you. I don't want to be from the same party, but I don't want this replica to turn out to be some kind of party replica. At one point you said that the HBOR is far away from our farmers even though the minister said that it daily write off the debts and the dues that are tied to our farmers. Furthermore, the minister said that the state fed farmers, so it seems to me that in that sense he said what he did not, I would not quite agree with it, but to you the replica therefore. In our programme we have been very often and here in the Parliament we have pointed out so since there is already one state bank, it is the Croatian Post Bank, to establish an Agrobank of the Republic of Croatia that would be much closer and specialize in the lending of farmers. However, never here in our Parliament, nor the Government in 2003-2011, did they even think of such a thing, and it might be good to exist because there are agrobanks in both France and other Western European countries. That's what I saw on the banks, on the banks' buildings just passing through Strasbourg, in Brussels, is what the agrobank says. So there is an institution, a banking institution specialising in the lending of agricultural and agricultural goods markets that does not exist in Croatia unfortunately.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48228	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48229	Yes, I agree with you. We and the County Bank, which lay at some stage in rather vague circumstances, which was rather crediting agriculture to a large extent. In part, Glumina Banka also worked part of Požeška Banka until it was sold to Podravska Banka, and these banks were in fact quite active in the Slavonia area and were focused on lending, but unfortunately they did not work. Let's say the damage here is if you were in a position of 50 million kuna, you'd probably go to some kind of Agrobank rather than go to the center of the bank, but what you're going to do is, it's a question of what kind of position a man is in at some point, and then he's making certain political decisions. The most important thing is that these political decisions are not motivated by those types of 10 million kuna models, but that they are really simple political decisions that are made so they turn out wrong and my God, life goes on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48230	Branko Bacic, the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48231	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister with his associates. So here during the day I have already tried several replicas to say what I will now sublime in my presentation in a certain way, which is that I understand your wish, so I would also say the need to further protect Croatian consumers from their creditors in a contractual relationship in... with banks, but also with other believers and that your intention is acceptable to me, and I am welcome in that sense and I support it. But what I've been probleming about all morning is your desire to protect consumers, i.e. users of residential loans, and this way from raising interest rates by banks. On behalf of the club, Mrs. Dalic spoke and problemed this solution, and I would now add nothing more than to agree with its problems because I think that the key to establishing the average rate is fully in the hands of the banks, and that there are many governments and you as minister will not be able to keep under control if the banks are slowly and continuously, permanently within the frameworks that you will prescribe, slowly raise interest rates, and then the average interest rate in Croatia will be raised. What I was about to say, what I think the government is doing bad and what I've been saying all morning, so I agree with this proposal in part to try to limit and further protect consumers, but I don't think the government is doing what it has to do in terms of proactive efforts to solve the problem and that number of unsold apartments. You say 40,000, I say there are some fewer of them, but so to solve this problem of unsold apartments that burden both banks and investors in a certain way dead capital and contributes nothing to the economic development of Croatia, and on the other hand clearly there is no benefit in the budget because these apartments are not sold and the state does not charge value added tax. I said that the government should have continued with what it is now doing with one of the models or encouraged those models to help sell this large unsold residential fund in the Republic of Croatia. And I said, and I'm going to repeat that so far the best model that in just a few weeks has had a remarkable success because over 2250 apartments sold over the past few weeks have been a model with which the government with smaller money could sell a lot more apartments. That this model is justified also by the fact that according to this model, I said in a short time 2,500 apartments whose average price is not that of Mr. Minister you've been talking about all morning about 2,000 or 2,500 euros per metre square but 1384 euros is the average price of a square metre in that model on one hand. On the other hand, the beneficiary of the apartment credit is on average 31-year-old Croatian citizens and the size of the apartment is about 62 square metres. So it's all been read that it's not such a high price that the citizens used in this model, that they bought it as a rule for young people who were dealing with the housing issue this way, that it's a two-room or three-room apartment rule. And I think we continued this model to be where and where today, so that we could talk about where and where fewer unsold apartments in the Republic of Croatia. At the same time instead of continuing the government on the HNS proposal because it was also the HNS model at the time of your first coalition government doing one modified model POS plus which, as I said, had experienced an even worse debacle than the basic POS was sold I say only 5 apartments in the past 4 or 5 months. And additionally, what I disagree with, and what I elaborated at the same time this morning instead of the government continuing to promote housing savings, because I think it's precisely at these times when high interest rates on housing loans are that housing savings and the ability to place loans through housing savings are a good solution, you have reduced the state's incentive to live savings by your bill, which has practically discouraged citizens from saving and thus resolving the housing issue and buying apartments. It is true that there was a stalemate, there was a stalemate in the placement of housing loans through housing savings, but it was happening in all countries of the world, especially in Central European countries, whenever the cheap loans provided by commercial banks are. Whenever commercial banks give cheap loans, as was the case in 2007, 2008, even the ninth, while cheap loans for the sale of apartments were then in Croatia, and throughout Central Europe the number of apartments sold through residential savings banks competed so often with housing savings that are owned by them. Now that interest on housing savings has been growing, the right time for the government to take a reverse step, which is to increase the grant for housing savings to allow citizens to buy apartments through housing savings, where interest is reached somewhere around 3.90%, and that seems to me to be much more favourable than what we are saying here today, which is that the average interest rate on housing loans in the Republic of Croatia is about 5.37%. So, these two models that were extremely successful, which allowed very low interest in relation to the average interest in the Republic of Croatia, this government abolished one, reduced subsidies, dimmed citizens to continue saving in housing savings and was then clearly forced by these measures that limit banks, I agree with you in determining the interest rate clearly that the Government was then forced to take such steps. So I believe that there was wherever and where better to be, which I did when adopting the state budget and suggested, it would be far better if instead of 238 million kunas that you provided, and that's not small money, it's a very large amount of money we provided at the position of the encouraged housing, which, as I said, has experienced a complete debacle that you went into those models that could really encourage citizens to go into the project of buying an apartment. I agree with you that the situation in Croatia is very difficult, that the prices of apartments are still expensive, that the set of square meters in the Republic of Croatia is expensive, and that one war is about 80 to 90% of the average salary in the Republic of Croatia. But from the experience we have on the right model, we see that there are still wishes and opportunities for the citizens of the Republic of Croatia to buy, to solve the housing issue by buying the apartment, not by renting it. I also speak from my own experience because I know that in 2010, we proposed the same model proposed by this government and that this model was absolutely not affected, at a time when the purchasing power of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia was certainly better than it was today after five or six years of crisis in the Republic of Croatia. So, this law in a certain way is a palitative solution that, in which the Government in a certain way and forced itself to protect the consumers of its own state, but it seems to me that it has failed in this proactive policy in which it should have provided for such models that would, in the first place, allow young Croatian families and citizens to decide through favourable housing loans which, in a certain way and with its own guarantee of the Republic of Croatia, the Government and stands by them, in order that those between the rentals and the purchase of their own property, purchases of their own apartment would nevertheless decide on this model, because as long as this lease is low, it still has to be marketable, and I think that between that level of renting apartments and wars that would be one of these models that I mentioned earlier, however, with the additional effort they would have to buy the apartment and thus that investment that must be invested in that apartment when they invest when they were in foreigning in the issue, however, this particular, that they would have been necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48232	Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48233	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. You keep mentioning to your colleague Bačić and saying that this government has abolished the model that you have introduced as minister. It is clear that in two years some 2,000 apartments have benefited, or customers have used the funds provided in the budget. However, you are also in a certain way when we talk about consumers, lending and consumer protection, giving citizens the opportunity to subsidize for 4 years, and after that they are back on the market and it is questionable how and how their interest rate will grow and be at that moment. Therefore, all these solutions that this government gives with POS plus, with the lease, are essentially solutions and with POS, of course, are solutions which in continuity clearly define the future cost for a citizen who takes up a housing loan. And on the other hand, even through POS, you in the budget really don't need to subsidize and give to ensure that these funds go in a different direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48234	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48235	My colleague Gjurkovic, everything you told me, was also known by the household credit users when they entered the project. If they were afraid or if they didn't think the project was good, they'd be waiting for something they didn't know at first, they wouldn't be involved in the project. So, that the project was good, that it was motivated by the best telling them that not in two years but in just a few weeks as long as it lasted in those two years, he won such a success. I am not advocating this model because we proposed it, but I think it is encouraging enough to allow those young Croatian families who can buy the apartment according to the cheapest model. And I think that model in the first four years when the apartment is equipped, when the most expensive is to get to the apartment of the state gives them a strong incentive to continue. And then I clear after four years that he'll stay on the market, but then my God, here's this law can help in that sense. But I'm saying we should encourage them to go into the apartment shopping this restriction means very little to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48236	We're continuing the debate. My colleague Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48237	I would like to thank the esteemed vice president of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. Here, in the first place, I must commend the Commissioner's intensification to introduce the additional regulation that is necessary in this area. A large number of citizens have come into the situation, so their credit rates have grown significantly and their loan return is a significant threat to existence. So, when we talk about this topic, it is, of course, worth considering from two angles, the side of the credentials most often banks and consumers' corners most often citizens. The social role of banks is of course very important, but they also enjoy important protection. That protection doesn't always have to be prescribed by law, but I'd say it's almost self-evident. The Croatian state has already saved the banking system for taxpayers and a certain catastrophic situation that would threaten the collapse of the system is certain that the state could and would therefore have to enter the rescue. Maybe the bankers won't agree with me, but such a relatively pleasant position is still better than other business entities, for example. Some juice producer also follows the fact that banks have so far earned generous profits in Croatia and that is relatively higher than in the home countries of banks that have daughters in Croatia. The government, of course, on the other hand, has the responsibility to ensure that the banking system works and has the responsibility to ensure that citizens do not come into a situation where they are threatened by this basic existence. This is what we can see, however, because the risks associated with loans to the currency clause have been achieved or due to the rise in interest rates. Therefore, this law is a necessity as well as the introduction of retroactiveness in certain provisions. In this area, we agree, there is a sensitive problem created in previous years and clearly that the functioning of the law must be focused on the causes that are in the past. Here, although I support this law and most of the law's solutions, I would like to point out some of my additional suggestions. Personally, in this problem, I would try to protect even more and more the weaker contracting parties, of course, if that is realistically possible. In these days, some general uncertainty does not come to the minds of most citizens, therefore, of taking credit for any consumption, or of possibly investing in some kind of entrepreneurial activity. However, many will take loans, regardless of those conditions written in the fine text and regardless of the agreed interest rate, due to the simple state of emergency. You are a significantly weaker side and the duty of the state is to protect them. In what way? It's actually perhaps the hardest question. For example, in the case of a contract for the construction of labour prices, it can only be increased if there is an increase in the price of the elements on which the price of works is therefore formed. This can only be done if the price should therefore be increased by more than 2%. So very restrictive. An additional contractor can therefore require only a difference in the price that exceeds 2% Here I see the social interest that exists in standardising the contract on construction where the client is protected, the consumer thinks that there is a credit contract especially if it refers to a housing credit agreement. I therefore believe that it would be justified to introduce a similar provision here that the interest rate can be increased only if the value of the money is changed, so that the change is linked exclusively to the inflation rate. For housing loans, it would even consider allowing an increase in interest rates only if the inflation rate exceeds a certain percentage rather than earlier. Furthermore, I welcome the restriction of effective interest rates. But here's my opinion is that the highest amount of that rate now calculated according to the bill is 11%, so that rate now stands at 11% I think that height is simply too high. I really don't know who would if he wasn't quite in a state of emergency or if he wasn't quite unaccountable at 11%. As far as I'm concerned, I would declare even such a high interest rate when we talk about contractual relations green and illicit, I'm not, of course, talking about tight interest that has a certain penalty role. Such an interest rate is, in my opinion, to tear away the skin of those who are in extreme need precisely shamelessly exploiting their difficult situation or exploiting the situation of those who are unable to understand what it means to take credit at such a price because they are simply unreasonable. Therefore, I would consider further reducing the effective interest rate, of course, it is true that in the efforts of regulation there would have to be a synergy of the executive and monetary authorities in order to make the price of money that is the condition of any price reduction... in the economy in order to reduce and some of the solutions that would be introduced into this law depend on it but that goes into the frameworks of this law. As for the protection of consumers from the risk of the currency clause, there is also an important question when we talk about loans given by the foreign exchange clause in Swiss francs. This is the question of whether the banks are also in Swiss francs, if not, if the banks have taken their kuna funds from citizens and who are tied to the euro are paved by the foreign exchange clause in another currency and then this results in the acquisition of property benefit which is obviously disproportionate to the amount of money they have given I consider such property benefit to be limited. For example. that the contribution per specific loan must not exceed, e.g. 20% in the annual period. Of course, the same principle should be applied in a different direction. In order to maybe explain it more plasticly, what it seems to me is what this is about, for example. I can also be a lender if I borrow the kunas I have to someone else, and if I hadn't agreed on a currency clause and he had to pay me back by contract a day of money from 20 to 30% of the year-on-year contributions, I would have committed the crime referred to in Article 233. Penalty law, and a contract would be worthless. But if he contracts a currency clause, he doesn't do anything to anyone. So contracts with a currency clause if there are significant currency jumps as was the case with Swiss, and I've given funds that are not tied to Swiss but, for example, with euro, the currency clause becomes a sort of... kill permit, a magic wand to which something that would otherwise be a crime becomes perfectly allowed. I personally think that such a situation is not good and I think everyone should try to find certain solutions. Here I hope that my remarks will be considered and I would further point out that the proposed legal text is not only a major change in cosmetics. And this is how the proposed law to adopt in this form will significantly improve the position of citizens, leave more money in their pockets or reduce their duty. It's a real real real change and this law needs to be supported anyway. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48238	Thank you. He's a colleague of Pejo Grbin's. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48239	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'm going to join my colleague Pandek, and I'm going to point out in the beginning that this law is a major step towards protecting citizens and especially their financial interests. What's a fact is that the state cannot intervene in individual contracts, the state cannot enter into each individual contract and protect in it the often unfavourable position of our citizens who took credit because they needed it or because they wanted to improve their status in some way. But what the state can do is what the state has to do especially if it wants to be truly social and indeed social democratic to regulate the situation on the market. To regulate the situation on the market in such a way that it strictly regulates under which conditions creditors can lend their loans, to set clear rules that will very much protect the side that is weaker in such contracts, and we all understand that in such contracts, the bank that is strong is the one that has money, and the citizen whose money should be the weak side. That's exactly what I see not only the right but also the obligation of the state to negotiate a maximum interest rate for certain loans. I don't see anything wrong with that. I don't see any investment in the freedom of bargaining, but I see the protection of the weaker parties in the contract, and that's the side that needs to be protected. Furthermore, what I particularly welcome, which is the restriction of variable interest rates, the introduction of clear rules that will be known at the moment of the contract, and not that we have a situation like that so far that whoever credited the loan during the duration of the loan for no reason, without cause because he wants to, can change the interest to more. I do not know that the bank is very often in these credits with a variable interest rate, and even when the course was repaired to their advantage, it was going in the direction of reducing the interest rate, although it is known that the reference interest rates were falling those variable for our citizens were growing. The minister has asked a few questions here, I've expressed my position to one another, and that's a question of whether the state can regulate such relationships, which I think it can. The second question to be asked is the question of retroactivity. The question of whether this law allows the State to enter into locked credit agreements and whether the State may regulate those relations in which the citizens have entered, or also the banks. I think the state has to intervene, too. What we've been saying is this regulation of variable interest rates, unfortunately, we're acting profuturo. If that existed in 2006, 2007, in 2008, a large part of the problems our citizens today have, in particular, with loans in Swiss francs would not exist. Not all problems would be removed, but a large part would be removed. And precisely because the country is 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. Missed to react, we have the full right to determine the retroactive application of certain provisions of this Act in such a way that it covers those contracts where the exchange rate was agreed when the currency clause was so increased that it exceeded 20%. Although I would ask the Honorable Mr. Minister as a representative of the motion to consider whether this percentage can be reduced even a little bit to come to say 15% and 15% is a nice profit for the banks these 20% is a big step for our citizens who have entered those loans and as colleagues from the opposition have said, often not knowing all the parameters that existed at that moment. It is therefore our right not only but also our obligation to our citizens to determine that certain provisions of this law apply retroactively in a way that the interest rate in these loans where the value of the exchange rate has increased back to the one that was at the time of the contract. And we'll all remember that at that time the banks had huge posters, huge ads in the newspaper where they offered interest rates that were often below 4% on loans, today such interest on loans is no longer available. And lastly, this is a very important law, one of the more important ones that we have proposed in this term, and I'm sure we will bring. He regulates the situation on the market, protects the weaker side, protects the citizens. I hope that we will have opportunities through some other laws, for example through the Executive Law, to further improve the situation of those of our citizens who, because of over-indebtedness, have come into a situation to lose the properties they live in. But aside from that, this is a big step that needs to be supported and I'm sure it will at least improve our citizens' situation a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48240	Thank you very much. There is no colleague of Damir Cain, so he loses the right to debate on this point. And colleague Zdravko Ronko, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48241	Thank you very much. There are no more colleagues, Djurovic, who said he learned a lot behind the eight hours. Thank God we've heard so much. Personally, I don't even know what to add to the special anymore, so I'm gonna try to be brief. So listening to these almost eight hours of debate on this point, I kind of remember with the memory of some time when you built a house or bought an apartment on loan and then paid it for a couple of boxes of cigarettes. Now, that's a set-up. But there's also bitterness when you remember how the banks were rescheduled by taxpayers' money and then sold by the Buddha why we sold the Buddha how. And then we wondered what happened, because there they were, no one limiting them anywhere or trying to limit them. And we won, we had on Croatian soil an eldorado and of course these foreigners and these banks were grabbing how they got, how much they got and how much they could. And of course here and right now there's about three hundred thousand Croats out there to say it in black and how much more black is written, we'll just, we'll just have a chance to see it. And of course citizens, someone accused them of not thinking for themselves, of signing what they were, of what they were being set up, etc., etc. But the fact that they in their torment, in the evil they were in, in the crisis, in fear, in fear, however you wish, entered into this debt slavery. And of course they had no choice. I wouldn't say right now let's look for the guilty because there's not much luck from that. I'd just say that if I didn't repeat what the predecessors said, so then I didn't have the space left, I'd just say, we're not going to look for the culprit, let's go, we're here to find or better say to support the solution we've been offered here. And that's why I'd be appealing in some way, because they've seen it now and the banks, and that's why they've agreed to the negotiations even though the Ministry of Finance has put a lot of work into it, here's six months, so a lot of time has been invested to sort of break them because they're still trying to resist as much as possible. Here is how I appeal and I call on these efforts to support these efforts by the Ministry of Finance and our Government to bring the banks down into these real, real frameworks. To protect citizens from growth and interest, and from the burdens of others and margins and fees and exchange rates, to limit interest rates and what was involved in overcoming the minuses. And of course I won't be longer, I'd just say that this one, as they like to be called the banking industry, so that this banking industry like the tobacco industry, too, should make a firm commitment that on its product like the tobacco industry, let's caricate the old one, write, write, "Smoking kills, smoking damages both your child and his future." So there's paraphras one on the subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48242	Thank you very much. Minister Slavko Linic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48243	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, thank you very much for the debate, I would also like to say significant support for amendments and additions to the Consumer Loans Act, and we believe that, within a very short time, we will come with the final text of the law because we see greater dilemmas about the provisions of this law and there is no. What can be based on this debate and taken as a commitment, to really follow whether, in subsequent changes, to further strengthen the relationship in the part of consumer protection regarding bank contracts, and especially in the part relating to additional insurance, because simply too much insurance for the risk of banks is obviously a burden for many citizens. Understand that the basic problem is always how much we'll limit bank placements and bank loans then. We re-evaluate that we should enable everyone to acquire assets and loans if possible. What I want to add, however, at the end of all these discussions, is to try to make it very clear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia particularly insists on the discipline of paying taxes, the regularity of paying taxes, the competitiveness of the loyal and in essence the removal of all unfair phenomena in the transport of goods and services. So, when we talk about credits and credits, we can say that it is whether or not some kind of goods and that unfair games unfortunately exist because every restriction, every problem of a bank's decision not to grant a loan is the reason that many people appear with unwitting offers and try to act both on the Croatian and non-Croatian markets. What is, we have further strengthened both the rules and certain government regulations of supervision so-called. housing savings are just to prevent individuals who appear through these kinds of funding of citizens, and in fact, also interest in the interest of the notes, and not to say that many of them have the intention of illegally acquiring their property. All that is not in accordance with the existing law, the existing rules are daily tried to stop and prevent the operation on Croatian soil. Here we often mention tax administration, illegal transport of goods and services thanks to this Parliament which has accepted that the surplus employees, given the abolition of customs crossings towards Western Europe, have turned into special teams for fighting, for charging and excise duties and for preventing abuses in illegal business and traffic. So the answer is very clear, we have fully trained people, but we are working on their additional training. All of these are people who were very good at defending our borders from illegal traffic and entry or exit of goods and services until yesterday. What's more valuable is that these people also have a uniform unlike a tax administration that hasn't been uniformed after all. So with these very well-trained people, responsible people, the growing discipline will be in the protection of loyal matches, and I would say to protect our citizens from illegal occurrences. The results are very short-term. What I must also mention and thank, it is the Ministry of the Interior that gives full support in this battle to stop illegal and illegal transactions. It is primarily in the part of the protection and health of our people, in the protection of our state budget, it is also in the protection of citizens from such illegal institutions. Therefore, in a year the effects will be very significant because after their work the tax administration is moving, the tax administration that will then establish the stolen budget, the unpaid VAT, the conduct of Article 63, and there are then very clear messages. Once found in illegal transactions, they will no longer be left alone and will all be under heavy, fat supervision. I am convinced that by doing this we will slowly come to a reduction in the grey economy, as well as all those who intend to deceive citizens. What we conclude and where we fear is that now our citizens can go beyond the borders of the Republic of Croatia. In that part, try to understand management is no longer competent. Therefore, all our law enforcement authorities are unable to control what is happening beyond our borders. I must say that the European Commission is also doing everything to stop the non-taxation, tax avoidance or tax fraud by common measures, and that we will certainly try to find common criteria as ministers of the European Community countries. But still that danger is present that illegal savings, illegal business then endangers the property of our citizens and that many are trying to put their paws on that property. Then it's not our jurisdiction. Try to understand. It is the jurisdiction of the courts, and the courts again have some different logic than the government I say in that battle will simply not be stopped by any models. Therefore, it is also a message that we want to make it clear to the citizens that we will try to protect them, that every application is very important, that every newspaper ad, every paper under the car is the subject of control of Croatian customs which then prepares actions and tries to prevent illegal actions with the police. What we are trying to do at that moment is to take away the property of those who are engaged in illegal affairs to protect the citizens and give back everything that has been taken away from them but only if it happens to illegal businesses in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. As you can see, it is simply not just a bill of law where we are trying to regulate certain relationships, but in very clear policies, very clear programmes of the Government of Croatia we are fighting against the gray economy and we are fighting to protect the legal match and also to protect our citizens. And we believe that we will be able to discuss these results further and further in this House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48244	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48245	We are going to vote on the topics or proposals in the Croatian Parliament. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Consumer Credit Act, first reading, P.Z. No. 450. The debate on the proposal is over. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Consumer Credit Act, Any objections, proposals and opinions will be sent to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft law". I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most 90 votes in favour, 24 hungers against and 2 votes withheld the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48246	And now we're going to go to 3. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 451. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Labour and Pension System and the Social Partnership. You received the report at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Finance Minister Slavko Linic. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48247	I thank Madam Vice President, you won't mind if I'm brief, but I will still try to explain the essential characteristics of this law. Three reasons were to try in some way to build up the existing Income Tax Act. The first is to comply with European legislation. Is it also in that part that we should agree, and that is the process of simplifying, fulfilling the tax obligations in the Republic of Croatia so that in that part we are changing the rights to the deduction of Croatian residents but also European residents if their incomes are realised in Croatia, they have the same rights that they did not have so far. Also, when we talk about tax obligations, you know we've introduced a pension tax abroad. Mr. Hrelja has just had a debate at the High House suggesting that the IRS is doing a tax calculation, not that the pensioners are going around, trying to make those forms. We are now introducing it into this law and making it easier for all those pensioners who have more taxes, I apologize more pensions from abroad that the Tax Administration has an obligation to provide them with both the accounts and the payments of advances during the year. In addition, we know that many diplomatic, consular representations, representations of certain companies operate in Croatia, and what we provide is that these organisations for employees in Croatia calculate the obligation to suspend and pay advances of income tax for all their employees by giving them that share. And also, given the contracts to avoid double taxation, we determine who is a payer for advances if they make income in Croatia and outside Croatia and we enable that if someone has paid an advance outside Croatia that he is not obliged to pay in the Republic of Croatia. So that's the part that talks about simplifying and equating European citizens with Croatians when we talk about tax obligations. What's a newspaper is a public announcement. We estimate that we must strengthen financial discipline, that only supervision of the implementation of the Financial Business Act will not be sufficient and that is why we have assessed that we are entitled through this law to publish a list of employers who do not pay their salaries to their employees. And we determine which data we want to specify and what data we will simply give to in some way encourage all those who are responsible as employers or as owners to regularly pay salaries, if not found on that list. So we gave ourselves the legal right to publish their names. And now we come to those most important changes, which changes continue to show that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not want to change its position on taxation of dividends and share in profits. You know that we have estimated that in the Republic of Croatia it is a crisis time, we have estimated that we want everyone to carry the burden of the crisis together in this crisis time. And exactly the difference of this coalition government social policy can be seen precisely by how our goal is to help the humblest of layers, while at the same time those who have more burden on new taxes. This was the reason for you to know that we increased the non-taxable part on salaries in 1.33/2013, and all for the reason that the larger non-taxable part allows both the poorest layers to increase the amount of income based on salaries and on the basis of pensions. At the same time, it was not possible anymore, we estimate that with a larger VAT, the burden of these citizens followed. But at the same time, we also estimated that those who pay dividends, who until then were untaxable, should be taxed. We estimate that dividends are nothing more than income, income that was untaxable. As you can see, investments were reduced during the crisis in the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, any incentive that in Croatia investments are not taxed on the basis of dividends and were not a stage for larger investments. On the other hand, we saw that both the results of business and many failures in this private sector accumulated enormous losses, and in some ways we had no effect of these I would say paying off to get dividends in profits. It was all a slow, very clear government policy and we estimate that whoever can pay for dividends or profits is still a layer of citizens with higher incomes and we have estimated that they should be covered in taxes. We've been thinking for a long time whether or not to tax interest incomes, but here we've estimated that it's '12. and '13. the year where many prices should be harmonised. This means rising prices, inflation, so let's be honest with money at the time of inflation, losing its value and taxing interest is questionable whether or not it should be. And that's why we gave up at the time. The debate we have heard today is, or even the current hour, asked the question that we have a smaller number of citizens with large deposits whether we should tax it so that the genuine crisis is not resolved, and the question of interest tax is something that we will certainly open with the budget, but for now, the coalition government is not in the programme or in the guidelines for the next year 2014. But we've estimated that dividends should be taxed. At the same time, the coalition government also adopted a proposal that the profit tax should not be paid if the reinvestment is not necessary. And that's why in this year we have incomes somewhere 1.4 billion less for reasons why the company's profits kept and decided to reinvest. Therefore, a clear message to all those who have capital in shares or d.o.o. companies if you invest you don't have to pay the tax, if you draw it out, you have to pay a 12% tax on that income. True, we went to this and that 12 thousand kuna dividends or profit participation should not be taxed for the reason that we consider it to be income that can still serve citizens as some kind of minimum that should not be tax burden. And, of course, dissatisfied employers filed a constitutional suit, in which they were trying to explain to the constitutional suit that the earlier years profit, achieved means '02, '03, '04, '09, '10. They should not be subject to that taxation. And we estimate that, in our request for an assessment in the Constitutional Court, it is simply achieved earlier and that it is impossible to tax as such because it is retroactive, and retroactiveness is always questionable from the constitutional point of view. The Constitutional Court has stopped the application of this provision, has not yet reached a decisive conclusion in that part, and that was the reason with us long and in the government and in the ministry to analyse what is controversial about that part. We have now tried to explain the law in which part we tried to clarify it and tried to compare it with practice in Croatia and the Government and the Constitutional Court until today. And we're going back to the fact that I pay dividends is basically cash, which means it becomes your income the moment you pay it off. So the dividend wasn't made when you made a profit in your company, it was a dividend from the moment you decided to turn that profit into your right to withdraw your income and your income. Therefore, paying dividends or shares in profits is according to the cashier principle when it pays itself. We therefore say that the crisis in 2012, 2013 and that there will be a further crisis and that we are asking that people with slightly higher incomes and also rich people who are already on a regular working salary make a big contribution. And that's why it's impossible for the government of the Republic of Croatia to accept the interpretation of employers who are fighting and trying to say that they were thrifty, that they weren't pulling profit out of their companies, which is all the facts, we're not contesting it, but their profit that stayed and helped the companies might have generated a new profit, maybe it reduced the losses all that's true, but when they turn it into their own personal income, it's the date of payment. And that's why we made it very clear by the cashier's principle the date of payment means making income, and all those who earn income have to pay the tax that's worth that day. And here we differ in interpretations between employers, not wanting to reduce their contribution to profiting the state in companies at all, but also we believe that given the crisis they need to help solve this crisis and that they have paid their income after the adoption of this law. The very debate over the law lasted almost two months, and it was those discussions that will change everything in the tax system. And let's be honest in that period, a series of payments came, if they were aware that the government of Zoran Milanovic would propose a 12% dividend tax and win. It's something everyone had right, there were no regulations, their will is their gain, many have held congregations, so let's be honest one of the often mentioned companies like THT or HT has also paid almost a billion kuna to get just to avoid paying taxes. So that's what anyone could have done. And in some ways, we estimate that we are not contrary to constitutional principles, that the Constitution clearly states that the Government can assess when times of crisis and when additional taxes and such decisions can affect the redistribution between citizens who make their income and the need for a state budget. We even went to control, compare what was happening in Croatia in the past periods, and we had a similar problem when introducing a crisis tax. Why? So many did not pay for some of their former incomes, were affected by the Crisis Tax Act and paid for new crisis tax provisions, not by those provisions that were valid when some payments could possibly be paid. Even then, the Constitutional Court, because it was the subject of a dispute against the Government's decision on the crisis tax, has made its decision and found that it is not constitutionally disputed for the simple reason that payouts, payouts of individual receipts, payouts of income should be accounted for by the cashier principle. And that means when it's worth it. And that's why we haven't changed our essential decisions in the law of amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act. We're staying with them, we think it's tax taxing with 12% of dividend taxes to burden all those who haven't paid off their profits before this law is passed. And we're on it. We have changed certain provisions in which we make it very clear what income is, on which income is paid in principle, which is this cash register principle, and we are also giving clear clarifications as to what happened in earlier times in similar situations. We do not consider it constitutionally questionable to pass laws or such a provision. So that's why we're proposing with, now the clarifications that we stay in the same starting positions when we passed this Law and it's up to you to try to assess how much clearer and more precise we were this time in setting these articles of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48248	Thank you, Minister. A colleague of Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48249	Ministers, I thank you for this explanation regarding these amendments to the Income Tax Act. But what asked me to report to the replica is this. You are, in connection with public publication, and you wrote here in the pretext that the purpose of this public announcement is to go into these changes because you are motivated by legitimate objectives in ensuring tax discipline, encouraging taxpayers to subscribe to their obligations on an up-to-date basis, achieving greater efficiency as well as providing public insight to the extent necessary for the functioning of the legal order of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why we're doing these announcements, not to say pillars of shame, I don't know if it belongs to this Income Tax Act or to the General Tax Act. But what I'd like to see in these publications are those business entities, because of all of this and for the sake of legal certainty and for the tax discipline that entered into the programme of their debt and that it says that they are in the reprogramme, but that citizens know what amount these legal entities are in the reprogramme. For the sake of legal certainty, that is to say, all those employees, or officials of the tax administration, who forget to charge or let 200 or more kunas go into obsolescence. And I think if we were to make such announcements so we could say here we agree with this, we'll have legal certainty, we'll have transparency but at any moment we'll know which kuna was not paid, which legal entity did not charge or which official failed to charge or let go into obsolescence. And then I think it was the real transparency.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48250	Thank you. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48251	I thank you for your initiative, but why are we introducing publications into the law? For the reasons that they are legal persons or natural persons who have the right to certain protection. But when we talk about civil servants or tax or customs officials, they don't have the right to protect themselves. So whenever you want, you'll get all the data. So you know that in the Ministry of Finance, we've changed the first nine people for these kind of failures. We won't say that after 500 days, the company is in a blockade that the tax administration hasn't sent its request for a blockade based on unpaid taxes. That after 2.3 years, there was no solution to the real estate tax. If some properties had been sold, they'd gone into oblivion, it wasn't... All of these illegalities have been established on the work of the heads of individual administrations, which we have sanctioned by an emergency shift, by changing and now they change. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But it's not just the top of the tax administration that's responsible for 50 billion unpaid kunas, 50 billion. It is evident that it was also a lot of political influence and everything. But what I want to say is if you really want the names and last names of the people responsible for this, we can deliver it to you, they don't have any protection. And since the legal people of this second part enjoy protection, that's why we're changing the law. And in the future, we can really give you all the programs that have been given in the section and the reprogrammes and pre-price settlements. And the people who worked on it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48252	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. First on behalf of HDSSB representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48253	Madam Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister and Deputy, MPs and MPs, I will try to be brief and summed up in terms of less time. So there are several elements in this law. When it comes to harmonisation of double taxation and harmonisation with European legislation in the first articles of the amendments, we do not actually have any objections or suggestions. When it comes to this section concerning public publication, we have submitted an amendment relating to the delivery, the publication of data on those taxpayers, not only to those who do not pay salaries three months in advance but also to those who have not paid their salary in a period of six months for a period of three months. So it doesn't turn out that someone pays their salary for two months, and then one month doesn't pay, and then it's not three months in a row. So it's just, so it's just one brief addition to this to prevent some employers, some of course rare ones who are prone to abuse to get away from, under this provision, and to find themselves on that list even though, of course, no list will change unless someone really has money to pay their salaries, but there are other legal sanctions. So here's the amendment on behalf of the MPs' club. I also don't know why the original text says that the tax administration can, so it's not either the sea or it will, but it can publish that list. The word can stand, so I don't know if it was going to leave any space to be published or not to have to publish, or that's how it is. But if that list is intended to be published, fine. I'm saying, neither that list nor all those other lists that are publicly published is good for transparency, it's good for raising the simple level of information and public and employees and all those who want to be informed, although objectively none of the lists, we've seen from various lists that have been published, it's not important to change the factual state, regardless of the list of defenders, whether it's a list of taxpayers or a list here of taxpayers who don't pay. But I'm saying, with this amendment that we're proposing to actually further narrow down the possible room for manipulation, we're in agreement with that. The third thing these amendments to the law are about is what you were talking about at the end of your presentation, which is actually this proposal again about retrograde taxation of dividend profits and profit shares. This retrograde here since December 31st 2000, there's a lot of verbal acrobautics in these arguments on several sides, there's a lot of trying to do it verbally, in fact, to sort of figure out some kind of breakthrough model. From a moral point of view, some social values or what we would like in this society, we could probably say that something like that could be social, fair, useful, or that we could seize into one reservoir of those who have drawn billions of kunas actually through this over the past 13 years, but I don't think this many retrogrades are going to pass, regardless of what I'm saying to this acrobautic with that principle of the register, that it's actually not going to go through. Here I am not a lawyer, there's a lawyer, and that's how the constitutional suit will go again if this is voted out, so you'll see what the fate of that will be, but I don't think this look back on some 13-year-old income just won't go away. This reminded me, associated in some way when we were in '90. When there was war and when we needed money for weapons, they looked back and said, "Come on, you who lived in the nationalized apartments pay rent since it was nationalized, ever since you entered those apartments until this moment." You've lived in other people's apartments for 30, 40 years, you've used it, and the country's at war, so give that country a break and pay me not 100 euros a month for the past 30 or 40 years. I mean, it's just my association. It's just... It's just... It's just... So as far as that goes, we're still gonna talk about it at the club, and we don't even know if it actually makes sense to support something that we really think won't go away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48254	Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48255	Here's a colleague who says he's not sure, but he's still asking about this retrograde dividend payment, so now you've listed this association as well. I think this category of tax on dividends is just a matter of common sense, it's a purely moral neutral category. I ask you nicely, to be introduced tomorrow, and I think it will be necessary to introduce a property tax at some point, I suggest that we start with those who keep their apartments locked up as banks, and later when the people get up a little bit, I believe that all these faiths will sooner or later bear fruit, and then each and every one pays such a tax according to their own options. But what I was going to say is, you can imagine if a person said that if I wasn't going to pay the tax, my house was created 10 years or 20 years ago, that's such a logic that they're trying to disable and narrow down this provision by appealing now to the Constitutional Court. It doesn't matter when something happened, it's one thing. The other thing, I'm glad my colleague that you still support this law, we've seen from that previous law, so we've seen here this pillar of shame that many say won't get results. They will, they will, but as an auxiliary measure. It's not just an appeal and putting on a pillar of shame, it's all over the system and in the context of changes in social ones that have changed, believe it or not, in the last two years because earlier debt was a matter of success, they boasted not to pay. It's not like that anymore, and that's why we have to say that the government is completely responsible and a completely different direction to return one... civil and one business, one civic morality. This means that in front of the Ministry and what was happening, which was not charged by the tax collectors, which was under the direction of politics, that Minister Linic was followed by the cleaning of these Audi stables, although outside they were all in the marble and in the glass.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48256	Thank you very much. Thank you. Replication response, Drazen Djurovic. Please, there's plenty more to discuss and take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48257	Yeah, yeah, for a little while. When it comes to this real estate tax parallel that I really deeply hope will never be introduced or that at least in the years to come will not be introduced. It would be almost as if once a property tax was introduced to be introduced from the moment when man owned the property or since real estate was built. I think, and if that tax is ever introduced, I guess, and it will start from when its application takes effect, it won't be possible to re-apply as long as there's real estate or since it's our property. So that's exactly the parallel that's on the trail of what I was saying. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48258	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Martina Dalic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48259	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Minister. As you pointed out in your argument, this law deals, in fact, with the greatest effect of the amendments to the 2012 Income Tax Act, and these changes meant that they were part of the pensions of persons who earned these pensions abroad and the second segment of these amendments is the issue of taxing dividends, the way and the moment of payment, which was then suspended by the Constitutional Court by its provisional measure. And essentially what is proposed in this bill in a certain way is intended to address the consequences of these two amendments, and they are also trying to further clarify the problems and concerns and resolve the problems and misunderstandings that have arisen from taxing pensions earned abroad. And in the second part, again, try to clarify your stance on the taxation of dividends. So today we're actually discussing something that we discussed more than a year ago and something that has been pointed out that it's not going to be good and it's not going to produce good results. I will therefore, in my debate, focus on these very two issues, on taxing pensions earned abroad and on taxation of dividends. As regards pensions earned abroad by law since 2012 they are intended for the first time and prescribed by law that income tax on these pensions has to be paid in Croatia. It seemed then and tried to explain it then as if all these years there was actually one failure and there was one unwillingness not to tax those pensions. Today, however, you too see that this is not the case, but that many problems arise. These changes essentially do not solve these problems and do not solve the important problem that has arisen with taxing pensions earned abroad. Namely, what it's about. It is that Croatia, as stated in the explanation, has made 55 contracts to avoid double taxation with many European countries with Chile and other non-European countries. And by following those contracts, the pensions made in those countries are also taxed. The largest number of these contracts are recorded and predicts that in essence the Republic of Croatia will recognise and accept taxes paid in the country of origin as you yourself state what it means is that for the largest number of these pensions of effective income for the state budget there has never been, because after we prescribed that they are taxed in Croatia we had to look into double taxation contracts that are above domestic laws and we had to establish what these contracts say. And as you yourself state in those contracts, the tax paid abroad to these pensions is recognised as a paid tax. On the other hand, there are also countries where there are a significant number of Croatian origins popularly used the term Croatian diaspora with which Croatia does not have contracts to avoid double taxation. It's the United States, it's Australia, and it's all the states in South America except Chile. People who eventually returned to Croatia from those countries or persons who would like to return here are faced with a discriminatory position and discriminatory provisions of the Income Tax Act because their pension here is regarded as income, as gross income and have no way or any real possibility of being paid any tax in the countries where pensions were obtained here and recognised as paid tax. We therefore hold that such legal provisions are essentially in breach of the essential constitutional principles, which are described in Article 10, which states that all citizens of the Republic of Croatia living or staying abroad have equality and fairness in the tax system as well as citizens living in the Republic of Croatia. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The constitution states that the laws in the Republic of Croatia must be in agreement with the Constitution and the other regulations both with the Constitution and with the law. Therefore, Article 10 explicitly states that it is the task of the Republic of Croatia to promote the ties of its citizens living abroad with their country and is the principle obligation of the state and the legislator to take all those measures that will encourage further integration of Croatian citizens with their country. Therefore, also Article 7. The law on the relations of the Republic of Croatia with Croats outside, living outside the Republic of Croatia, is the obligation of the Republic to take measures to encourage the return of Croatian emigrants and the immigration of their descendants to the Republic of Croatia. In the same way, the Republic undertakes to facilitate the return of pensioners and other persons by concluding interstate agreements with the countries mentioned here. They 55 are such conditions and created for those who have earned their pensions in these 55 countries. However, for countries with which Croatia does not have contracts to avoid double taxation. These persons are faced with all these obstacles that are contrary to the fundamental constitutional principles and the tax system is therefore discriminatory for them. For this very reason, before 2012, there was no obligation to tax foreign pensions. We, therefore, as a HDZ club, use this opportunity to amend and supplement this law and we will propose an amendment to introduce in this law a new Article 3 behind Article 2 which will simply determine that the pensions of residents achieved abroad are not taxed. We believe that this is justified because it will not have any effect on the revenues of the state budget since the pensions made in the countries with which we have contracts to avoid double taxation of income does not exist or are minimal, and we will achieve the effects of creating a stimulating environment and strengthening an incentive environment for other citizens of the Republic of Croatia who live in countries with whom we do not have these contracts to be able to return to the Republic of Croatia, or to create conditions that will encourage them to return to their homeland. We believe that it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, we believe that it is in the interest of resolving and in a certain way motivated by the Croatian diaspora to help in Croatian recovery. The second point I told you about is the issue of taxing dividends. Thus, here on pages 2 to 16, pages 14 actually explain what the law written on two pages is about. Obviously, it is a difficult problem, and as counterpart Djurovic said, they are trying to agree and agree on it. We will see the ministers that this provision that you now propose will be assessed in relation to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. However, what I want to repeat here, I want to repeat it again and again to explain to everyone that the issue of taxation of dividends is actually about the deep discrimination of entrepreneurs in the Republic of Croatia. Because whatever provisions on the taxation of dividends were they only refer to entrepreneurs who are Croatian residents. Until we became a member of the EU, foreign residents with companies in the Republic of Croatia's dividends were taxed on the basis of these aforementioned double taxation contracts. Today, when we are a member of the EU, there is no tax on dividends among companies that are related to mothers and operate on EU territory. This means that we have been discussing banks all day today, but this means that there is no tax on the dividend that Raiffeisen Zagreb pays for Raiffeisen in Vienna. The same goes for Hypo, and now they are, of course, and we had a double tax avoidance contract with Italy, for example, where a 15% dividend rate was prescribed. Now there's no such thing. So the only ones who have to pay that dividend tax that you have introduced are Croatian entrepreneurs and Croatian residents. And I do, and we repeat again what we said and in 2012 the provisions on the taxation of dividends are deeply discriminatory and discriminate against Croatian entrepreneurs in relation to foreigners, on the part of entrepreneurs who operate in the Republic of Croatia. And we all advocate equal terms of business regardless of origin. Usually states try to provide more favourable conditions for their own citizens, residents however you like. We created here a legal situation where we created more favourable conditions lower and essentially lower tax burdens for foreign entrepreneurs than for domestic ones. We stand only for the unification of this injustice. Because in the end, and it was the reason why the HDZ government in 2004, abolished the dividend tax, which was well explained here, the whole history of that tax was explained here, which was introduced by Prime Minister Racan's government at the time because the revenues from that time were the whole 256 million kuna. And they were paid by Croatian entrepreneurs and those with whom we had no contracts, or those with whom we had contracts at lower rates. So the whole problem that we are actually discussing today and that is why this constitutional issue of constitutionality came from the treatment of dividends that he wanted to pay off to Croatian telecoms, which is a German resident that we didn't have a contract with at the time. Therefore, whatever principle we introduce, whatever the principle of the cash register, either the principle of which is the moment when the profit was created or... the principle of results is the same. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And this is that this tax is fully a burden on domestic entrepreneurs. You have used numerous social arguments here that it is necessary, of course, to deploy the tax burden to members of society equally based on the principle of justice, that those who have more should pay more. It is obvious that entrepreneurs who have more, however, have repeated themselves countless times, and in the previous debate, have said that we are developing a market economy and that socialism is over. So exactly the argument that you are now using in this debate why we have a dividend tax and why it is applied in the way it applies is to forgive a socialist argument. Because entrepreneurs are the ones who create a new value, who create jobs and who we expect and who are the only ones who can truly create a better economic situation, and the task of the country is to create better conditions for them. The HDZ Club will therefore submit an amendment relating to taxation of pensions earned abroad, and we are confident that you will quickly conclude and come to the conclusion that taxation of dividends, incomes that you will possibly achieve have no financial impact on the budget, and are creating major economic damages. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48260	Thank you. Domagoj Milosevic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48261	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, just two sentences to what my colleague Dalic said. First, we need to be aware that since 1st July Croatian entrepreneurs can also do business in other EU countries, and I personally talk about it many times over the last few years, and that is to be careful because I know, in particular, I have spoken publicly about some of my friends who have moved from Croatia and are still entrepreneurs, the findings in Croatia are not doing business that should and do not create jobs here. There are sectors that now that we are a full member of the EU will simply move somewhere else, actually pay taxes but will conduct their business in Croatia neatly after 1.7. Transporters are, say, one of these sectors. So when we talk about taxes, it's a really serious topic. A few months ago, we'd be here to debate again because I'm actually speaking very generally right now, we're constantly changing tax laws and constantly changing taxes. So foreign investors one thing a year I talked to them continuously, one of the very important assumptions for deciding to finally invest in one country, and these people and these serious investors are looking at not a map of Europe, a map of the world, thinking exactly how stable it is somewhere and between the other and tax policy and how often it is changing. I won't even talk about retroactivity. And speaking of tax competitiveness, I don't think I know whether you or your children go to Amazon and look at the prices, prices that can be ordered by clicking three buttons on the computer today, you will get home the goods and you don't need to buy more at Croatian stores. That's a serious problem, so it's not a joke. We are a small market where otherwise prices are relatively high for certain products, domestically, foreign imports are not now entering the structure of that. So tax competitiveness, and when we compare with another country, it's terribly important, and we have a feeling that we're constantly acting like we're at 30,000 euros per capita. No, we just have to get to 30 euros. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48262	Thank you very much. Franjo Lucic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48263	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, just at the presentation of fellow Dalic, and today listening to the minister in one sentence, he said if we do, we will have to re-introduce additional taxes on citizens. I think we've talked here a lot and we should really think about how and how to reduce that tax ruling. Each law or any amendments and additions shall refer to an additional repression of tax or additional tax. So the same thing when we talk about dividends, same thing when we talk about pensions made abroad. When we talk about a deficit that has also been discussed today on several occasions, I think respected ministers should just look for funds to resolve the deficit issue, to address the issue of additional taxation, especially citizens in public enterprises. It is clear to all of us that public enterprises are within the ownership of the Republic of Croatia companies that spend enormous resources, resources that leaks everywhere and exactly where we have no control. First of all, I mean HZ, Croatian highways and everything that is owned by the state. We're witnessing that 250 state-owned companies have done everything with a loss, so I'm asking who's responsible for this? There are funds that need to be asked for both deficits and extra taxation, and here's my suggestion, it doesn't have to be exactly on your side, but there are huge differences. In HH, you're getting leaks all over the place so I don't talk about entry prices, not to mention everything else, but there are reserves and these funds from public companies tomorrow you'll solve the deficit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48264	Thank you very much, but this wasn't a replica to my colleague Dalic. You didn't answer. Igor Radjenović's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48265	I was surprised that the H.C. had started to leak all over the place, not for 10 years. But good. Mrs. Dalic often these topics dividend yes or no but often forget to say and always say that it is a burden for entrepreneurs etc. It's not a burden on entrepreneurs, it's a burden on capital income. Since you know well, and everyone on this side of our assembly knows that if, and this government has also made an investment profit, there is no charge. Therefore, if the new one invests in business, then it helps the economy and that is the goal of this government. It is clear that we are also now not repeating the story of the disbursement of the economy of 5 billion kunas from contributions to health, from the dispensation of the tourism economy, the catering industry, and we have seen what and how these businessmen are saying. So it's what my colleague said recently, it's just a matter of common sense. If these and such entrepreneurs have a burden on workers' salaries on average 32.33%, then on their income, it is logical that their income from capital comes to the same figure. And here I speak of righteousness and between the owners of the capital and those who work together for them. I think that's why it was the goal, and that's how it came to be. So dividends, the dividend tax doesn't have to be a burden on entrepreneurs if entrepreneurs really continue and invest in production, let's figure it out once in this assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48266	The answer to Martin Dalic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48267	I agree with you, colleague Radjenovic, on this last sentence that we should once again determine what it means to be an entrepreneur. From your discussion, I conclude that you believe that every time a natural person pays a dividend to pay for consumption. I assure you that's not the case. The entity first has the right to pay the contribution to the capital invested and the second nowhere found that such a paid profit, the paid contribution will not be re-invested in the business. Because the way our system is currently being arranged, we force the entrepreneurs to remain trapped within the business activities they're doing. Or getting into new business activities through existing companies. It's a restriction on entrepreneurial activity, whether you want to admit it or not. And by the way, you know the problem is that entrepreneurs always manage. And I am convinced that information has also come to the minister about how dividends are paid without tax and without profit tax and without dividend tax. That's why there's a legal, well-founded legal way. And that's what you do. It's just that we've introduced legal restrictions that we explain to ourselves that we're doing some sort of social justice thing. No, we're just making business conditions more difficult and complicated the lives of those we keep swearing to are an important, important and unforgivable ingredient of our recovery. And I'm afraid there is no recovery.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48268	Thank you. A few words were asked for by Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48269	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I don't see the need to convince each other, that's the difference between platform and politics. HDZ wants to give money to rich people. Entrepreneurs if they pay dividends are rich people who pay less taxes in the Republic of Croatia than workers. It's your policy. And you have the right to that policy. You're the protectors of rich people and you think that's the way it should be. Imagine, my colleague says it's socialism. And do you realize what the problem is, Germany is socialism because it has that tax, there is no need to count that 80% of the European Union countries have that tax. I didn't know they were socialist countries, I really didn't. Because it's a matter of politics how much to burden. Thanks to the HDZ that abolished that tax, the people who lived on profit participation were also the reason that many did not pay their wages, no, they did not want to be workers. They worked in the company but paid their profits because they gave less for both health care and education and schooling. Yeah, that's the difference, that's how we differ significantly. And allow me, nor does he want to convince you to change that idea, but let's be honest, the question of dividends is whether we are in favour of bringing together the public needs of Croatia or social programmes. You think more should be paid by a worker who has an average salary of 5 grand but those who get dividends should pay less. And you're still accusing it's socialism and imagine 80% of the countries in Europe have this... But the question remains who concluded the contracts to avoid double burden when we talk about these let's the residents, not the residents, who's locking them up. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, we were bad negotiators. My people, here it comes true, here it earns but pays elsewhere. That's how we figured it out, we gave those taxes, we didn't fight because... What I can add, all the malfeasances that entrepreneurs are working to escape from a particular country have slowly come to the minds of the European Commission. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] The basic job is not to enable tax obligations now to avoid paying tax obligations. Automatic data exchange, where you sit, where you live, how you live, what you earn and who you pay. It's not easy to know the Swiss are fiercely resisting to give information, fiercely, because they all went there, but the Germans and the Austrians and the French go there, pay nothing, and they make money in other countries. Now that doesn't fit Europe either. Not Europe. Yes, yes, a fierce battle between Ireland which also favors many not to pay taxes. You know, it's come to my senses and Europe. We want to pay taxes and we want to be like the rest of us in Europe. That's what makes us different. This coalition government thinks we must all give the same for education, education. And let's once understand the incentive of entrepreneurs I never understood encouraging his private money. Encouragement of entrepreneurs is his activity. Say you don't have to pay 20% of the profit tax if you keep it and you can invest it in 10 other companies, you can invest it outside the borders of Croatia or in an existing company. It is encouraging entrepreneurs to interest him in investing money in the workplace, in the workplace, in preserving production, in investments. Yes, this government has made it clear to the coalition. We encourage entrepreneurs, but take money in the private pocket, the sea, has the right and we do not dispute, but like the rest of Europe, let you be equal with the worker. These are different political options, these are different ways of taxation. Try to understand, we don't need to convince ourselves, this is our part. Which is the basic problem, which is why I'm explaining 14 pages, so because you see the huge resistance of entrepreneurs who want to take the money, not leave for the battle for the workplace, for improvement, no, so let the government gobbling with pre-determined settlements. No, we want to take the money we made earlier, so now we want to rip it out because there's the taxpayers dealing with their problems in companies. Yeah, that's what we don't want. But also now I'm asking you, income, whether the pay is income, is. If one year an entrepreneur does not pay his salary, one year does not pay the worker's wages, what contributions will be applied when paid, those of a year ago or those who are in power today? Does that... answer me, yes, will those who are in power today, it's a worker's salary, it's his income. So he won't be paid by those regulations a year ago because income and wages are part of that income tax principle. You pay now, you pay now. So you did the same thing as HDZ, you introduced a crisis tax and you clearly defined what it was going on. A lot of people had money unpaid from before. What principle did you apply, without a crisis tax or a crisis tax? With a crisis tax. Who has even reached a constitutional verdict to go according to the principle of the register, the Constitutional Court, exactly quote you the Constitutional Court's solution. So we're exhausted here to say that the employee's salary that's considered to be part of the income must be based on the principle of the cash register and that it's on principle, and for what? The dividend is not, which is the same income, is not based on the principle of the cash register. We can't find understanding here, and we don't want to find it. So it's not too hard whether it's dividend or not, it's politically different options. You don't, and when you come to power and you get trust, you protect rich people, you protect entrepreneurs to draw money, and you don't care about jobs. You're right. And we think, we'll encourage him to leave the money, but to pay the dividend if he wants to be taken. Why, to equate the burden of public needs and public needs are from culture, education, health care, science, social policy. And that's where we differ, and we won't be outwitting in that part. Yes, you have the right to such opinions, we have different opinions. And now imagine the same thing, pensions. If pensions are taxed in the world, they are taxed. Were we good negotiators that a German pensioner who doesn't live in Germany, lives here, uses medical needs, benefits and infrastructure, all uses, whether he pays taxes here, no. We have negotiated that Germany has a right because it pays him, regardless of where he lives and uses healthcare services, he must pay Germany. We were bad negotiators. And now you're saying because we've had a bad negotiation there we shouldn't have to tell anyone who came from outside. An American... here, he has to get health care and this and that and the same and the ambulance, but he won't pay taxes. Let the worker pay the man who comes from the outside. No, we say no, we're having a tough time, I'd say a negotiation with America when we talk about a double tax avoidance agreement, tough. But now we're just saying if you realize what the basis is, we're trying as a government to make it clear that everything that wasn't correct in some way we're trying to even. We don't derivate anyone constitutionally or put him in a more unfavourable position. The fact that we've arranged something so someone's bound to pay a tax somewhere else he pays the same tax, just because we've been bad negotiators somewhere else and there's all the difference. Therefore, the pension system is no problem, we are changing the provisions, why, that the pensioner does not run or report, that will do the IRS. We changed that. And here we are indeed 14 pages trying to explain that behind us there is a worker with his salary and entrepreneur with dividend income and that the principle of the cash register is valid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48270	Thank you very much. Domagoj Milosevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48271	... The respected ministers are really different, and that's different in terms of how we're going to get to that 30,000 euros per capita head or 40 or 50. [[Specially enabled.]] This way, and you've seen it for the past year and a half, we won't. That's just as clear. Neither your budget is getting better nor the result of economic policy in the past year and a half, a little longer, has brought you the result you were hoping for, and so are we here. Yesterday it was said on the topical, and no one's ironed it for over a year and a half on this side of the assembly at any point. And after five years of crisis, no normal policy-related person can exemplify a difficult situation that is unfortunately more difficult and more difficult. And when the tourist season is over, unfortunately, the number of unemployed will rise again, and this is not the result of wealthy entrepreneurs. Unfortunately, in Croatia if you compare yourself to the society we just entered 1.7, there are not many wealthy entrepreneurs. There are those who mostly have very large debts with very high interest rates that barely pay, from the biggest ones, I won't name anyone, to the smallest. But when we talk here in the Parliament, we talk first of all about middle and small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. They're the ones who can really bring a new wave of employment. I don't see how we're gonna get here and some of your government are talking about a million and a half, two million employees, who's gonna hire them? The state won't. So, only entrepreneurs, and that's one pretty weird kind of people, quite a strange variety especially in our country, given everything that's been going on for the last ten years not to say from what year on. So she's pretty tough. So we are clearly different in how to get to the top of the 30, 40,000 euros per capita. Today is your birthday and I congratulate you and I want you to live a long life and you and I can get to that 40,000 euros per capita head because this time we're going, I'm afraid we won't get there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48272	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48273	We're both economically educated, so we should understand each other. For the past year, the government has made it possible for entrepreneurs to invest in profits that they do not have to pay taxes, a billion $400m in this year's budget is less. It's not an incentive. A billion and 400 kuna less taxes paid because we allowed them to keep the profits, keep the profits, reinvest it. And what does it matter to us? Oh, that's exactly the place to work. And it doesn't even matter if he gives a new one, so he doesn't fire the workers. We left the entrepreneurs behind. But what do you suggest? You're suggesting that an entrepreneur picks up in his pocket, goes outside, buys a yacht. Is that what you want? All right, that's what we're different about. I don't mind, this government doesn't mind. It's his money, he's right. Only before that will he pay 12% of the tax on paid dividends because he uses that dividend for personal purposes. Because if he wants to invest he doesn't have to draw out, and now you're trying to make it clear that personal payments and personal spending are our future, then I say no, you're making a difference. Let the worker pay for everything, let the pensioner pay for everything, and we the rich have the right to take and live as we please. This government says you can't! This government says if you're fighting for that employee, you don't have to pay taxes if you give him a job. But if you take it in your pocket, you have to pay 12%, and the biggest tragedy is that serious Europe has those taxes. You were against it. Why? You want to fill the pockets of rich people. Well, no problem, you're right, but when you're in power.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48274	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48275	Dear Minister Linic, here you are now speaking as a Social Democrats and of course I support you and fully agree. The state must not be the one who wants to be social like Superhik to take the poor and give to the rich what Mr Milosevic appears to be after. Yes, the dividend needs to be taxed. This is what you were talking about, a few parliamentary MPs ideological issues, yes. This is a question this government taxes the rich, another government will tax the poor, allow the rich to get richer. What you're saying about the measures this government has made possible the economy, and that's the one that's investing in profits, there's no tax to be paid. However, many entrepreneurs would also like not to invest and take without tax. And certainly in such moves and measures you will have the support of Croatian Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48276	Thank you. A colleague of Martina Dalic, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48277	Thank you very much. Well, you're right, Minister, so it wouldn't be good if we agreed on everything, and this must be one important thing actually is the difference between the views of these two parties and I actually think and need it. We see in quite a different way the motive for entrepreneurs engage in this so-called business activity. You see that he needs to be kind of forced to open those jobs, we see it the other way. And in fact, that's one and a good difference I'm just drawing attention to the current economic situation. But you said the shields were rich because you said and you made arguments that the work would be taxed more than capital. Well, in fact, we in this debate would come up with an answer to the question of what is more taxed labour or capital, and then we would probably have to address the effective tax rates paid and then you know and I know how effective the rate of income tax is and that the effective tax rate on income is actually the question of whether it goes into the two-digit area, I don't remember it anymore, but you will, but I think there's going to be around 11, 12%. So when you take the total tax paid on some salary you put in relation to what makes the income. What is an effective tax rate on this famous capital is certain that you could give information there and then add income and dividend taxes and untaxed taxes and such things. That's basically what this debate is about, and I think it's actually not right, or that it's pre-named your thesis because you're protecting the rich, and we're protecting the poor. I don't think that's what this is about, because we're all poor together in this country.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48278	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48279	First of all, one correction, it's not the SDP thing, this is the coalition's proposal. Therefore, there are several parties who support such a philosophy to not only attribute it to the SDP, in that part of the correction. On the other hand, I'd say rhetorically you're protecting the rich is something that's not true because it's a small part of the rich who pays off the big dividends. Most of them are humble craftsmen, humble entrepreneurs who thus secure their annual incomes. So to talk about the rich, I'd rather say it was rhetorical because you're trying to say that with this proposal to tax dividends we're against entrepreneurial activity and against jobs. So let's be honest, if we're speaking economically then we know and we need to know this is taxation of our own income. And most Croatian entrepreneurs are not wealthy, they are minority. Therefore, I agree with you that it is not your policy to protect the rich, but it is to protect the less public-needed giving of those who deal with entrepreneurship from investment in capital than it is when we speak of the obligation paid by workers. And in that we're just different. So it's not the subject of this law because that's where we defined it as a coalition policy. In this proposal, what are we explaining? Whether the salary you receive a year later is taxed according to the principle of the cash register, and that the entrepreneur and the worker have income only because he has a dividend and goes according to the principle of the cashier when it is paid. And that's what I'd say is the essence of all these arguments and interpretations in the draft amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48280	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and Croatian Civil Party counterpart Nevenka Bečić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48281	Thank you very much. Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister, Deputy Minister, esteemed colleagues and colleagues, as you can see in front of us is the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act, which the Government has referred to us for discussion and adoption. The Income Tax Act has been in force since 1 January 2005 and it has clearly defined who taxpayers are, which are sources of taxable income, the way taxation is done, the tax base, the tax rate, tax exemptions, incentives and the way income is determined and the way the tax is paid. From the date of entry into force of the basic law until today, if we exempt this amendment and supplementation, so far there were 5. And in the course of these 5 amendments and the addition of the Income Tax Act, the proponent always looked at the economic and economic situation and the environment that currently existed in this country. And I must point out that the social aspect was particularly taken into account and approached socially sensitive to that category of population that had the lowest incomes. So, on several occasions, a personal deduction has been increased, and it is also not a waste to mention that even the lowest rate of taxable interest that was once 4% reduced seems to me to 3% in 2011 and thus also to those who had to and were forced to use the loans from the employer came to meet because such interest was untaxable. Through these amendments and additions to the basic law among other things in 2012, it seems to me in particular 11 months 2012, the method of determining the income from the receipts resulting from the sale of 3 or more of the same type of real estate or three or more types of property rights of the same type within 5 years has been amended. All these changes and additions were necessary because, I repeat, they were looking at the economic and financial situation at a given time. What I have left behind for the last and what I want now, what I want to look back on, and in fact, what I have reported for this debate is taxing dividends and profit-based shares in capital, which is, by amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act since March 2012. As I recall at the end of February last year, I drew attention to some elements relating to retroactive taxation of such a type of income. And I warned, I made my point, which I'm about to repeat now, because then in the House, I didn't speak about taxing that kind of income. I would say this: from 2001, so 1.01.2001 to 31.12.2004, the Income Tax Act was in force, which prescribed that income from dividends and capital shares based on shares in capital, so profit after tax, tax income. And this law was defined as capital income, which means that it was taxable, and then the 15% rate was in force also during that period of profit after tax if it remained in the company and was used to reinvest or to increase capital was not taxable. However, in 1.1.2005, a new Income Tax Act enters into force which also excludes these provisions from dividends and profit-based incomes from a share in capital does not consider taxable income. And this is what is at stake in all this because if we approach the amendment today and the supplement of the Income Tax Act and retroactively introduce taxation of what has been achieved and what was created by business events and the basis of established income in companies that paid profit tax and profit after tax they were able to pay to participants or shareholders, and at that time this law was untaxable even though there were in many situations decisions of the Assembly to get paid after tax to participants, therefore to the owners of companies with limited liability or shareholders, therefore to the holders of shares in the stock companies many did not approach the request for payment. Why? So because it was a period and a time and in 2005, 2006, when many entered investment projects, they went to risk, they invested, they expanded their registered activities, they carried out on a wider scale, they hired new workers all in good faith. None of such entrepreneurs assumed that there would be a time of crisis, a time of recession when many of what they invested and lost. However, this law was therefore the case from 2005 to 2011, as I said earlier here, amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, which and such profit held by companies taxed both dividends and profits after the tax that remained in the companies as retained profits. Now what's going on here? The damages that can come from the application and adoption of such a law are the following, only taxing something that took place 7 years ago, which leads us to the existence or investors, will potentially lead to the existence of legal uncertainty in the Republic of Croatia, which means that with a very high amount of caution, they will approach investment investments and will well consider whether their capital will invest and invest and launch some projects in the area of the Republic of Croatia or perhaps in another EU member, because before they engage in any investment, they will make a study of the viability of their investment because no one is starting a business activity without even pre-calculating the profits achieved. So before he gets involved, he's going to do a study on how much he's going to make out of a single investment, and in making such studies, he's going to first study legal regulations and, in particular, tax regulations. And when he reads the Income Tax Act, he sees that in 2013 the amendment and addition of the Income Tax Act was introduced to tax the profits after the tax that remained in the companies, which was earned in 2005, 2006, 2007.itd. Then he'll think deeply about what legal uncertainty there is in this country and whether or not to invest at all. This is one aspect of the problem of introducing retroactive taxation of dividends and profit-based shares in capital. Another aspect is the lack of equality or justice. Why? So if an entrepreneur or shareholder is a profit that was achieved in 2005 to which the company paid a profit tax at that time of 20% raised that profit after tax, for example. In 2006, he did not pay any tax, and those who did not then predict it say that he would predict that after the entry into force of this law he would pay 12% of the income tax increased by a corresponding tax prescribed by the local self-government of that city in which his company is established. And that's what the application of such a law as negatively brings with it. Furthermore, I would refer to what the Honorable Mr. Minister said, which is that the dividend is, that is, the profit they have both the participants and the shareholders' income. As I agree, that is, income, but according to the 2005 law, the legislator did not treat it with taxable income and there is a problem. Furthermore, I agree with Mr. Minister when he said that profits should be paid according to the principle of the cash register, I agree, and I also agree that if the company today pays the profit tax 20%, that it is small, that the person who gets that profit should pay, so the owner has to pay these 12% because it's not much. When you add that up, that's 32, or 33% of the rate is added. And when we go back. Since 1997. By 2000, every legal person paid 35% of their profits. So this is still less than then. And then we weren't in crisis or recession. Therefore, this is justified by the fact that in the law, the bill stated that tax and dividends and profit shares were derived from the share in capital. But this should be applicable to the profit achieved in 2012, '13. And still. So, from the day the law came into force. Not retroactively. Furthermore, the minister noted that HT paid off the profits when he learned that the law would enter into force, so before 1 March 2012. But it wasn't just HT did it, it was done by many. And that is why I fear that this will result in more damages than benefits because the inflow from this income tax that will flow into the budget of the Republic of Croatia will be minor and negligible compared to the potential damages that will occur because it will stop potential investors from investing in our economy, i.e. to invest in the territory of the Republic of Croatia. I would also touch on this crisis tax that the minister mentioned. The truth is, the crisis tax was accounted for and paid for both the profit and the retained profit that was paid and applied to the previous periods, meaning 2005, '06. etc. This was a newly introduced tax that did not exist in the tax system of the Republic of Croatia until then. However, income tax is a tax, a tax category which is recognizable which applies to the independence of the Republic of Croatia and before that. And there's some difference. Furthermore, what matters and needs attention. Get dividends and profit from the share created by business events since 2001. By 2004, if paid in 2005, '06, '07. So, it was always taxable at the tax rate currently in place, so it was 15%, so since 2010, that rate has dropped to 12%, of course, by a cut. So it was always taxable, never in any tax period after it took place in 2005 could it never pay off the profits earned in 2001, '02, '03. And '04. and that she wasn't paid taxes and belonging to a cut. And there's the difference. So here we only have a dispute between 2005 and 2011. And here you should consider whether to go like this, or my opinion, I'm going to say again that dividends and profits should be taxed, they should certainly be taxed. Because that is income, and that is the principle of the cash register, but in a law still in force in 2005 it was not characterised either as income or as the principle of the cash register. [[Intruder: Thank you, conclude.]] Thank you very much. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48282	A colleague named Nadica Jelash, a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48283	Well, I actually just wanted to do a very short replica of my colleague Becic. In its debate, it opposed the retroactive taxation of dividends achieved earlier years. For example, you've spoken in 2000. By 2004, therefore, what is the essence of the principle of the register is taxed on dividends at the time it is paid, not at the time it was created, so not in the years it was created but at the time it was paid. Here's the bottom line of what I was about to say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48284	Reply to the replica of counterpart Nevenka Becic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48285	Thank you very much. Now, I'd like to draw attention to the principle of the register. Therefore, the principle of the register is a principle which has always been applied and applied to craftsmen and natural persons who are self-employed and are based on Articles 18 to 21. Income tax law equal to tradesmen. In their case, income and expenditure shall be determined on the date when they have charged their demand or when they have fulfilled their obligation. But the principle of the register is not stated in the law in 2005, nor is that profit defined as income, there is a problem. Otherwise the principle of the cashier's yes, taxation yes, and I'm for it. But there's a need to think about how to bridge that period because I'm afraid there's going to be more damage than benefits from it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48286	Thank you. The word was requested by Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48287	Madam Vice President. Very briefly, thank you for the debate, Mrs. Becic, and what can we say? We see that, another thought that it is also necessary to tax dividendly in that part of income tax. And there's no dispute. The question remains whether or not it is acceptable to tax dividends from earlier times. Where does the backbone of this proposal we're improving see? We're going back to the same thing again. And these dividends were made by profits in earlier periods that were paid during the crisis tax, and then the Constitutional Court decided to apply the principle of the register. Therefore, the Constitutional Court also determines the principle of the register on dividends made by earlier profits if they are paid during the crisis tax. Neither the tax ruling nor the Government of the Republic of Croatia determines that. That's what the Constitutional Court defined. Let's be honest, the profits were made, the shareholders didn't withdraw the dividends and they fell into a crisis tax and they paid for it. They paid it, although before that it was not those who paid dividends before that did not pay the crisis tax and the Constitutional Court ruled that the principle of the register should be applied. We therefore assess that the Constitutional Court is an interpreter of constitutional rights and protection of equality and security. We now say and what is the difference if we now determine that the profits have been determined in earlier periods, that shareholders have not withdrawn the profits, so those who withdrew here even before this adoption of the law did not pay the dividend tax and we now say paid dividend means income achieved in 2012, 2013 and by the principle of the register as established by the Constitutional Court we consider it to be taxable. If we didn't have exactly this kind of practice, we wouldn't probably be thinking about whether or not we're going into the past, but when we're clearly trying to determine that dividend is essentially a dividend and part of the income on the payday, and not the day we get it. So that's where we're different. So why 14 pages now, why try so hard to say that we don't see any difference between a crisis tax because it also referred to paid shares and profits. And he's like a new tax and this is now a new tax, regardless of what he used to exist but we've introduced a new tax, a dividend tax, and... it's paid. Therefore, if the principle of the register is then it is not retroactive. If it were to be paid for, then it would be a retroactivity for profit, the principle of the cashier is not worth it, but the year it was achieved. And just here we're trying to clarify our views, that's why after stopping these articles from the Constitutional Court, we've been thinking a lot, and here we've spent a few long months, but we think we're not wrong at all because we're taking the earlier decisions of the Constitutional Court. It is up to us to explain this to you, that you assess what you will, and the Constitutional Court will rejuvenate. But that's where we wanted to avoid any possible misunderstanding. We explain where we find our basis, find our basis in crisis tax, paid dividends and by the Constitutional Court's decisions to apply to the payment of dividends as part of the income principle of the register. And try to understand, we don't want to take anything that isn't constitutional, but we do have people who know how to read regulations, they know what happened in the past, and they know earlier decisions of the Constitutional Court. It's up to us to evaluate it that way, the Constitutional Court will make a final decision and after that we'll see what happens. There won't be much damage, there won't be. It's a very small amount of unpaid dividends from earlier times. A good part of them paid off over the years when they made a profit, one part before the law was passed, and very few are those who simply paid. I'd say after the law was passed, almost no one paid, when we're talking about dividends before 2012. And those who still have a share of the profits that they have not paid, will pay depending on the Constitutional Court's verdict, but the issue remains of some equality. I believe that if the principle of the register were not applied then we are incorrect to all those who, according to the Constitutional Court's decision, have paid a crisis tax on paid dividends. At the same time, we try to tell if the worker is paid and the entrepreneur is considered an income, why does the worker when he gets a year of late pay contribute to the new system when it is paid, but the entrepreneur does not pay for the new system. Therefore, we are trying to defend the principle of equality with all these arguments. We are pleased that more or less than the HDZ Club, we do not differ in the need to tax dividends, and the disputed constitutional principle is whether or not the retroactivity is left to the Constitutional Court. We're just trying to say as a coalition government we don't think we've caught retroactively because of the principle and the principle of the cash register, so let's let them decide if they think our solutions aren't right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48288	Replica, Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48289	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, I'll try to be brief. Dear Mr. Minister, so what is actually a lesson when we talk about this retroactivity or message. The message is if you're good and you're trying to plan ahead of time to do something, develop, you'll be punished. Right? So if that's kind of a lesson or a message, I'm guessing it wasn't your intention, but that's what it came down to. So a message in a serious state that wants to get to that 30,000 euros per capita can't be taken money and run today because who knows what's going to happen tomorrow and who knows what's going to happen and don't happen to wait a year. That's not supposed to be a message, that's where you'll agree. I only have one more sentence from our previous debate, so no one in this Chamber is sure I'm not going to pay taxes, pay taxes and avoid paying taxes. But when you talked about the European Commission's efforts then you talked about it, which is about fighting money laundering and avoidance of tax payments, but the European Commission and that it will not be able to stop the best or the most successful ones from Paris after Holland introduces a 75% tax not to go to London and make their income there, there they pay less taxes than in Paris. I personally know two such lords from Paris. So that's certainly not the way we're supposed to go. So we do not want to export those who need to make income and pay taxes in Croatia and not work elsewhere. Today, there are also a whole series of sectors for which you really don't even have to live and stay there, and that you do your business or your income where you don't live.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48290	The reply to the replica of Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48291	And listen, if you say when you make a profit, you don't have to pay taxes if you keep it to fight for your economy and your money. It is not a message you are running from Croatia, but come and invest seriously. Those are very clear messages. I'm starting to think that today a good and serious entrepreneur always wants to spread, invest, and not collect into his own pocket. So that's one message. And the second we're trying to say you're welcome, but you have to have the same conditions as that employee who works at his company. These are two messages we clearly want to send and no other message. We also send a message if you are already paying dividend taxes in your countries why don't you pay in Croatia. He's not one of the tallest. Therefore, with a series of positive messages we tried to send. Now let's be honest, many of our football players are happy to apply to Monte Carlo. And we'll see how long it takes. I'm telling you, the battle in Europe is not only against tax fraud, but also the avoidance of tax payments. The European Community will fight very well against countries that are eligible to pay less taxes and elsewhere earn money. This is the European Commission's policy, which is seriously discussed. There will be huge oppositions, huge ones. Why? So some countries enjoy pulling people back, pulling the citizens and taking the money that is not with them. They are members of the European Community. He'll have to flee to Africa. It's all right. But basically we have to be equal as workers and as entrepreneurs, send a message.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48292	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Silvano Hrelja. Here you go, pal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48293	Dear Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. With congratulations on a happy birthday, I would also like to say that the Croatian party club will vote in favour, support the draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act with the final draft law. I'd look back on some of the dilemmas that are highlighted here in this debate, so I'd just pull a parallel with one of our situations and maybe one Italian situation. Let's say we're until '97. They could pay, in 1997 they could pay our living, life insurance policies could pay our companies, and it wasn't accounted for as income. Since '97. It started to count as income. We're the ones who did it neatly, who had it like I did, and we've been vinculating that policy in our name and still paying out of our net salary. It's been 15 years and we've made a request or a new insurance policy, but under that contract it's expired and we could have raised the money. So, we've experienced that insurance. Of course, at the age of seven or five, as many as were on the company's cargo, taxes were paid. What we paid for wasn't even paid for. So, I don't see what we're proposing right now, and it wasn't in practice already. We have a case of four trade networks in Italy that were created under their Co-operation Act. So they're participants or point-blanks they call them members of a copy of a consumer. And they had such a law as a nonprofit organization, as a cooperative can make profits but they have to invest it. And they developed the entire network throughout Italy, they had in Croatia, there was Ipercop here at the port, they went outside Italy. They developed an entire network and became the fourth or fifth financial force in all of Italy. What's going on now? They're doomed to growth and development. They had developed both Ipercop and Supercop after that, because the moment they wanted to sell it all and share it with their members they first had to settle the tax to the state. And I don't see anything controversial about it. These are some normal processes. I mean it can be parallel to pull with a question to get. If he's invested, I'm free. As long as I have growth and development who said I had to hire a hundred people. No, I can buy state-of-the-art technologies and set up the best productivity. So no one tied me up with anything. Therefore, these are normal circumstances for me, normal requirements and something that has already been seen here on this territory, that is, in our country and in the territory of Croatia. In the second part, I'd like to take a little polymize with my dear colleague, former Minister Mrs. Dalic. I'd just like to say one thing, that the Income Tax Act didn't mention taxes on foreign pensions until the last changes. Therefore, the law stated that pension benefits from abroad were not considered income. Since 2005, when we paid our first Christmas Christmas to pensioners on the principle of a smaller pension, a bigger Christmas Day is at war with all ministers and I say it is deeply unfair. Why? Well, because those who had 500 kuna Croatian pensions and 1000 marks then or 1000 euros from Germany got the biggest Christmas card. So we've done in good faith the exact opposite effect. Why? Because we didn't have records, no records, and no obligation to register a pension from abroad as income. She is income. There was no tax speech at all at the time, and there could be talk of tax then, because it was a better time than in 2012 when taxes were introduced on pensions from abroad. You know, Germany has introduced pensions and started charging pensions for Croatian citizens who worked in Germany in 2009 and it has been retroactively for 3 years. We could have had it if nothing else at the height of their untaxable, above their untaxable amounts that we wanted to negotiate, but we didn't. Now it's all about later brains and now you can see, now everything's come out, all of our missed chances. We didn't do it. You know, in 2005, the Republic of Slovenia began taxing the pensions of Croatian citizens paid out of Slovenia. We were all in the Parliament defending our citizens not to pay Slovenia taxes and succeed in the government's negotiation. How'd that go? I don't know. We also managed Croatian citizens who receive pensions from Slovenia by 2012 did not pay pension tax in either Slovenia or Croatia. Today, I meet them and they throw trees and stones that this is such and such a state that I don't speak these attributes etc. Today, too, we would be happy to see Slovenia taxing their pensions because it has higher untaxable amounts. But it did not, the fact that Slovenia did not, has now made Croatia. I'm not talking about the absolute fairness of the pension tax for one reason. Because the truth is somewhere in the middle because our untaxable amount of pensions relative to the countries of Europe is quite low, but in relation to the countries in the environment of BiH, Macedonia, Montenegro, Serbia is high. So we're here somewhere in the middle and there's no universal rule that would satisfy it all. But I will settle for this moment to fight for the fairness of paying off those pensions and I am glad that the ministry respected what I said on my parliamentary issue and by changing the regulations in May this year, they changed the way the tax on pensions is calculated in a way that pensioners don't have to report their pensions every month, etc. A bunch of documents than the Tax Administration gives them a solution as well as a solution to those who cumulatively have a pension below 3400 kuna that they do not have to pay any tax. But we have one more problem left that I want well and this with cumulative pension payments to set up as proposed because we have disabled pension systems in our neighborhood that are often late for retirements, so two or three pensions come in a month. That's why this is good. So what's left of the problem is paying advances on pensions that are cumulatively more than 3400 kunas, more than an untaxable amount. So, for example, a pensioner who receives two pensions totaling 3500 kuna, one is 1200 kuna, and another is 2,300 kuna if we choose that less than 1200 to pay taxes, which is 12% per month and tax taxes depending on the place of residence, is specifically that for Pula, it is 1200 kuna times 12% is equal to 144 kuna plus taxes and a cut of 7.5% is another 10.08 kuna, a total of 154,08 kuna times 12 months, it is 1848 kuna per year. Such a solution is issued and is thus paid for indemnity of taxes. However, the real difference, cumulative between our untaxable amount of 3400 and what the pensioner cumulatively receives is barely 100 kuna. And it would be fair if he paid a tax on 100 kunas because then he would pay for the same math 154 kunas a year. At this point, it must pay a higher tax, it must submit a tax application at the end of the year, i.e. make a request for a return of more taxes, and it will be returned to it. But I don't think it's right that people with such low incomes only credit the state and that we should have the same principle that we have for workers who work with two employers, so they get paid in two parts, so the same principle should apply to pensioners who receive pensions from two sources. I'm asking nicely that if it doesn't go differently, if you can make it an amendment, you can do it by modifying the Regulation, or if there's any other change over the year of this law if something happens to install it into the law. I'm leaving you at will, but I'm glad to understand what I'm saying. And so there's no big benefit because it's the end of the year, but I'm saying I'd like to start applying this criterion from January 1 next year to see the pension cumulatively, not to pay the flat-rate at one of the two possible amounts. I would like to say one more detail because I have had various interventions, various conversations with people who receive a concrete pension from Slovenia. You need to know that all of this together we could say kind of unfairly because you know what's going on? The person gets pensions and social assistance from Slovenia because according to their criteria, the pension is much less than their pension. Thank God no one pays or charges social aid taxes because all pension benefits and everything else under our laws are also exempt from tax. But I think it's time to think about revising social agreements because I think they're deeply unparavial and management is the finance minister that those of whom were previously said to come will not have paid a kuna, they will have health insurance like those of Germany, they have health insurance and all the costs of treatment they have here in Croatia, and we don't have the right to invoice their institution and costs, and I say uncovered are completely covered. You know, our people who take a pension from Germany pay their taxes to the last place they live, so it goes in favor of a place where they don't live for 15 years anymore. It is therefore worth considering revising almost all social agreements and connecting the two facts of health and pension insurance because it is not okay for someone not to win either on the bridge or on the keg, and someone gets on the bridge and on the keg. So a new justice in these relations now that we are EU members should be introduced. Let me repeat this once again, we will support these amendments and the additions of the Law with this request that I have explained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48294	Thank you. On behalf of the SDP representative club, counterpart Igor Radjenovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48295	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, at this late hour, we said a lot, and I'm going to try to cut my debate short to keep someone else's birthday from starting. I don't know who's birthday tomorrow. The changes and additions to income tax are about once a year on the subject of this Assembly. It is a very important income, a very important source of funding, but I would like to remind all of us that there is a mayor, the mayor, that it is a very important, most important source of funding for local self-government units. In particular, Article 45 of the Treaty on the The law on the financing of units of local self-government determines this tax by a common tax and the latest amendments have practically turned it into a tax ending in local self-government, in the country practically does not end anything ie. ends 15.5% of this balancing fund that the state again distributes further towards the units of local self-government. So it's an important issue when we're talking on the revenue side of how much it's collected to function for all units of local self-government from the county to the smallest municipality. And when we say it's a big burden or it's not a question of how many of our rational units are local self-government and how do we charge income tax, then how do we finance these units of local self-government? Here I have drawn the data for the 4 largest cities, for example in the structure of the city of Zagreb's income this income is almost 70%, 69.23%, and the second next city from Rijeka to Split and Osijek is about 50 % from 48 to 53 and this difference is significant and shows a certain privileged position of the city of Zagreb. 4.5 billion of the city's budget comes from taxes and income cuts, 200 to 300 million in these other three cities. But what is particularly interesting to me and what I often say to the mayors in these cities, so I'm talking about these three major cities after Zagreb's head per capital, so on the basis of this tax base they collect from 3,857 in Osijek to 5,400 in Rijeka while, for example, in Zagreb it is 8,200. Why am I saying all this? Today, it is likely that there is a reform of local self-government and funding, and then a real estate tax that I certainly support the minister in his long-standing struggle to introduce that tax. I think that for the local self-government units themselves, it would be far better to try to collect taxes by working their administrations, by working their mayors, and in this way from deploying to the citizens, and not to have around the state to wait from the state, and to always make it an aproximative division, and then often it is not just. The question is to solve income and gain, we remember that once income was shared income and gain on units of local self-government. Today, the state-owned income of the local self-government unit and the question of how much competition the two neighbouring municipalities are trying to attract an economy or not to attract or stay just to attract residents to their municipalities and to boost revenues from that side. Well, let's put it aside, let's get back to the law. We've got a few shifts from the alignment. It has been said in the introduction since the equalisation of Croatian residents and residents of the EU, we have several shifts in terms of the deadministration of the system from these pensions from abroad, the Prime Minister and my previous Mr Hrelj spoke of how much it makes it easier and work, in fact, for the pensioners themselves who do not have to meet these advances but in some way relieves the work of the Tax Administration themselves. Diplomatic and consular representations can also do so on behalf of their residents, and we also talked about avoiding double taxation. These are all measures that amend this law, which are not crucial, they are not significant, and they have been spent more time on them. What makes it a little difficult, this more in my personal name, I tried a little bit and with the Director of the Tax Administration to discuss, mandatory submission of an annual tax application for people who earn income from non-permanent work in two or more employers within one month. I understand the intensities of these amendments to the law that practically those who are not constantly employed, code... and so, but whether or not I should consider not knowing by what solution those who are constantly employed, so for example changes in the employer inside I don't know 13. 8. Stop working with one employer and switch to another at 14. 8. Within the ministries themselves, within the state administration, according to this proposal, all taxpayers, all of these individuals, the law suggests that they have to submit a criminal report whether this cumulative way of accounting for taxpayers, in fact within the tax administration itself, this could be prevented through some rule, I don't know if it's technically possible O.K., if it's not a big deal, but I say probably a few dozen tax returns of citizens who wouldn't have to teach tax returns and thus prevent tax administrations from doing so would be approved. Although this solution will be introduced through the introduction of a JOPPD which, if I am not mistaken in 2015, practically all of this will be avoided by tax returns. But I'm saying, if we can avoid it by then, that's good. Two major changes. It has been said long before me, therefore, it is taxing the application of the principle of the cash register to tax dividends and share in profits, it is said a lot of arguments why and how. The dividend is practically income for the one who owns the company. We think it's a far better solution. And basically to get out of this stalemate position and I was surprised first why such a long explanation with the law itself, I must admit I've never seen it for so long. But I am glad that the people of the Ministry of Finance have made an effort to do so and in fact have a key argument, and that is the solution of the Constitutional Court, of course, that at the end of my mind it is not that I have any effect on the decisions of our constitutional judges. But it is not worse to say that, even though we do not have a legal precedent, in the way in which it has the Anglo-Saxon right but is not burned and it is not a bad argument that, therefore, on the basis of that crisis tax, the Constitutional Court has ruled that the principle of the register is therefore the principles which are crucial in paying dividends. The best example, I say, is if we have already agreed and if I am not mistaken, Mrs Bečić and Mrs Dalic have agreed that this is a kind of income in some way, then it is best to compare the remuneration of workers who are possibly paid by one, two months late, so possibly by changing the law, you pay and pay by this principle there is no reason and the principle of justice is fully applied if so, and on the income of dividends. I don't know if it's a late hour or any other reason. I expected a little more debate about this publication of the list of employers, so those who don't pay their workers, something more than a discussion. It seems to me this way at the first time that the HDSSB proposal further strengthens this by its amendment. I don't know, let the government think we couldn't find ourselves inside the club before we could say the club's position. Personally, it seems to me that it further explains the situation, and I think that, I say on my own behalf, I might as well accept it. Although it's actually a key instinct for this list to be published. The publication of tax solutions has helped in one general transparency, the openness provided by this government. And I think she helped with a statement of social justice. Whether it helped financially, it's practically very difficult to measure but I believe the message has come clear about it and we can see it. What is a new solution that has failed all is the possibility within the meaning of this transparency and publication, so it is possible for the tax administration to also publish the names of those taxpayers who, therefore, are in accordance with Article 63. The law found income as a difference in the value of assets and evidence of an independent asset for its... When they become executives, then those names can be published in that year. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] There won't be any financial effect, I don't know if there's going to be an effect in the face of those people who didn't report taxes, so we saw a lot going on along with the fiscal register. But it's on the trail anyway, so maybe it's too heavy a word of spiritual renewal, but in any case, building a new business civil climate, civil morality and changes that... This country is therefore taxed, every tax must be paid and then income tax and that it is a prerequisite for conditio son qua non all that when we all start paying all taxes and it is just that we can also think about lowering of such taxes. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] She has shown practice here and these summer months that around the fiscal register and value added tax has shown that many have been hunting in the cloudy, so I hope that these announcements around, though there are also these people who have tried to deceive this country and still get a punishment for it, so that their name is still on the pillar of shame that it will also help. Thank you again. And of course the SDP Representatives' Club will support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48296	Thank you on behalf of the Croatian Labour Party Representatives Club, colleague Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48297	Thank you very much, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with replacements and associates and also my congratulations on birthdays, colleagues and fellow representatives, here I am, the last of which I will try to be very brief. When it comes to the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Income Tax with the Final Proposal for Law Croatian Labour Labour Labour Party supports the Law and have some minor remarks on which I will say in my speech. And we don't have this part of the dilemma at all when it comes to taxing dividends because we think dividends should be taxed. We have a certain dilemma and it's a matter of retroactive law enforcement. Because every application of retroactive law creates certain legal uncertainty and creates one particular dilemma. And I think that in legal solutions we should strive not to pass laws that will be applied retroactively because that is the essence of security in the rule of law. When it comes to the payment of private pensions, it is clear that they only make it easier for pensioners in a way that they do not have to come every month to pay taxes. In that part, it is clear that nothing important changes in the law itself, except that it is made easier and clear that it is the same acceptable solution for the Croatian Labour Party. Part of the law in which it is spoken and part of the better solutions offered that are related to those workers who work with two employers, I think that in that part should continue to look a little bit, because regardless of what they have to report yearly tax returns because the tax bill is with two employers and he is different... and at the end of the year's income then can be accurately calculated this tax. But I think that today based on the OIB, based on all the data, the Tax Administration has all the data and that these workers, because the flexibility of the workforce is, and we will have more and more, in some ways these people need to be relieved, whether after a year the Tax Administration issues them a solution that is their final tax calculation, and not that they themselves have to fill out the forms and carry them to the Tax Administration and are thus placed in a more unfavourable position than the other workers. It's kind of my thinking that in the age of technology, progress and that part of us have to strive to make life easier for people. What I will specifically look at, which is a question of publishing the list and I think it is a kind of good solution and Croatian Labourists are for publishing all those employers who do not pay workers. According to this some data that somewhere around 14,000 companies are not paid regularly, and somewhere around 2,000 companies are not paying from 6 months to over a year and we think that with this part as prescribed in the law in some way a certain part of the effect will be created that employers will avoid being published on that list, and will settle their obligations to workers. That dilemma that is present, which is also a question in the Labour Act itself, is the obligation of an employer who is prescribed by law only obliges him to pay minimum wage. What if the employer pays the minimum wage and pays the minimum wage taxes, not the full salary? It is clear from that part that the state will also be damaged by that part, will not pay its taxes and contributions and taxes in total, and these workers are then only with their lawsuits and judicial channels to make the difference between their actual salary and this minimum wage. So inside that, I think that part should also be seen through certain legal solutions if in that part and the employer does not violate certain rights and does not pay in that total salary that belongs to the workers. Clearly, it is difficult for workers when they do not receive their salary for three months, they will not find it very difficult to publish their employer who has not paid their wages in solving their life problems. So I'm going to try to give an example when it comes to payouts of salaries and weights and appeals of workers who have sent a letter to me and to all institutions, in a way they feel deceived. And I am obliged to say in this section that the workers of the Czech Republic from Bjelovar did not receive the salary for four months, that, as a daughter who was rented by Spačve from Vinkovec and over whom the pre-departure procedure was carried out, it was agreed that, in some ways, workers had not been paid, four months had not been paid, were found in a very difficult situation, that they were promised that the agreement would resolve the obligation to pay their salaries and work in advance because it was the parent's business over which the bankruptcy proceedings were carried out. In the end, it was found that the daughter company would end up in bankruptcy, and neither the Ministry of Agriculture nor the Croatian Forests that took over part of that property where they worked did in any way take over the commitment and do not sympathise with those workers which I do not think is good. When I talk about individual ministries, then that part of the relationship with workers is not good, and we say that we need to keep every job, that we need to take care of each worker, and this especially when we talk about paying each worker's wages and taxes and contributions that must be paid. It is here I wanted to show only one part of the bad example where some ministries avoid in some way, I believe that they will get to meet these workers because, as far as I have received information over this company that has no capital or has worked Malta not in the rented space, workers will get their minimum wage from the Fund to look for workers, but if they have not already, 4 months are without pay, that in that part I appeal if it comes to paying for them as soon as possible, and eventually it will come back to the burden of the state, and in some way the question could be solved that they continue to work and work because clearly neither Croatian forests nor the Ministry of Agriculture in which it is responsible, means property nothing alone because they have become the owner of that property. On this property, someone needs to work and generate income, pay these taxes. Here is what I finally wanted to say as an appeal and a bad example of not solving this issue and taking care of the workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48298	Thank you. Lastly on behalf of the promoter, Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48299	Here at the end of this debate I thank all who participated in the debate and since we have received several amendments I can say that some of them will also be accepted, but this is a proposal that goes towards the government so that after the cabinet session we will be in that section, at least this about thinking about the pensioners, as regards the publication of the list and the amendments that we have received. So I believe that we will find solutions and achieve a quite satisfactory consensus on this proposal that we have just completed the debate. A few words about payouts, especially about the Czech worker. I must say that in the pre-fashion settlement that was conducted, especially by the Ministry of Finance, quite different solutions and agreements have been signed. We still need to see if it ends up in court because the workers shouldn't have run out of wages or jobs. Such solutions have not been reached in pre-fashion, so at the Ministry of Finance we are reviewing what has happened and how we will find a way out of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48300	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48301	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Income Tax Act, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 451. The debate on the text of the law is over. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered after the deadline set out in the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament of the Amendment. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following I am giving the Rules of Procedure a vote on a proposal to discuss and decide amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please make up your mind, who's up for it? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I find that most votes, 111 votes for and 4 votes against, have decided to discuss and decide on the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I ask the applicant's representative to explain Amendment No 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48302	Thank you, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. My colleagues and colleagues. Last Thursday, a debate on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act was concluded. In that debate, the government remained in a very clear position that we believe that the dividend tax should be paid on the principle of the cash register and that means at the time when it is paid, and this was a reference point in view of the request for an assessment of the constitutionality of such a position of the Government. On Friday, the Constitutional Court ruled by not accepting the government's position on the principle of the cash register, although I note that already once in 2009 the Constitutional Court made it clear by its decision that if any income is taxed on the principle of the cash register, the crisis tax imposed, as we have introduced the dividend tax, was taxed independently when it was achieved. In view of such a decision by the Constitutional Court of Friday, the Government proposes amendments to which the law complies with the Constitutional Court's ruling, so Amendment 1 in Article 6 of the words behind the receipts made after 31 December 2000 is deleted, following the Constitutional Court's decision and Amendment 2...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48303	Excuse me Minister, let's get the amendment for the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48304	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48305	I am opening a debate on Amendment No. 1 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Here you go, dear representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48306	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. Mr. Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club warned against its counter-constitution when adopting this law. The second thing, one totally wrong assessment of the adoption of tax laws, unfortunately, has led Croatia today to the position we are and has led us to the position that the government's guidelines are the way they are. So ignores the fact that the dividend tax will in principle be paid only by Croatian entrepreneurs because of the signed international agreements on the avoidance of double taxation, disregarding the fact that most Croatian entrepreneurs who were very concerned about the preservation of jobs and the preservation of production have not paid dividends in recent years, but have left these assets as their own funds, crafts assets in the company. What happened to them? So those who acted economically were punished because if they were going to do something wrong, if they thought that dividend literally had been taken out of the company, they would have done it 4, 5 or 6 years ago when they could have done it. No, they didn't do it, but they left the profits in businesses and worked with it for the simple reason they came up with cheap crafts. So they didn't want to fool the state, they didn't get that profit, and then they were borrowing the state, and they were charging interest on it, and they were practically reducing the base of profit tax, because the regular interest rate is the cost of doing business, and in that way you're reducing the base of profit tax, but in good faith they left that profit in their businesses, they used it as a trade-off, and now what happens to them, they're being punished for it. And that's what's wrong with this law. And let's not get carried away by those who have the biggest profit in Croatia, which is primarily banking and non-banking financial institutions and other companies. Croatia has a signed agreement on avoidance of double taxation and the law regulates what tax they will pay on that dividend. Another thing, is Croatia's interest in attracting investors? I think so. Someone who wants to come to invest in Croatia will come to invest for the reason he thinks they can achieve a new market, for reasons he considers it to be a new EU member politically stable and above all to be offered legal certainty. This is the second time that one of these same political options is retroactively charging taxes. And twice it happened that the Constitutional Court's verdict was against what it was like to think. The first is the concept of protection interest which, in my opinion, was the most just, fairest way to recognise the investment of entrepreneurs in new jobs and new machines. Unfortunately for political reasons, by not doing a concrete assessment and an assessment someone has literally deleted this law with a pen's move and today Croatia has litigation that has lost where it has to pay people a great deal of interest on behalf of it and we now have what is happening to us and look at colleagues and colleagues I honestly say for a long time in this House and as a representative and as a minister for years as a minister. Don't remember that even one provision that is to say a difficult sentence and a half had an explanation on nearly 10 pages. The explanation of something that's insecure, which isn't good, and I realize that we can have different opinions and thinking, we don't have to be angry at each other or anything. But look, this is a confirmation of something that's wrong. This is a confirmation and when you look at the report on the implementation of the state budget is not a tax on profit, income from profit tax is reduced only because entrepreneurs have reinvested but unfortunately when you look at their balance sheet, then you will see what it is. The other thing that happened. At the time when this law was announced, at the time when it was said that this would happen, look at how many companies were raising loans, it was in debt at an interest rate of 8, 9, 10% depending on how anyone could get to pay for the dividend and then eventually again practically borrowed in their own company so that they could function. It's a fact and it's true and we can glare as much as we want. Croatia's dividend tax will not be fiscally helped. The Croatian budget will not be helped, but it would be much clearer if it would send a clear message that we are interested in investors who will come to Croatia, bring new technology, which will come to Croatia, which will simply help Croatian government and Croatian citizens get out of a growing recession rather than think about how we will fire a million, two or three dividend taxes. Someone who personally takes five, ten billion taxes away from me but opens 20, 30,000 jobs in Croatia, and I think we'll all be more satisfied and that should be the policy principle. So here is clearly, world-wide, completely different thinking in the business world between HDZ and the left coalition. So we are against the fact that those who create jobs, who create new values, which can only lead to the economic recovery of the Republic of Croatia to declare themselves enemies and those who want to steal something from Croatia and to take away money. I repeat, colleagues and colleagues are the biggest winners in this country: banking and non-banking financial institutions, telecommunications companies. They're the biggest winners. Croatia and their countries of origin have signed a double tax avoidance agreement and they will not pay this tax prescribed by this law but will pay taxes based on it, and this tax will pay several Croats who still have companies that do business with profits, have a certain inventivity to function in these difficult times and therefore we are against this government amendment and as we have been against the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48307	Thank you, too. Are there any other clubs? There isn't. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the proposed amendment of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Please state who's in favour? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Are there any abstentions? What's the score? I find that most of the votes of 83 votes in favour, 27 votes against and 3 abstentions were accepted Amendment No 1. The governments of the Republic of Croatia have become an integral part of the final bill. Amendment number two, respected Minister Slavko Linic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48308	I would like to thank Mr. President, the amendment to Article 8 which votes: "Extremely from Article 6 of this Act and Article 51(4). Income tax law published in National No. 177 of 2004, 73 of 2008, 80 of 2010, 114 of 2011, 22 of 2012, 144 of 2012. Where a decision on the payment of dividends and profit on the basis of a share in capital has been made in accordance with specific rules before the entry into force of this law, and it has not been paid until the date of entry into force of this law in respect of the payment of, and the dividend and share in profits, the rules which were in force on the day on which that decision was taken, as evidenced by the payer of the authentic documents shall be applied." The formulation prescribed by the Constitutional Court Decision and in accordance with the Constitutional Court, and now a very clear argument. There are two reasons why we believe that a dividend tax should be paid in Croatia. The state budget means how many participations a group of taxpayers have in the social resolutions of the social benefits of the Republic of Croatia and education, science and development fees. Yeah, that's where we differ significantly. The left coalition or coalition in power believes that the tax common should be burdened evenly, and these are constitutional principles
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48309	Your Honor, the time is unfortunately short for an explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48310	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48311	I'm opening a debate. Who's calling? The re-respected representative, Ivan Shuker, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48312	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, like I said, there's different thinking and thinking. The minister has his own, we have our own, and we have made it clear as he has expressed his right. Although we claim that's the case. However, in this second amendment, I would like to say something. Was that accidentally subdued to the Government and the Ministry of Finance or was that done on purpose? Look, here we're talking about profit, dividends, what's white, what's seen on all the portals because practically all the balances are being published. However, you have one other option how the owner of the company and shareholders can get to capital, and this is a decision at the assembly to reduce the underlying capital. Who's taxing that, Mr. Minister? In my opinion, the assembly's decision to reduce the core capital is anti-entrepreneurship and a move against the state, a move against employees. Because if someone in an economic situation such as this is difficult in Croatia makes a decision about reducing the capital of businesses, that has no fair intentions. Whoever pays the dividend, pays it 20% of the profit tax, does nothing unfair, does it according to the law. However, it is very interesting that no one has dealt with this problem. That no one has talked about this problem, and be sure that there are such things where the core capital of companies is reduced for no reason, and in any activity that may only be positive in Croatia at this time. And you've just, and it's asked me to discuss on behalf of the club, you've just mentioned that core capital of the company in your argument. So, I expected from the government that if it advocates taxing everything to prevent and this one thing that for me at these difficult times is, I don't see any reason why a company would, without justifiable reasons, reduce its core capital. A team of Mr. Ministers, colleagues and colleagues if they looked at the court register now and if they saw the assets that companies have registered in the court register then they would see that this property is far, far below its real value. Just as some of the properties may have been something at a time when the value of real estate was gold and the historical age of low interest rates may have overinflated their balance sheets. But there are far more companies that at this point have far less value of core capital than they are what most Croatian companies don't have, and that's so-called. good will or good reputation if you look at international accounting standards then you will see that it is the second or third category by which the value of a company is estimated. And watch your colleagues and colleagues if someone makes a decision to reduce the core capital of the company 10, 50, 100 million kuna he can take that money depending on the structure of ownership and look at all tax laws in the Republic and you will see that no tax law makes it taxable. Look at the National Journal, look at the solutions of high-end commercial courts, and you'll see that some companies did it this year. Thank you very much, and that is why we are also against this amendment to the government, and this amendment to the government is totally contrary to what Mr. Minister said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48313	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP club, respected representative Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48314	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, here's the unexpected, since our Rules of Procedure, unfortunately, didn't allow the Minister of Finance to explain this in more detail, so let me just say two words about this proposal. We had a dispute and Mr. Shucker may have consciously, perhaps unconsciously said that it was actually a secular question about whether the dividend tax is yes or no. And that's why we're different from where the finance minister left off. Yeah, that's what we're different about. So, in a situation where this government is doing everything but everything to help the economy, to help the economic recovery, because we all concluded that this is the only way out of the crisis and is trying as much as possible to unburden the story, and on the other hand to burden citizens with income tax with the principle of justice is the key tax that we need to see about it. This and such an economy, through income tax, therefore in labour intensive activities in all activities, we charge a 15% income tax. Not to remind you that this government has certainly lowered these lowest tax rates, so the lowest salaries since the beginning of last year are slightly more than they were before, and they have grown more. But therefore, it is burdened with rates ranging from 15% to 40%. The average income tax rate for all of us who are employed in both the public and private sectors is 32.33% if you count. And that's a burden for employers, 32 to 33% on average say payloads that employees don't see, but employers do see and it has a significant impact on their calculations. The dividends, tax on dividends know almost all the countries of Europe, they know the most competitive countries of Europe and those where they protect workers, etc. So, through profit tax 20% and dividend not by accident 12%, so close to that 32, 33% we're actually making a fair burden and making a fair relationship between the workers and the capital bearer. So, a fair contribution to the budget. The question is whether it's fair at all to call him poorer pays the same as the richer one because the dividend tax is nothing more than the income tax from the company's own. Therefore, the burden in this respect remains the same, and if we define, and you will agree, I said, in the debate on the point itself. The dividend tax is nothing more than the income of capital owners, and that income is at the same level as the tax on the income of all its employees and it is no different from the countries of Europe. The most competitive countries in the EU and Europe, and otherwise in the world, have that income and some have it at a higher level than we do. It is therefore that there is a civilizational conflict where we are on the side of the weaker in this respect which does not undermine the competition at all because I repeat such a tax exists in the countries of Europe, the countries we seek. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48315	Thank you, too. Next is the club of Croatian Labourists and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48316	Dear President of the Croatian Parliament, respected ministers with associates, deputy ministers, colleagues and colleagues. Immediately at the beginning Croatian Labourists support the taxation of dividends absolutely certainly and for this we advocate all the time because the even burden of the crisis should be distributed to all entities in society. So I'd just like to remind you that they're going to pay dividends, it's said now just before Mr. Shucker said that mostly banks aren't in that package are not telecommunications companies, but let's say the Rovinj tobacco factory, we don't have the agreement signed with them because they happen to be in Rovinj. Therefore, the income of the owner of the capital is taxed, as is said, and we are for it. However, when it is said that the dividend tax is a world-wide issue we fully agree with, then I should remind myself of the initiative a thousand times spoken from this pay phone and in this Assembly of Croatian Labourers, tax and cash transactions, evenly relieve or shift to the back of those richest, there is room for even more just to place as much burden as possible on the back of citizens, and one part of the burden can be transferred to the back of those richest. We were warning that the bad way to manage the Croatian government and bad legislation is wrong that the biggest burden of the crisis was brought to their back by those citizens who had loans in banks in Croatia not to Croatian banks, but to banks in Croatia who had foreign exchange loans, the only risk was paid by them. The banks were not involved in this risk. And it's fantastic business when you do business without any risk. Therefore, the government should also keep that in mind when talking about the world’s issue and when talking about the need to evenly burden citizens and all entities in society. My colleague said before that the government is doing everything it knows. I couldn't agree more. Given the situation in Croatian society, given the situation in the economy at the scale of the crisis, it is obvious that the Government does not know much, which is unfortunately Croatian citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48317	Thank you very much. We have a replica of the club. Here you are, dear representative Igor Radinovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48318	Thank you, Mr. President. And Mr. Vuksic said the last sentence, so I answered the line at the last minute. The government does everything it knows and says the government doesn't know much. No, the government knows a lot, and that's why it makes these moves that it does, and that's why it's to get back on the subject and free the income tax on the investment profits, so that's what I haven't even been able to say in this debate. It's the key to everything and it's also important for our public who I believe is watching this, and they know that from the other side, but sometimes it's a world-class thing that's different. So the tax on investment profits thanks to this government, which knows, is not taxing everything that is returning to production, which helps further and future production, which returns the economy is not taxing itself with the government's decisions, the government of Zoran Milanovic as president, Finance Minister Slavko Linic, who is very well aware of what he is doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48319	Thank you very much. Replicate reply, respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48320	Well, I don't think I'm being denied, I said the situation in this country proves how much the government knows. The other thing is, more and more constitutional court interventions mean that the government is wrong and normally has to recognise the Constitutional Court decisions, so it won't go against the Constitutional Court. Therefore, I am not talking about the European Commission, I am not talking about everything that is going on. The government certainly doesn't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48321	Thank you very much. Are there any more reported? There isn't. I am concluding the debate on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am voting on Amendment No. 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes of 85 votes in favour, 22 votes against and 4 abstentions were accepted by amendment number 2 of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and became an integral part of the final draft of the law. Dear Ministers of Finance, we have an amendment to the HDSSB's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48322	The government accepts the amendment of the HDSSB's Club of Representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48323	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. We also have an amendment to the HDZ Representatives Club, the respected finance ministers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48324	The government does not accept amendments to the HDZ Club of Representatives and that is because the issue of taxation of pensions from abroad has been resolved by law adopted on 1 March 2012 as one argument. Secondly, because it is against the Rules of Procedure, the amendment is outside the proposed solutions in the last amendments and additions, so it could not be submitted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48325	Thank you very much. On behalf of the promoter of the HDZ Club, Honored Representative Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48326	Thank you very much, Mr. President. If the amendment had been out of business, then the President of the Parliament and the Parliament's professional services would not have included it but would have rejected it. Only so much after the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament. So the intensity of this amendment was to correct a historical injustice. First of all, it is about pensioners, Croats who, for political reasons, went to overseas countries in the '50s and '60s. And if that were so look at a small census in '51, '61. and '71. and then you will see that in the traditional parts of Croatia and then Bosnia and Herzegovina where the majority of the Croatian population with that political emigration were literally forced to go has changed the national structure. So, these people at the end of their lives and at the end of their working lives, some of them and some of them with pretty much the property they've earned with their honest work out there, they want to go back to Croatia. But one of the big problems, one big difference between the amount of their pensions and the pensions that are in Croatia. Another thing, colleagues and colleagues would like to remind you why a different non-taxable part of Croatia's pension is from an untaxable part of the salary. With the adoption of the Income Tax Act, that relationship was 1:4 and that we stick to this relationship today, then the non-taxable salary would be practically a pension somewhere around 9600 kuna. The untaxed part of the pension at the time of the tax reform in Croatia in 93 was the reason why gross salaries were used in the former Yugoslavia and income tax was paid on the contribution to pensions and therefore such a relationship. And if such a logic had been done, we would have solved the problem of one part of the pensioners in the Republic of Croatia, on the other hand, we would have solved the problem, most of the problems and pensioners coming from overseas countries. Why do I repeat overseas countries? Because one part of the pensions coming from Western Europe is the same resolved by the Law on Avoiding Double Taxation. But this amendment of the law clearly indicates, just one sentence, please, Mr. President. About the ambiguity of the law because at the time of the submission of the annual tax returns, believe that tens of thousands of Croatian pensioners who came home from Western Europe did not know that they should submit or do not have to submit a tax application. [[Intruder: Finish.]] Please, Mr. President, let's vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48327	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement about the amendment of the HDZ Representatives' Club that the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Would you please raise your hand to decide who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes have 91 votes in favour, 18 votes against and 2 abstentions, passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Income Tax Act as proposed by the Government together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48328	Now we're going to unite the next two points. 4. Proposal for a law implementing the regulation of the European Union on European entrepreneurship funds, with the final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 448. 5. Proposal for a law implementing the Regulation of the European Union on the European Social Entrepreneurship Funds, with final draft law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 449. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Regional Development and EU Funds and the Committee on Labour, the Pension System and the Social Partnership, and you received reports at the session. On behalf of the Proposer, Minister of Finance. No, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48329	Thank you, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I thank you for uniting these two regulations that were adopted in April 2013 into the European Council. What's this about? So it looks a lot like technical law, so two regulations, 10 articles that define the area of supervision of the financial industry. It is mainly about entrepreneurship funds and social entrepreneurship funds. The main initiator of this part was to lay down by law the competent authority for the control of the implementation of the Regulation. This is HANFA, and to regulate the relevant infringement provisions and measures authorised by the competent authority to take in the event of the existence of a contrary regulation. HANFA is also responsible for coordinating and reporting to the European Commission, the European Securities and Markets Supervisory Authority and for working with supervisory authorities of other Member States, and for granting authorisation for the establishment and operation of European entrepreneurship funds and social entrepreneurship funds. As regards the regulations themselves, the aim of the entrepreneurship fund regulation is to promote growth of small and medium-sized enterprises, to improve their access funding in particular at the initial stages of their development. While the regulation on social entrepreneurship funds and project financing is aimed at achieving social objectives. In order to be able to bear the social entrepreneurship funds, at least 70% of their investment must be linked to meeting social objectives such as increasing employment and a positive impact on the labour market, contributing to social inclusion, protecting certain groups, achieving better working conditions, equal treatment, opportunities and non-discrimination, public health, security and education. The Regulation regulates uniform conditions and requirements for managers of such funds, organisation and transparency of the work of managers, and each fund must prove that a high share of investments has been spent just to support small and medium-sized enterprises on the basis of newly achieved, i.e. a high share of investments spent on projects with social objectives. European funds of entrepreneurship and social entrepreneurship are sub-classified by an alternative investment fund. It is established and managed by the Alternative Investment Funds Management Company in accordance with the provisions of the Alternative Investment Funds Act. As you know, we recently passed the Alternative Investment Funds Act, and these are two funds that actually fall under that kind of alternative investment funds. What I would like to point out is that I am this process of pre-debt settlements when they actually try to consolidate companies don't mean much unless we can get new capital that will actually give these companies that have been restructured new capital for investment and development. What is important here is to say that in the Republic of Croatia there are one forms of such a fund industry. These are the funds for economic co-operation which the Government of the Republic of Croatia in the 2013 budget increased its share of funding for such a fund industry. We talked to international financial institutions, and we said that it was actually a big problem for us when we settled the pre-profit deal that lacks that extra capital for investment. We are in talks with both the World Bank and when we were in Washington and the European Bank for the Restructuring of the EBRD, so we asked them to help us in this part of the fund industry, in fact, to organise a fund where we will actually stand on that and the state to encourage through HBOR where we are now and we are discussing with the World Bank where there is a very close implementation of a larger amount where the HBOR would be the bearer along with the business banks of such a company that would give a boost to small and medium-sized enterprises and also for these companies that have completed restructuring. The problem of capital in small and medium-sized enterprises is also being discussed in the European Commission area where EU funds are also being opened because it is also the case for the German Finance Minister's proposal where we said that we should come up with how to encourage small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, to come up with capital and actually for their development. So we hope that through the EIB's European investment funds as well as also a very important bank in which the HBOR is actually in debt, with HBOR's resources, we will also find the next year strength and opportunities to provide for the fund industry and in the budget to encourage together where the state must give a boost to this part of the fund industry. So also in this respect, we hope that some kind of fund will come out very quickly, not just the FGS, but that's where we're looking for the support of banks because it's the management of the fund industry that needs to be the manager's business that will actually, and the state will actually take one part of the risk in such a fund industry. Here, once again, I thank you for uniting these two regulations that I think are complementary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48330	Thank you very much. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP representative Lidija Bagaric. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48331	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Here, I'll be as brief as possible given the time. It is therefore the proposal for a law that allows for the implementation of two Regulations – 345 and 346/2013. The two funds, the European entrepreneurship funds and the European Social Entrepreneurship Funds are already mentioned in the European Parliament and the Council. It is therefore a matter of harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation in the field of policy and internal action of the Union, relating to the free movement of persons, services and capital. These European funds, as already mentioned by the Deputy Minister, mean foster economic growth, contribute to job creation and capital mobilisation, increase investment in R & D and encourage entrepreneurship, and all in line with the Europe 2020 Strategy. The implementation of these two Regulations provides for uniform rules and conditions for the use of the mark of a particular fund, which implies the composition of the assets and tools that can be used. Such a unique framework will strengthen investor confidence, prevent tax evasion and other possible manipulation and guarantee transparency in terms of investment policy and development objectives. The law, as stated above, provides that the competent authority of HANFA, is now required not to list individual competences. Infringement provisions involving fines ranging from 200 to 500 000 kuna for an alternative investment fund managed by a company and from 50 to 100 thousand kuna for a responsible person are also prescribed. These draft laws were conducted in public debates from 18 June to 2 July of this year and since the Republic of Croatia is obliged to allow direct application of the provisions in order to comply with its legislation with the European SDP Club will support the proposed laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48332	Thank you very much. And on behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Domagoj Milosevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48333	Good evening, Madam Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. No matter what happens now, here's half past nine, some things are still necessary and should be said. So first of all, these two laws, it's really technical stuff and details, and I don't think there's much to argue about. I also think that the regulations that speak about European funds of entrepreneurship and social entrepreneurship funds are commendable, and in this respect, the HDZ Club will also support the adoption of these two draft laws. But like I said, no matter what half nine minutes I'm gonna take the time, so I'm gonna have to figure out a few next things. Firstly, shortly after yesterday's debate and a currenter dominated by the debate on lex Perkovic and the conflict with the European Commission, it is absurd to actually talk about what we could all gain from our full membership in the EU. So, I think that everyone reasonable will agree, instead of the current government, that is, its prime minister in fact because it seems that neither the government itself nor the members of the same party agree with the prime minister in one rude and arrogant way is conflicting with the European Commission and the biggest and most important Croatian trading partner in Germany and one of the rare and large economies that still draws the entire EU forward, instead of doing so I think it would be much wiser this month that we are facing, and also this one behind us to use for the benefit of the Croatian economy, so let's say in the very things these two draft laws are talking about. Discuss in Brussels and with many Member States and in some ways try to revive the Croatian economy. Unfortunately, Minister Linic left, he didn't mind, given that he probably went somewhere to celebrate, but I will, regardless of what he did not take this opportunity here, so I'll say a few sentences. First of all, what today is plagued by Croatian entrepreneurship. So the Deputy Minister said well, and this is that these funds should actually try to save jobs and companies, especially those productive after 5 years of crisis. Unfortunately, I must conclude, therefore, the HDZ Government is the creator of ideas about economic co-operation funds, but the fact that over the past year and a half these funds of economic cooperation are actually not being used properly or almost not being used. So, first of all, the purpose for which they were founded is that new capital is invested in manufacturing companies, in preserving economic activity and the jobs of indicators does not mainly have indicators of investing wrongly. The final example is an example of the Center of the Bank. So, not only did the state participate in this rescue, but in the end that money was thrown away. Instead, it must have been smarter to use the money right in Dalekvod, which has been spoken of so much lately. So Dalekovod is a Croatian manufacturing company which is one of not many that has exports to the markets so probably the state needed to use that money to support the Dalekovod and not only the Dalekovod has there and other companies, there is also Dioki, and Gredelj and I have spoken to my colleagues in the club many times so far. And one more thing, so first of all, what needs to be determined after five years of crisis, which is that Croatian entrepreneurship is the most troubled, and unfortunately the current government is doing nothing to change that, however, I will say what I mean when I say it. So the first thing that bothers Croatian entrepreneurship is especially now that we are in the EU and in an even more serious market game, which is high interest. High interest not to repeat what counterpart Dalic was already saying and explaining today, which is high interest above all depends on the state. The path led by the current government by the economic policy that has led the Croatian credit rating to the waste level will certainly not reduce interest. Interests are more so. At the same time, while Croatia's largest entrepreneurs pay the highest in terms of income and the number of employees, 7.8 some and over 9% of EU interest are paying 2 to 3% of the interest. I don't think even to you who are possibly in any way related to the economy and the economy, entrepreneurship should not explain what the difference in interest of 5.6 percent is. The approach to the market, therefore, is evident that after five years of crisis, our Croatian small market does not guarantee the growth and development of specific production activities, and in this sense we were more talked about what the current government should do than reform the public administration, at this point I am talking first of all about economic diplomacy. Unfortunately, the project that started in 2010, which is economic diplomacy in several embassies already in 2013, probably because there was a change in government, so it had to be interrupted. So those people who had just begun to work within their mandate were then removed. A great message for those who really want to contribute to the development of economic diplomacy. I think we will agree that given the cost of special Croatian missions to the EU today, I think that, above all, these embassies should be economic exposures not only to attract foreign capital but to open those markets to Croatian entrepreneurs. Is there something going on? It's supposed to work but there's still no significant result, although exports over the past six months have fallen even compared to last year. And now I could list a lot more, and it's not really the subject of these two bill proposals, but I felt the need to mention what is in some way related to this, so I call on the government to talk to the FGS, to exploit the potential they have but, above all, in preserving jobs and in production activities, not necessarily just productive but generally in support of the economy and entrepreneurship. And on the other hand, I don't know how you're going to do it, given the negative prospects of the Croatian credit rating to try much more to reduce interest to the Croatian economy and citizens and entrepreneurs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48334	Thank you very much. Replica Hrvoje Neklic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48335	Vice-President of the Parliament, Deputy Minister. Dear fellow Milosevic, I must indeed respond to this statement of credit rating and the level of garbage that this is due to the work of this government. The credit rating on the level of garbage is the result of the work of the previous government and those from before in the last 8 years, and this government is really doing everything to get the credit rating up and to come to the level that interest will allow the interest to be the one where the capital will be quality used to enable our entrepreneurs to have cheap capital and to continue in this direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48336	The reply to the replica Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48337	I'm calling in front of everyone to tell me exactly what statistical figures are just confirming what you said. So in 2011, you have two quarters of economic growth since then, namely since you took over the government of 7 quarters you have negative. This government planned there was a Deputy Finance Minister's 2012 economic growth plan of 1.8%. How much has been achieved? Minus 2. It's the same aftermath of the former governments. We've been warning you over the past year and a half, all my colleagues on this side that you're not doing the mass of things you've decided to do, because of that, it's not guilty, no one accepts it anymore, give it more, I think it's funny to even discuss that after two years of mandate you're talking about yourself about the new government and that she's the former government. So it doesn't really impress anyone anymore, and the least credit agencies that understand that in the second year, instead of the first planned 1.8 economic growth, and now 0.7 ultimately achieve a new minus. And when you're unable to predict your own economic growth and you miss 3.4%, then it's hard for any credit rating agency in the world to trust you. But I'm still inviting you to coffee tomorrow to explain it to me exactly, and I hope you've ever had a chance to talk to credit agencies and their grades, so I'm sure you'll be able to explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48338	On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48339	Dear Madam Vice President, Deputy Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. First, I must tell my fellow Milosevic that not half the term of office is the former government's fault. Well, yes, but the entire term of office will be the fault of the last government, there's no dilemma. You can't get away from guilt, no. Why would it be strange if only half the term of office or not that half the term of office was always the former government's fault. It will extend the entire mandate there is no dilemma. We'll find everything. I'd like to discuss not going beyond the subject of agenda points and a united debate. In fact, these are technical laws that do not bring anything particularly new into the area of alternative funds because HANFA has been responsible for alternative funds so far. However, these two laws oblige our regulatory agency to report to European funds on any future projects that will be implemented in our country. I can't hide the satisfaction that even the legislation of these HANFA regulations will begin to deal with and something that hasn't been her job so far but will have to understand the social picture and social entrepreneurship and a lot of what the HANFA has so far not wanted to hear. And I hope that with a lot more caution, HANFA will approach this matter than it has done in the past because I would not like it to happen again that in this period HANFA loses 5, 6, 7 litigation as it was in the previous period. So, I think that people who should be responsible for doing work at the regulatory agency will also force this new obligation to take another approach to work. And I'll be much more pleased after they have these obligations. Because the world isn't just investment funds, just profits, just moving on the capital market, the world is also those who work for much less money, those who work in self-employment and those who do something where there's no dominant profit and high profit. Here is so much with the support of both laws, the Croatian party of pensioners will support the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48340	Thank you very much. But before I give my colleagues Domagog Milosevic my word, I will take the liberty of saying, often we and Racan's government are guilty and Matešina etc. Here you go, fellow Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48341	Well, I'll be very brief. Not a colleague of the Hrelja understood, I was actually going to say that I hope that two years of the term of office of this government is enough,... No, but yes, there's no need for four years of these results and these kinds of governments. ... [[You can't hear the intruder.]] [[The speakers speak out loud, you don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48342	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the proposals of both laws tomorrow.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48343	Final proposal of the Law implementing the EU Regulation on European Funds, entrepreneurship capital, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 448. The debate is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 117 votes, the Law implementing the regulation of the European Union on European entrepreneurship funds has been adopted, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48360	And now we're going to discuss: 6. Proposal for a Law on Leasing, first reading, P.Z. No. 459; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law apply in the adoption of this Law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Finance and the State Budget. You received the report at the session. The opening proposal will be explained by Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48361	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. The introduction of the Leasing Act would refer to the situation on the Leasing Market currently in the Republic of Croatia. So Leasing societies have significantly reduced their business activity in the beginning of the crisis. The total assets of all Leasing companies in 2009 amounted to 33.6 billion kuna in order to amount to 20.9 billion kuna at the end of 2012. It means a significant asset reduction. Currently in the Republic of Croatia, 24 Leasing companies are operating in their portfolio with around 115 thousand active Leasing contracts totalling 15.4 billion kuna. The strong impact of the financial crisis on the business of leasing companies in the Republic of Croatia is also seen in a significant number of declines in newly concluded lease agreements, their annual value in 2009 was 8.2 billion kuna, 2012. 4.8 billion kuna, in the first half of 2013. 2.5 billion kuna. When you see that leasing companies were mostly funded when you look at their vehicle portfolio, real estate business and when you see that they are capital investments, capital investments then it is also understandable that the impact of the crisis that business companies have actually changed their investment strategy and are mainly a focus to maintain liquidity and have delayed their consumption in the purchase of the vehicle. Certainly in the purchase of the vessel and in the purchase of real estate through leasing, their short pay-out period, which for 3 years to 5 years, influenced the significant reduction of assets from 33 billion to 20 billion kuna and new purchases of vehicles and real estate and vessels will be difficult to expect in this period of time. So certainly this trend of business is going to be leasing companies, unfortunately, it's going to be another time with negative rates. To see how, in 2008, in fact, when that boom was quite significant and as one of the most significant non-banking institutions, the financial institution was compared to other non-bank institutions, I will tell you that in 2009, by the size of an active teaching society, was just above the banks. So they had $33.6 billion. When you see that then the pension funds were second with 30.6, the insurance company with 27.9, the investment funds were 14.1 billion. So in non-banking, so the structure of the crisis changed, it affected the most powerfully leasing, which then had a share of 32% of the non-bank sector. Today, you have 20.9% of your leasing societies, pension funds have 56 billion kuna assets, 34.5 billion kuna insurance, investment funds 17 billion. So Leasing societies are from a stake in the non-banking part from 32 to 16% and the reason we said, since they invested in capital projects and the coming crisis and those capital projects were actually gone. The new Law on Leasing is adopted in order to further coordinate the business of leasing companies under new conditions of membership of the Republic of Croatia in the European Union and to improve existing solutions. Also, as a result of the opening of the borders of accession to the European Union, the rules of business for Leasing companies registered in the Republic of Croatia and companies registered in other Member States which may potentially operate in the territory of the Republic of Croatia, directly or through a branch, and both domestic and foreign companies may obtain the authorisation to work by HANFA and comply with the provisions of this law. Furthermore, additional requirements have been imposed on companies regarding the establishment of a risk management system means... means in the law that they must have a risk management strategy, policies and risk management measures, internal audit and internal controls, so in that part they are equated very much to banks, but the emphasis in crises is the way to manage risks. So it just strengthened to actually be because in the past law there were few provisions on how to manage risks. As new circumstances have come, we also suggest that the risk management strategy is actually defined. In addition, the provisions of the law in the control of Leasing companies conducted by HANFA have been further developed in a way that is uniform to supervisory rules for other financial market entities where HANFA has, in fact, set new rules for other entities, insurance and pension funds so that they also comply here with Leasing societies. So the surveillance is now divided into direct and indirect which has not been the case so far. The measures that HANFA may impose shall be extended and shall cover, meaning from the issuing of recommendations and notices to the management of the Leasing Society until the withdrawal of approval. So it's a lot now, so you have a few steps when you warn a certain leasing society to correct certain irregularities, not to write him straight solutions and penalties, so the recommendations go first and the warnings go, so there's a sequence that should actually be by regulators over these societies. What's important is that for the Leasing Society it's important that this law extends the subject of their business, so as to enable the rental and lease of objects returned from the Leasing Jobs which so far has not been possible. If any vessels or vehicles have returned to Leasing, they could not rent that part or rent because the law was then explicitly written that no loan could be made, and we know why that provision was actually passed. Now in this way, they are actually relieved to have these returns that they have that they can borrow very quickly and allow them to finance not only existing, but also future objects leasing. So the possibility of project financing is expanding, so they are given a wider possibility that the Leasing of companies means they can find their share on the market because it narrows down some of the vehicle financing, the financing of the vessel, etc., that they can go to some projects where they might actually find interest in the financing of certain projects, infrastructure in the first place. It is also possible that the suppliers of leasing are also natural persons, which has so far been hampered by the existing Law on Leasing. So it makes it easier for a certain part of the business that society thought made it difficult for them, especially in such a difficult situation when they fell significantly active from 33 to 20 billion. These are just one let's say small changes in order to enable them to make it easier for them to do their business not to continue that trend further. Here's my thanks for the opening part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48362	Thank you very much. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48363	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear Mr. Lalovec, here I'm going to ask you, since it's raining, there's not a lot of journalists now, I don't think there's anyone here, what in reality is going to ask you 100% tomorrow, and I'm going to ask a lot of people if this law on leasing is going to help the government get these 271 cars that they decided today at the government, is this law going to help leasing or leasing helps the law. So here's what I'm asking you right now because tomorrow you're going to be asked 100%, so answer me today, and tomorrow you can get ready for the press because these cars are really interesting, and it just came together today and this and the Leasing cars and this law. You want to be somebody's help or what?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48364	Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48365	Thank you for asking. Here's a coincidence that today it's been a matter of time before the government actually decided to actually calculate the cost of using, or rebuilding certain vehicles that you know when they expire after '98, 2000, means vehicles that are 10 and more years old to spend more on their maintenance than you pay car rental. So it's not about buying a car, it's not about having to buy a car, so it's not about the financial lease where the government then buys those vehicles, and then it has to keep them, etc., but it's about renting the same as you do any rent, so that means you get those vehicles back to suppliers, you're actually renovating the cost. Finally, you should always look at the cost of paying more maintenance of something or cost, and unfortunately the vehicles that have been purchased today are mainly obtained for the Ministry of the Interior, so these are economic vehicles and the Ministry of Justice means they are economic vehicles that help carry out their duties and the MUP to carry out its activities and the Ministry of Justice. So it's not about luxury vehicles for personal purposes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48366	Martina Dalic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48367	Comrade Lalovec, I actually have one question. You were talking about expanding and opening up new business opportunities for leasing societies. So this law abolishes the restriction that prevented them from lending. Am I okay? No, I didn't. ... Yeah, okay, so... [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Okay, thank you. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48368	Now we've solved the reply to the replica, so I'm asking the rapporteur if he wants to submit a report to the board. No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48369	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with a colleague, respected colleagues and colleagues. Here's what I have to wonder at is such a weak interest in such an interesting subject as leasing. So, leasing as a form of financing of entities in the acquisition of capital equipment, vehicles and real estate in the modern business world has been present for more than 40 years, and in Croatia only appears in the second half of the 1990s, with a very strong and dynamic growth since 2001, so that the funding by leasing becomes the most important alternative to banking lending. And then, at the end of 2006, the Law on Leasing was passed, which for the first time in Croatia fully regulates the activity of leasing. Until then, this area was not regulated by a special law. Leasing companies, as well as tax experts, warned that the adopted Leasing Act is restrictive and restricts their development. Only law-making has affected the drastic downsizing of the Leasing companies in Croatia since the law stipulates that only those companies with HANFA's approval to carry out Leasing operations can deal with. It is indicative that, just before the Law on Leasing was adopted in 2006 in Croatia, as many as 66 missing companies were registered in order to reduce their number to 58 only a month after its adoption, and by the end of 2007, that number was reduced to 26. At the moment, therefore, 25 Leasing companies are operating in Croatia. The property of these companies is worth more than 22 billion kuna, and in last 2012 leasing companies gained profits after taxing of 143 million kuna, which is a very decent result. Since the adoption of the first Law on Leasing, as I said in 2006, a series of changes have been needed to upgrade the legislative framework of the leasing market. Certainly the most important change that has occurred and which is in some way the direct cause of the adoption of this new law is the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the EU. The new law will allow Leasing companies registered in other EU member states to operate directly and directly in Croatia, either through their branches, provided they get the HANFA's consent and work license. Croatia will also be able to set foot on the market of other members of the Union and operate under the same conditions as the domestic societies. The second reason for the law is to respect the fact that the long-term recession in Croatia has financially exhausted the economy, but has also melted a significant part of the bank's profits. So, as counterpart Vuksic said, banks are not all tusts, but are getting less and less fresh, but they are still showering. In the first six months of this year compared to the same period of the previous year, bank profits decreased 40%. The risks of the banking sector are constantly increasing. Currently, banks cannot partially or fully charge 10% of loans to citizens, and they are far more at risk of financing the economy. It's almost 27% of the rent, or nominally, is about 30 billion kuna. With 15% of bad loans, Croatian banks are statistically in a similar situation as banks in neighbouring countries. So, in Serbia, we have 18.6% of non-chargeable loans, in Hungary 15.8%, in Slovenia 15.2%, in Bosnia and Herzegovina 13.5%. However, it is fortunate that, unlike these banks in neighbouring countries, our banking system is excellently capitalized, so it is easier to deal with these problems at least for now. The question is, of course, how long will that be possible? In any case, the assessment and assessment of the Government is that precisely because of these risks, the availability of bank loans will be reduced to the economy, and in such a context, of course, it is then rationally strengthening other financial instruments such as leasing and ensuring at least partial compensation of the missing capital. And according to assets like I said about what Leasing societies they have, and according to the results of these companies, that Leasing industry has potential. In addition, leasing has some advantages over bank loans, so let us point them out in this situation. So, there is no so-called "leasing" in the activities of the so-called "leasing". systemic risk. There is no need to protect dispersed private capital, as is the case with insurance companies or banks that collect deposits and work largely with other people's money. So, with the savings of citizens. In addition, in the case of operational Leasing which actually has all the characteristics of the classic lease object, the Leasing object is conducted during the course of the Leasing period in the Leasing Provider's balance sheet, which provides the Leasing user with a better liquidity. In particular, it is an attractive leasing property because it combines the advantages of ownership and rent. Therefore, the legal owner of the object leasing is the provider of leasing while the user of Leasing is using the object which is the subject of leasing. The monthly leasing war is generally lower compared to the bank loan war because the easing war is adapted to the incomes generated from the use of the easing object. Therefore, the main intensity of this legislative proposal is to strengthen the leasing industry and put its potential in the function of economic development, but at the same time further enhanced supervision of this system by the HANFA which oversees and this non-banking system prevent any impact on the Croatian financial system. The strengthening of Leasing's activities is intended to be achieved with several newspapers that will certainly be welcomed by Leasing's societies. The first newspaper is the expansion of the business of leasing companies in a way that enables them to re-rent and lease objects returned from Leasing work, which is a short time for the deputy minister to explain what has not been possible so far. A typical example of such a situation is, for example, the early termination of the lease contract due to the inability of the recipient of the Leasing to pay off the Leasing facility. The other newspaper or other conveniences adopted by the bill are to allow Leasing companies to finance future facilities, therefore not only existing as the current law now provides. This means that Leasing companies can also finance real estate in construction. One of the key newspapers of this law is to give the possibility to deal with the affairs of leasing and a natural person which has not been the case so far. So far, so far, leasing has been able to deal with exclusively companies. This expansion of the Leasing sector will be seen as an increase in the risk of operating the Leasing Company, and this was the reason why additional control procedures for Leasing companies were incorporated into the law. In this respect, more powers are given to the HANFAs, with rules for the supervision of Leasing Companies to perform HANFAs in line with the rules for other financial market entities, i.e. for pension funds, etc. The HANFA surveillance may be indirect and direct, and the measures that HANFA may impose are set out in the range from the issue of the notice to the withdrawal of work authorisation. Further requirements for the establishment of a risk management system are also put in place before Leasing societies, so they will have to have both a strategy and a policy and risk management measures, and they will also have to establish an internal audit and internal control. The law also edits the Register of Leasing Objects, Business Books and Classified Data. Therefore, the law provides for a more liberal approach to confidential data, so it will be easier for particular lying houses to obtain data related to the conduct of, for example, damage to vehicles in car accidents and the like. Finally, the Leasing Act will contribute to better regulation and increase the stability of that part of the financial market and that is, in fact, the primary reason why the SDP club supports this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48370	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48371	I'm not worried about the fate of the banks. Banks in Croatia have grown so fat that they can endure 7 dry years as a joke and will be nothing to them until the question is what those who owe the banks, which are Croatian citizens, will be seven years from now. You know very well that banks are bought for a handful of kunas and make billions. If the Croatian state had profits from banks, that they were in our possessions from the time since they were bought, we wouldn't have owed a single kuna.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48372	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48373	At the end of today's really hard day, let's do some optimism. However, we must say that this banking system of ours, because of its high capitalisation, has ultimately contributed to the fact that these difficulties that are really great are over or we will be in a position to get through something easier. So if we didn't, if we didn't have such a strong banking system, believe me, it would be much harder.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48374	I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the bill tomorrow, and tomorrow at 9.30 we will begin with the final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Co-operation. And at 12:00, we'll vote on the debated points. Have a nice evening, goodbye. Session interrupted at 21.12 p.m.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-19-0.u48375	Proposal for a Law on Leasing, First Reading, CZ No. 459. The debate is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies of the Croatian Parliament, I am voting on the following conclusion: "1. The proposal for a law on leasing is hereby adopted. 2. All objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law." I'm asking for a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 117 votes, the proposed conclusion has been reached.
