ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47213	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We continue with the 8th session debate on - Final proposal of the Law on Railways, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 436 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament are the first and second readings. We can put up with the amendments until the end of the debate. The debate on the final draft law was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Maritime Transport and Infrastructure, and you received reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Mr Zdenko Antešić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47214	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Honorable MPs and MPs. Since 1.7 years of transport, the Republic of Croatia has been an integral part of Europe and as such plays a significant role in the functioning of European and global transport flows, which in some ways also defines the development needs of the Republic of Croatia in the area of transport, primarily rail transport as one of the backbones of the country's overall economic and social progress, whose strategic goal is to connect with the European environment and fully integrate into European integration. Market orientation and competitive relations on profitability and on modernisation and development as a prerequisite for the competitiveness of rail transport are the basis for the creation of a business policy of all railways in all EU Member States, and hence the business policy of the rail system in the Republic of Croatia. European railways are constantly developing, and the borders of the countries are no longer rail borders. National rail networks shall also open to other users and become accessible to all entities meeting the prescribed requirements. The European Commission has defined guidelines for Europe as a whole and one of the key objectives is to coordinate the technical and operational activities of rail systems. The EU's policy is to target as much rail transport needs as possible to relieve road traffic and achieve as much energy savings and environmental protection as possible. With comparative advantages, which is high capacity, low energy consumption, environmental protection and a higher level of railway safety, there are also shortcomings, which are poor adaptability to changes in transport needs, closure and technological complexity of the system, inequality and technical discrepancies of rail infrastructure in different countries, high cost of transformation and construction of a single corridor railway network. The trans-European network and pan-European corridors have been set up to become more parallel traffic routes that can meet the same traffic requirements. Therefore, rail transport routes in the Republic of Croatia, along road and other modes of transport, have competition in the rail corridors of neighbouring countries and beyond. The development of rail infrastructure and the overall rail system in the Republic of Croatia must function as a sustainable and balanced country development and its effective integration into the EU common market. In view of structural and organisational changes on the railways and intensities of the Croatian Railways for equal integration on the European rail network, as well as the intention of the Republic of Croatia to become an attractive transport route for railway operators, it is necessary to adapt legislation more quickly in the field of rail transport and to adopt the prescribed standards that each country must meet on the European corridor network in order to achieve the EU's interest to open transport routes. In order to successfully integrate the Republic of Croatia into Europe, significant changes have been made so far in all aspects of economic and political life and in this light and in the area of rail transport. The process of modernisation and restructuring of the Croatian Railways and the implementation of significant structural changes to their training for competitiveness in the transport market has already started in 2001 with the signing of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement between the Republic of Croatia and the EU, which also formally begins activities to bring domestic legislation into line with the EU acquis in line with the obligations made under this Agreement. The first step in the process was the adoption of the Law on Railways in 2003 with additions in 2004, 2005, 2008, 2008, and in 2009, whose application began in 2006 and which the implementation of the first package of the EU Directive created the basis for the further process of harmonisation of domestic legislation and the creation of an institutional framework in the area of railways or the restructuring of the rail system in the Republic of Croatia. The basic principle of this law was the establishment of a rail system on the basis of the separation of rail infrastructure and rail transport and the creation of a precondition for the operation of rail transport in the Republic of Croatia on market grounds as a competitive partner in the European rail transport market. Today's current Law on Railways is based on secondary sources of EU law, which have been gradually transposed into domestic legislation and that implementation of Council Directive 91/440 of 29 July 1991 on the development of railway communities. Council Directive 95/18 of 19 June 1995 on the issue of licences to railway undertakings, then Directive 2001/14 of the EU Parliament and of the Council of 26 February 2001 on the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity and the collection of charges for the use of railway infrastructure. The current Directives of the 1st Railway Package have been substantially amended by Amendments and Supplements and, in view of the need for further amendments and clarity, it was necessary to connect them to a single act which was made by the adoption of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. 2012/34 of 21 November 2012 on the establishment of a single European railway area on the establishment of a single railway area, which is uniquely governed by the European Union rail transport area. In line with the above, it is necessary to adopt a new Law on Railways as a significant step towards the liberalisation of the rail market in the Republic of Croatia. The adoption of the Law on Railways aims to systematically and fully regulate the area of the railway system in the Republic of Croatia in line with the expression of European legislation and the conditions governing the competitive market for European Union rail services. The adoption of this Act will create legislative, institutional and functional assumptions for the harmonisation and harmonisation of the organisational and technical structure of rail transport and rail systems as a whole in the Republic of Croatia with secondary legal regulations of the European Union. To regulate the area of rail transport and to make it easier for the Republic of Croatia to access the European Union rail transport services market. And that is by enabling specific operational rules that bring infrastructure managers in line with those in third countries and fair competition between railway undertakings. Furthermore, by enabling independent operators to behave in business and adapt to market needs, which will make rail transport competitive compared with other modes of transport. Then, by separating transport services from infrastructure management through separate management and separate business books. Following the application of the principle of free, provision of services, then after consulting the infrastructure manager by harmonising the rules of collection and compensation for the use of land infrastructure by the carrier in a non-discriminatory manner. By enabling applicants to express their views on the business plan regarding the use and development of infrastructure. By creating assumptions that infrastructure managers on industrial track and secondary trackways which are not part of rail infrastructure should not be subject to the obligations of infrastructure managers. However, they need to be guaranteed a non-discriminatory approach regardless of the ownership of secondary blocks when necessary to achieve access to service facilities. And in the case where it is necessary to perform transport services or when they serve or could serve more than one user. Then by enabling the cost of infrastructure to be covered and in other ways than direct state financing. By detaching transport services from service facilities management for competition and non-discriminatory access to services. Facilitating cross-border agreements of mutual access to the railway market. In particular, the Law defines the relations between infrastructure managers and railway undertakings through the construction and adoption of the timetable and their contractual relations, all with the aim of non-discriminatory access to railway infrastructure. For the first time, it defines the possibility of leased rail infrastructure by other legal entities that are not railway undertakings, which will ultimately allow for an increase in transport. For the first time, it introduces a regulation of access for railway undertakings to terminals and sea and river ports. Transport operators and infrastructure managers are bound to operate in accordance with market principles and the principle of freedom to provide services applies and for infrastructure managers is defined by the way in which they charge their services through basic and additional packages. A clearer definition is made of the procedure for the adoption and publication of the Network Report, which is also the basic document of the supply of railway infrastructure and capacity allocation. They shall be subject to at-hock requirements for the allocation of infrastructure facilities. The power to take down public goods status related to the approval of the Parliament, from the Parliament to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, is changed. The legal basis for further improvement of the railway market regulator is hereby opened and competence is transferred for the implementation of Regulation No 1371/2007 of the European Community on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport. The provisions of Articles 13, 15, 16, 17, 18, 25 and 28 of the Regulation on the rights and obligations of passengers in rail transport shall not apply from 31 December, shall not apply until 31 December 2014, with the possibility of extending the application of which the Minister decides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47215	Thank you. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. Thank you. I'm opening a debate. We'll discuss the clubs first. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Croatian Labour Party, Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47216	... A respected deputy with an associate. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Not long ago, Prime Minister Milanovic called some MPs an elemental disaster. If something in Croatia is a fundamental disaster, then it is this tsunami of legal proposals that has recently come from the government to this Assembly. And one of these basic disasters is this Law. This law is not only my elemental disaster but also the law of dangerous intentions. I'm going to remind you a little bit during this country that it's been going on for the last 10 years, as has been the legislation regarding the Croatian Railways themselves. Let me remind you that in 2005, a law on the division of HZ was passed on four companies, then HZ-Walk trains, HZ-Infrastructure, HZ-Putnik and HZ-Cargo. That is when this is explained by the European Union directive as a commitment to ours, we must adapt and do so. The truth, however, has not long been confirmed by the ministry's board that the directive did not impose it at all. The directive imposed only financial division, but they could still be one legal entity. What did we get as a consequence of that? Those who know better about labour legislation know that each company that has over 200 employees must have its own work protection service, its own fire protection service, so we have now received four job protection services, four fire protection services, four personnel or human resources services, four salary accounting services, four procurement services. Frankly, the number of employees, the number of perpetrators did not increase with this, but the number of superiors increased drastically. Any communication between those two, any two legal entities within the system, has gone through a radical way, has brought a tremendous amount of trouble into the system. But obviously we had nothing to do with it, which is why someone pushed it through, and no one ever answered for it. It's not clear to me, but what's there. It continued in that direction, so last year we brought changes to the law in a really disastrous way, we changed only one article and the rest of the law remained the same and it even turned out that the law came into force in 2006, and last year we changed it. In this case, when the debate was held, both I as an individual and colleagues from the Croatian Labourists warned that this law was actually only a legal basis for the privatisation of HZ, i.e. parts of HZ. And that's when this House said: I want to correct my colleague Novak's claim, it's completely incorrect and false for the government to sell parts of Croatian railways. Here is the chairman, Vice-President Dragica Zgrebec told me to speak false and inaccuracy, but yesterday the finance minister said in a statement without twisting HZ-Cargo goes for sale. The same is said here last year, our apologists of the past who blindly followed the failed policy that led to the crisis at Europe level, neoliberalism, who declared that the state is an inefficient master and that it must simply get rid of everything, that is to say everything privatised, while at the same time not only in Germany but also in France, and thank God the situation has changed in its course. The French are neither German railways privatized, the French railways are still part of their national pride. This was said by distinguished representative Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, and now you assess who was right then and who warned what would happen to us. And what did that last division bring us? Well, for those of you who know, and I believe everyone knows that when you have two legal entities, you can't give each other your property, it doesn't make sense after all. So we now have a situation for the fast train to Split, due to the increased frequency of passengers to be added one car and the same train from Split to Zagreb should be shipped. But now that locomotive is no longer able to pull that train, there is simply no power. In this same Split we have a locomotive which is of freight transport, but it is not used to transport a passenger train. Then we're ordering another one that comes back from Ogulin, and it couldn't have been easy before because there's no locomotive, we can't send something we don't have. Until that locomotive gets to the bottom of what's the cost. Who was it in the interest of whom we did it for, for whom, for whose interests? And then you hear yesterday's statement let them share what they've earned. But also remember that in a political decision, the same Cargo that's on the air today, which was said to be going for sale, had to buy a colossum from the DEOKI. The colossium, meanwhile, has brought so much revenue that it's unbelievable. I don't think anyone who works there knows him anymore, can't find him how much he's grown in grass, how inefficient, how unusable he is. And let them share what they have earned. Politics makes decisions, but the consequences will only be for workers. We have another relationship inside that entire system. The cargo transport has 25 electric locomotives. You are currently in function 12. 13 fell out of traffic because the river rail did not return the mules that were taken down for what reasons. The mistletoe is one of the simplest devices that greases the rail, and thus preserves both the rail and the bandit or the wheel as you please. Because of the increased consumption of 13 locomotives, it's off-duty. No one in the infrastructure will answer for it because there's no need, that's their will, and that's why we have to hire diesel locomotives. Your consumption ratio is 1:7. So when you invest one kuna for an electric tow 7 kuna goes for diesel or 6 liters per kilometer if you're comfortable with it. There is also damage to HZ Infrastructure and because their tracks are being used but hastily, however, this is obviously not a problem for anyone. And we still have another interesting case of power recovery. Those who know the system know about what it means to recapture electricity. It's when the train brakes, it doesn't use brakes, it puts electric motors in the function of the generator. So it produces electricity and saves on braked devices. We have this possibility in Croatia, but we do not use it. Why aren't we using it? Very interesting. 85 million kuna at the annual level of HZ passenger and HZ cargo pay for electricity from the base tow trains plus VAT. That means somewhere around 107 million kuna. The re-occupation has shown itself in the European countries using this machine 2/3 is returning. So, we don't save 70 million kunas, we don't spend electricity, but we obviously don't need that because we have a surplus. The thing is, however, that HZ infrastructure is a supplier of electricity and is not a buyer. The buyer is HH passenger and HH cargo and they simply can't influence it, and these are not in the interest. So whose are they? I find that incomprehensible. However, in Article 25 of this proposal, the legislator regulated the possibility that re-upperation would be used in the future depending on the needs of the market. You know what that means in translation? If DB comes, DB cargo of the German railroad, if the OBB of the Austrians comes and says I will, he'll have it. But when it comes to us, it doesn't matter. Now I'm asking you if it really doesn't matter 70 million kunas we just throw electricity, literally throw it away. I don't know, though, I'm a little emotional, not a little bit but a lot emotionally connected to the railroads, so this situation hurts even more. Well, since I've mentioned re-upperation, let's say Austria's example. Austrians add an additional locomotive to the train, not with the basis that it is necessary to pull, but to produce electricity, while not spending brakes. So, double savings. If it's normal for one Austrian, one Swiss, I really don't understand what we're for. That's exactly what drunk billionaires say. We don't care, we have as much as we need, so we can work with whatever we want. There is already a river track when I mentioned it we have along the station Fužine there is one bridge 35 m, the length of the bridge is called Lichanka and on that bridge there is a load of 20 tonnes, the load capacity of the bridge is 20 tonnes... Over that bridge, the German locomotives can't get in the way because their axle pressure is 22 and a half tons. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We do the whole railroad for 22 and a half tons, but we don't do this until they do, and now we have an opportunity to rent their locomotives, but what it's worth to us when they can't get through. Well, whoever we're lying to, I mean, it's a fact. I would also mention the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, which consciously shuts down important things and works to destroy our operators, our carriers. I find that incomprehensible. Maybe they're not even aware of what they're doing, but one thing is certain by their inaction with what counterpart Jelash said yesterday on a completely different subject, but by their inaction they've done a lot for the destruction of our national carriers. Since I still have a little time left, but I've come forward and I'm just going to point out that I've made five amendments. What I'm talking about in these amendments is mostly all about the delegation of powers from the Parliament to the government. For what? There's no need. You have an absolute majority, you can do whatever you want. Why do you need some other things even removed from the public so that someone doesn't happen to hear that happening, power comes from the government. But for the first time we introduce, for the first time since Croatia's state, we are introducing the possibility of partial infrastructure management. This means that the Istrian railways can be one operator, the railways of Slavonia another operator, but the railways around the city of Zagreb can be obtained by a third operator, i.e. the infrastructure manager, I apologize. So, it can happen to us that what's worth being singled out, it'll be private and we'll give it to someone and then we'll talk they can't from their own, they're not profitable, they can't make money, they don't need it. And before that, we shall set aside what they earn. Now, according to the new government, the public good will be lifted. Is it true that Vinkovci freighter is already scheduled for the abolition of public goods status and the creation of a new business zone? I don't know if it's in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I honestly repeat this law is a law of dangerous intent for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47217	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47218	Dear colleague Novak, you said that everything that happens around the Croatian railways is incomprehensible to you. Let's say the Swiss and Austrians are saving, why is that incomprehensible to you? They're poor, they have to save. We're rich, we're ruined. We, like you said 70 million kunas of unnecessary throw. Watch out, 70 million kuna. Ask yourself how many kindergartens it is, how many schools it is, how many buses it is to transport children to schools, how much of it can improve the situation in hospitals. There's only one segment, a small segment of 70 million kuna. It's a waste of unnecessary electricity. Like 25 locomotives 13 out of the drive because of some small problems that can be solved, no one cares. That's huge. If only you were on the items that you listed today, if you saw how much savings can be made, how much money is thrown, so it's embarrassing. A debt-stricken country, a country where citizens dig through garbage cans, behaves like a drunk millionaire. I believe all of this is what you said because you're an expert in this area, if it's incomprehensible to you that we're the only ones who listen to it and who've read it a hundred times that Cargo had to buy a colossum from DIOKI, but no one has ever explained why it was meant to be, which is why the money was put out for it, which is why and what is now the function of that track? What's going to happen to that? What happens to the people who let 13 locomotives out of service? What happens to people, what kind of controllers, who put them in that place?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47219	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47220	Thank you very much. A colleague in one thing you didn't understand, it's not a tiny problem at all, these 13 locomotives because they're driving pedestals that are extremely expensive and hard to get. The damage that was done on that part, but also on the tracks is extremely large and is not negligible at all. But I can't even say investment with an extremely small one because it's not investment if the worker you've got is asking him to do his job, to put the mule back on the rails. It's incomprehensible to me. However, all these foreign locomotives have lubes installed on them so they do not represent a problem, but all the wagons behind that train continue to haply. Why? Why? I don't get it. But you've reminded me of one more part of this law. For 30 years I have worked in the Croatian Railways system and I must admit that only in recent times have certain specific expressions that have started to appear with us, let's say, cabotage. Kabotage is a familiar term for all of us, but it's not a common expression on the railroad. I suppose you've all heard about the loco-carriage and always been used on the train loco-carriage, but it comes to me now, I don't mind but it doesn't sound to me. You know, it's like telling a sailor to put something on the bow of a train.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47221	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47222	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear colleague Novak, you have stated in your presentation of a number of illogicalities in the HH system, disorganization in the system. You also mentioned a number of locomotives that don't work, illogicality in the traffic of passenger traffic, etc., etc. But you specifically pointed out one illogicality, with the right, relating to the sale of electricity by HZ, or the manager of the railway infrastructure, to railway carriers. And you said that the infrastructure manager has no interest, although he should because one and the other and the third and fourth companies are owned by the state and should have the highest interest in saving in that segment of traffic. But I wonder isn't this one, isn't this law when it's just talking about the infrastructure manager who buys electricity and then distributes any HZ Cargo, any passenger transport, any towing I don't know who it's all about, is it all in collage with the Electricity Market Act? In fact, we've brought here in this House the Electricity Market Act and we've prescribed conditions for who can distribute. Is the HZ manager based on this law a licensed company that can sell and distribute electricity? Will this law come into conflict with the directive that we have aligned with the third energy package that we have just gone after to determine who is the licensed electricity company? I don't think HH is, and that's exactly how we regulate it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47223	Replication response, Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47224	I have to admit that I don't know the answer to your question and I'm not quite sure what's right in this case and what if we were to say strictly legally, but surely one thing is, if they come in, if I don't know any carrier outside, they bring their locomotive, they all have counters, let's just say so simply the energy counter and the energy counter returned. Don't be surprised if we pay them. It's gonna be a paradox, we pay for their electricity.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47225	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47226	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear Sir Deputy with an associate, dear colleagues and colleagues. Even the HDZ club on the trail of what the Croatian Labour Club said cannot support such a bill on railways. We believe that this law does not meet the challenges of Croatia's full membership in the EU at the moment of Croatia's accession to full membership, which are in the entire rail system in Croatia and in the section relating to rail infrastructure and when it comes to rail carriers, because the dubiosis has been created for many years, and I believe that not only in the assessment of the situation, it is missed that all the dubiosiss that are in the railway system but also in this regulatory part of the law, we hold that there is no way to respond to the challenge that before the Croatian railway undertakings and also the railway infrastructure manager sets the fact that the railway market is this law, and that Croatia's accession to full membership in the EU has been practically enabled, liberalised by all European carriers. In this regard, we believe that railway undertakings are not ready, are not restructured to this challenge that brings the free market for rail transport in Croatia. And the fact is that in the past 10 years, the Republic of Croatia has invested significant funds in road infrastructure and expected that this Croatian Parliament had already adopted the Strategy for the Development of Railway Infrastructure in Croatia, which would have been the basis for new investment in the railway system, and not so practically that one abandoned railway system in the first row and part of the railway infrastructure would simply enter with such a system in the EU, and that we did not make significant changes primarily on the 5B corridor from Budapest through Zagreb to Rijeka, where we would at least strengthen the position of Croatian ports on the one hand, and on the other hand we have strengthened the position of Croatian railway infrastructure. In fact, the fact is that rail transport is cheaper, more competitive, more cost-effective, more environmentally-acceptable compared to road traffic, and that it is simply a national economy that could be competitive in these difficult times of crisis that must pay more attention to the construction of the rail system, rather than reducing by a billion kuna per year through budgets. We believe that this law, given its importance, should have gone beyond a longer quality public debate, that it had absolutely not caused in the Croatian public attention to the importance of regulating this most important vision and segment of traffic in the Republic of Croatia that I had not heard of it that even among all the stakeholders in the railway system, it was a particular attention, attention and we simply came with it in an emergency procedure, we bring it to a shortcut, and we know what it means for the Croatian railway and we know what it means for the Croatian economy and the least we could expect, and that is that the government has implemented this law in normal and regular procedure where we could be able to demonstrate where we could give suggestions of objections in the first reading, where we could have a quality impact on the amendment of the law itself. With this approach to the urgent adoption of this law, it seems to me that we are going towards further marginalisation of the Croatian Parliament and that everything we have established by adopting the Rules of Procedure on the work of the Croatian Parliament where the Croatian Parliament has practically become a department of legislation of the Croatian Government whose objections are accepted only if they refer to the normative regulation of the law, and the remarks, amendments that go to the scale of the law itself, are generally rejected and not discussed. Namely, why do I believe that this law has led to further marginalisation of the Croatian Parliament? This was also mentioned earlier by counterpart Novak, so Article 8 of the law stipulates that the three basic documents governing the Croatian railway are. The first and basic document is a national railway infrastructure programme which should represent a strategic document for the railway in Croatia and which is carried out for a period of five years. So this document is not adopted by the parliament, but adopted by the government. And 15 days ago, we discussed another strategy in the Croatian Parliament, the State Property Management Strategy, which is shorter than 3.5 years, and this strategy was adopted by the Croatian Parliament. A strategy, that is, what this law calls the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure by the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The long-term document for the development of railway infrastructure is therefore not adopted by the Croatian Parliament. Another document stemming from this strategy is the medium-term construction plan of railway infrastructure and the plan is not brought by the government either. The plan shall be adopted by the infrastructure manager with the consent of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and with the consent of the Ministry of Finance. So a medium-term document for which it would also be because I assume it is brought for the term of office of a government he should also come to the Croatian Parliament and not even, according to this Law, not by the government, but by the manager of the railway infrastructure. And clearly at the end of the annual construction plan pursuant to this Act, Article 8 again brings the manager of railway infrastructure but this time only with the consent of the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure. So it seems clear to me that the most important strategic documents are brought outside the eyes of clarity, are brought outside the Croatian Parliament. And how financially one programme will seek, a national joint infrastructure programme that will entail significant investments of several billion euros, is being taken beyond reach, beyond the reach of this House. Another thing that also makes it impossible for us to accept such a legal solution is the fact that it is quite clear that Croatia needs to open its market to European carriers because we are in the European Union system. And there's one obligation that we've taken long ago, and now we're clearly working on this law. But it is unacceptable for us that this Law does not define ways to strengthen and restructure, improve the situation for railways that will compete with strong European carriers. So then the situation that Mr. Novak was saying just before, so for example HZ CARGO, 15 months ago in April of last year will be forced to buy for the purpose of resuscitating DIOKI, probably to pay salaries to the employees of DIOKI, which I think was a noble government decision just not in the way HZ CARGA. If, the government wanted to go to DIOKI's recovery, if it wanted to receive salaries to DIOKI, then it should have done so in another way rather than forcing one other state-owned company such as HZ CARGO to be in debt to 15 million kuna, it would have to raise the credit to pay off one, one, one, a certain number of colossals on the Žitnjak. Which the colossians are not in office, they should not have had CARGO and, by the way, be told by this Law whether HZ CARGO may and may be the manager of these colossals. Or, if they will and may be, they will have to be used under the same conditions as other transporters in the rail market libularisation system. Therefore, only forced HZ CARGO to go into credit, to be further in charge, to be financially weakened, to end up on my knees,... before the bankruptcy. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that exactly the finance minister tells us that now with HZ CARGO we will go to further privatisation. The question is whether this was a setup and the question is whether they will be interested in privatising for the purchase of HZ CARGO at the moment when he is financially in a very difficult situation and has very interested other railway operators who can come to the Croatian market without taking or becoming owners of HZ CARG. I therefore believe that, with this move that we have practically thrown one of the important railway undertakings on our knees, we have shown that we are not systematically approaching the solution of the preparation of railway undertakings for this future competition in the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, speaking of this liberalisation, it is clear that the competition will take place in corridors where rail infrastructure is in a relatively better condition than on some local, regional, small railways. And it is the railway operators, or railway undertakings, who make 60% of their revenues on those corridors. So 60% of the revenues that carriers, railway undertakings in Croatia make in corridors where the biggest competition will be played and where I fear they are not ready to go to normal competition with strong carriers and will be left without that amount. And then this Law speaks in its opening, state-of-the-art assessment that for its realization, implementation will not require additional funds in the budget of the Republic of Croatia. I think it will very much be needed because now until the status of the railway undertakings is resolved it will be necessary to allocate funds in such a way that at all one railway carrier was on the passenger transport, whether he was CARGO, he was another railway carrier. Therefore, we did not answer the question of what will happen to Croatian carriers when the liberalised railway market remains without 60 or 50% of the total. And the government says at the same time it says that for the realisation of this law, its implementation will not require additional, additional resources. When we discussed the second Law on Railways a few days ago, MP Shuker said that in the process when we discussed the World Bank's loan to help Croatian railways to restructure and develop the programme, the employment rate of revenues in Croatian railways was 1:2.85. Which means that a kuna that Croatian railways receive in their business so that they can survive on the market from the state budget is set aside 2.85 kuna. And for a long time, we have allocated about 3 billion, 2 billion, and 900 to the 2013 budget for the functioning of that system, just one billion and 300 million kuna. So for a billion and 600 million kuna, we think less of the funds placed on the Croatian railways that they will be able to oppose the European market that is of 1. 7th and the Croatian market that they will be able to oppose strong, strong, strong and strong railway undertakings who will come here to the Republic of Croatia without additional funds as it says in this Act. So we hold that in that part too, and in that part it is very difficult to accept such provisions of the Law which, such a law that does not correspond in the way of consolidation, restructuring, the preparation of carriers for this competition that awaits us. And the question arises if we don't secure additional funds and the carriers are left without those revenues that have exactly been made to them on corridors where there will now be a bigger competition. How, then, they will be able to serve these other railway lines that are less interesting, for which they will not be so much, at least I think, and I would like to be wrong, for which there will be no such interest from other operators and, in practice, given their necessity to carry out that kind of traffic will be forced and they will carry out that traffic. The question arises whether certain local lines will be abolished, whether further suspension will take place, who will put an end to it, and whether or not the criteria have been put in place as well as how that line will be abolished if it does occur. And that doubt I mentioned earlier, I don't know, I'm not sure, and I'd like the government representatives to answer us if it's possible, given the new legislation that we've adopted in the section relating to the Energy Markets Act, is it possible that this kind of supply of electricity goes through the Railway Infrastructure Manager since it's not licensed to distribute electricity? He is a buyer of electricity, but not only is the buyer who uses that electricity for his own service but he is also a distributor of railways. The open question is whether it is in conflict with the Electricity Market Act so that rail traffic in the Republic of Croatia can be carried out in this way and whether even this law needed to be amended and harmonised in another way so that such an opportunity could be given and allowed to the Croatian or the infrastructure manager. Here are the reasons and others, the HDZ Club cannot support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47227	Tomislav Klaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47228	The Honorable Chairman, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. I also support the Labour Club and your exposure to the urgency of passing this law. In the past 13-14 years, the railway has been systematically restructured, systemically renewed, decisions are systematically made that destroy the railway and which are the worst threat to safety. The railway is now particularly a river track brought into such a situation, that people must know that they are trafficling in winter conditions on 22-23 mills of railways, one property of a locomotive, that the station has run out of staff, that train traffic controllers must unbutton, button locomotives, carry final signals, so that the tracks are not maintained. There's no more pollinating with chemical agents so it doesn't come to the healing of the spring machine. Now the question of transport power is all these railways with all the dangers of rail transport. Here's the government's decision yesterday, the town of Bakar gets another free zone of over 350,000 square meters of Rijeka's port in its own space, transportation power, number of locomotives, all those who will come and take over the transport services with the staff we have, with HZ Cargo and this section where it's spoken in the safety law. So the railroad as little as the company has so much development, it seems to me that it's a rule 31 that has defined all the measures taken in the event of any accident, emergency or impediment at a standstill, the functioning of rail traffic. Such a law concerning such an important issue, such a huge infrastructure and such a great wealth of the Republic of Croatia does not deserve an urgent procedure, deserves a broad and large public debate, especially about considering the costs that will result from all this.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47229	Thank you. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47230	Thank you, Madam Vice President. When you mention the Rijeka swimming pool, when you mention the Rijeka port and clearly in this context, you certainly assume the development of Rijeka's port of construction of the railway line from Rijeka towards Budapest. You know that over 10 years ago, Rijeka... project, a project funded by the World Bank’s over 250m euros, which should only be invested in the port infrastructure in Luci Rijeka and two days ago, a refurbished container terminal of Brajdica was opened that could enable along with an existing terminal somewhere around 600,000 containers. But it is in vain to invest in port infrastructure when it is simply not possible from that port container that would come and come to that terminal when it is not possible to distribute them towards Central and SEE Europe. And I said, for 10 years, it takes the realization of this project in this port sector, and I can't understand that this government has for the past two years taken responsibility for the situation in the Republic of Croatia, and knowing that, at the end of the day, the realisation of Luke Rijeka has not been invested in that railway, that no work has already started in certain directions. And I'm not saying that, on several occasions I've criticised the County of the coastal-goran, and you're coming right from that county, which we've waited for for a long time to change the county's spatial plan, to define the route in the coastal-goran County, so that at least in one part you can approach the building permit in these directions. Therefore, there is a lot of uncertainty about rail infrastructure, when it comes to construction of railway lines, especially those of important corridors such as Corridor 5B.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47231	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47232	Dear counterpart Bacic, counterpart Novak just said it was a law of dangerous intent. I'd say, and you've spread a nettle of that law like Mr. Novak, he's started you continue that, it's actually the law of clear intent, of dangerous consequences. Exactly what you said about the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure not being brought by the Croatian Parliament, brought by the Government. And the other two programs don't even bring in government, they bring in someone else under government. So everything that's brought here needs to be out of the public's sight, it needs to be legalized, and then it's done in silence. And then tomorrow we'll be talking about monetizing the railroad, now we'll be monetizing the roads, and now imagine monetizing the roads for 50 years, the tracks for 50 years, and at one point the railways towards Rijeka will be repaired, the roads will be repaired, it looks like we'll be on foot, then we'll just probably fly by airplanes. All we have is sold or concessions, and so the people don't understand what they're saying will be monetized, so someone thinks such money will fly to Croatia so that this really will be the consequences very difficult for Croatia especially for the next 50 years. But what you mentioned at the beginning of your debate for decades was nothing invested in the railroad, for decades there were no clear intentions of what with the railroad. Now they're clear intentions. We're not capable of operating the railroads. The necessary HZ cargo will go into privatisation, and then part by part will be privatised, although the Kukuriku coalition said the infrastructure will not be privatised. They will, everything will be privatized.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47233	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47234	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Comrade Vuksic, you're right. At least two of these three documents you mentioned and which and which I have given in my presentation should be brought by the Croatian Parliament. If something should be brought by the Croatian Parliament, then it is a strategy for the development of rail transport, rail infrastructure in the Republic of Croatia. Here, in a certain way, it tries to imply that there is a Transport Strategy of the Republic of Croatia, so what will Croatian representatives discuss when they discussed the concepts 16 years ago. '98. For years we have brought this strategy and now we will no longer discuss it and it is like now a fundamental document that will allow the government to pass this Parliament to bring a new strategy. They called it an interesting and interesting National Programme for the Development of Railway Infrastructure, so let it be brought out of the public eye outside of this assembly. And I say that the programme and the medium-term programme should be adopted by the Croatian Parliament. In fact, I can't even understand that the government would bring in one long-term document, which is brought in for a period of 5 years, which must contain both holders and deadlines and financial resources that the government is able to assume responsibility. I don't know if it's beyond her powers, beyond her reach to determine the financial resources that will be spent even after her term of office. And somehow, I would accept the mid-term program if it was in the government's term. But one document that crosses the mandate of one government, which may be to edit two or three mandates, so neither can the Croatian public know about them through this assembly. This is incomprehensible to me, and for this reason I said that this is the further marginalisation of the Parliament which is on the trail of that Rules of Procedure which you spoke about on behalf of the club when we adopted this Rules of Procedure in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47235	Young Nova, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47236	Thank you very much. Comrade Bačić, you have rightly warned about the problem of the national programme but the name of the national programme is already speaking enough and this is the most body in this country. Well, isn't it logical? It's a national program that brings only Parliament. On the other hand, you have one paradox. The national programme shall be bound by infrastructure managers and the infrastructure manager shall enter into a five-year contract that is responsible for the construction. What kind of railroad construction for five years? I mean it's, it can be written by someone who doesn't really understand that problem. But I must mention, react to another part of your exposure when you mentioned that the income on corridors is about 60% of the total income of our carriers. Since the liberalisation of transport has taken effect, why don't you tell me what interest some foreign operator has to buy our HZ Cargo? 100 new cars that we don't maintain because we're destroying the maintenance workshops systematically, the locomotives that are more or less all ready to be cashed out. The only thing that's interesting would possibly be some infrastructure facility that's the type of industrial colossals and stuff. I don't see any other logic. I know the Romanians are pushing, and their government is pushing their cargo transport into privatisation by force, but we saw how it went and now it's gone long, I think Bulgarians are talking about electricity. So I can't really figure out these motives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47237	Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47238	Comrade Novak, you're right when you talk about that national program and its name. We have often said here in this assembly that for the first 10 years of the 21st century it was dominantly determined by the strong construction of road infrastructure, and there is indeed one top level even in European frameworks, and then we go with these roads to monetize and leave to someone else something that is only in Croatia that I talk about many times at one European level. Then we expected that this government would now mark this second decade by building railway infrastructure, and we are here at the end of the third year of that decade and we do not have a programme yet, we do not have a strategy yet, we do not have a medium-term programme yet, we have no plans as well as what to build. And the third thing you asked me is who's gonna buy it and if someone's gonna be interested in buying HZ Cargo. Well, I don't think he'll be interested in the operation of that system. Maybe he'll be interested in the property HZ Cargo has. And this government you know well over the past year with its way of managing HZ Cargom has made it possible for HZ Cargo to cut his income in half in half for almost a year, and it is clear that it is not in that system or invested, but on the other hand, you said, too, it is imposed on that same system that is on its knees to enter into one long-term transaction by buying some colossals on the Žitnjak that were really not strategically from the position of HZ Cargo when it is known what and how much traffic is happening at this point on those tracks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47239	And Damir Cain, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47240	I don't know if I understand you correctly, Mr. Representative, but you said at one point that at one point, a kuna achieved in the Croatian Railways of the State today invested or invested 2.8 kuna. So 2.8 billion today, let's say, their income of 1 billion is invested at approximately 1 billion and 300 million kuna. So it's correct. Now the question arises who left these Croatian railways. I claim an open Croatian state. She was, she wasn't or the railroad wasn't so abandoned by the '90s. It's been abandoned since the '90s in here. Now, is there anything more we can do over the last year and a half since 2011 on here? I agree, so there wasn't much possible when it came to the railroad doing neither from the '90s to 2011. Well there was war, as you say were Croatian highways, socialities, shipbuilding recovery, agriculture incentives and so forth. Croatia was finally a semi-isolated country by 2000 and now things can change. Whether things will change remains to be seen. You mention the priority, Rijeka normally the Hungarian border but without lifting the burden, without raising the industry any of the renaissances of neither the Croatian or Istrian railways which, if traffic is not raised and tunneled through Učka, will be left with nothing. However, I would like to say that the view of the railway is attached or directed towards European funds. Today I read Croatian railway infrastructure for my projects accounts for around 730m euros from European funds. In the company, it states that EU funds have been used since 2008 and since then, two 71.6m-euro projects have been completed. They are currently working on a 35.8 project, etc., totalling about six to seven billion kunas over a period of several years. Will it come true? I don't know. I want that to happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47241	Thank you very much. Replication response, Branko Bacic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47242	My colleague Cain, in one part of it, you answered the question you asked me. Of course, by the '90s, the railways were in a completely different position, and all the state ports worked. And Sibenik, and Ploče, and Split, and Rijeka, and Zadar. The river ports and Sisak and Slavonski Brod and Vukovar and Osijek functioned, and it was clear that the load from these ports was largely then rerouted to the railway. At the beginning of the war important corridors, first of all X. Corridor was stopped and there were no funds left to the Croatian railways, but not only the funds were lost but the infrastructure was not maintained, and we came to a situation where we were in a position that during the war in large part of that traffic was transferred to the V. European Corridor and was forgotten by X. Corridor. And it's gonna take a long time until that X. Corridor gets back to the function he was in before the war. And because of the lack of funds in the Croatian Railways, we came to this working ratio that I was saying that because there was no restructuring, which is still a great cost on the railways, and the revenues were reduced because there was no traffic of the state invested more and more from the budget to come at one point up to 3 billion kuna subsidising towards the Croatian Railways. Now, I'm asking a question if we're not today, and we haven't heard from all these exhibitions, and we know that the railways aren't restructured to the extent that they were supposed to, that the costs were almost the same, that the state had reduced subsidies by a billion and 600 million kuna, and now the question is, can this system go into a liberalised, open market for strong European railway players? That's a fundamental question. I believe that this law should have answered that the Croatian railway that has over 10,000 employees will be able to respond to this challenge provided by Croatia's EU membership. This is a fundamental question, and how will we now, from the position of such funds, allow us to enter the competition. That's what I was going to say in my presentation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47243	On behalf of the Independent Representatives Club, colleagues Ivan Grubisic and Damir Kajin will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47244	Dear Madam Vice President, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Several general notes, on the occasion of a discussion on the restructuring of rail transport in the Republic of Croatia and the coordination of this traffic with our environment. It is clear from these discussions so far and I am in part supporting them, I am not in favour of making important decisions after a brief procedure and should always leave room for the text of the draft law to be improved after a thorough debate and therefore, in principle, I am in favour of it. However, when it comes to the reconstruction of the Croatian Railways, I would have to mention that the directions and corridors that were made nearly two centuries ago cannot survive today and successfully connect Croatia within themselves and Croatia with their environment. Because I come from Dalmatia, from Split, then if I were to go to Zagreb by train on a passenger track, I need eight hours. Eight hours to cross 350 kilometers. This is where some money is invested, money is spent but no change of route, and it is necessary to change the routes to make transport more efficient, faster and cheaper. There's nothing to do about it. Also when it goes from Split to Dalmatia to Zagreb, it should be spent 3.5 hours, pay the toll, and I recently heard that Dalmatia should be called a dead end, that Zadar is well connected to Croatia but that Split, and in particular Dubrovnik and Dalmatia are not very well connected. We have to do 80km more than it takes to get to Zagreb we pay for it and drive longer. Otherwise, the state should make alternative directions to these corridors, and we consider it now when it comes to rail traffic that Knin is completely trafficked, and that Knin is pleased to be called the royal city of Zvonimir, we are happy to celebrate the Day of Victory and Thanksgiving and therefore do nothing. We believe that Knin needs to be connected by infrastructure by rail and transport bus better within Dalmatia, fast roads and faster arrival of trains and association of Knin with the rest of Croatia. It's interesting who went, but I went long ago along the Split-Knin-Grac railway track and I know how long it takes to climb the railway track to Malovan because the technology was not so developed that the tunnels were working but now I'm surprised that we didn't come up with the idea to break through the tunnel for both road and rail traffic, let's say from Padjan to Gračac on a fast road and not cut the highway by 80km from Dalmatia especially from southern Dalmatia to Zagreb, make it cheaper and faster. There's nothing to do. Now D1 Udbina-Grac must go round, they fix the old road, it is rags, but the place where they invested money in a fast road that would reduce traffic and make the journey from Split to Zagreb more efficient is not working or thinking. Clearly, there should be new corridors made by experts, investing in them that what is spent on repairing old holes and old directions does not make travel more efficient, neither faster, nor more comfortable. If it takes us eight hours to cross 350km without modern railways in France in Japan in an hour then you can see where we are in that transport infrastructure. The remaining additions to this debate will be from a colleague of Cain's. We will improve with regret that it is necessary to avoid passing laws by emergency procedure because discussions, proposals and amendments are needed to make the text really good, but here is what we hope it will still bear some fruit and something concrete and good will come of it and will happen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47245	Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy, gentlemen of the Parliament. Yes, the railway in Croatia is almost "before shutting down" on some exhale. It's already in effect in Istria. And unfortunately, Croatia itself is unable to save Croatian rail infrastructure, let alone the one in Croatia's Istria. Why? The train in Istria was built there somewhere between 1860 and 1870 and when it was built it was then an avant-garde in that technological sense. It's like I don't know Croatia today is launching a space shuttle into orbit around the Earth. And finally this railroad is the one that built Istria, integrated Istria into that Western culture, connected with Trieste, connected with Vienna, clearly through Trieste, Vienna with Europe. If someone's even sentimentalally tied to that railroad or that Istrian railroad, it's me. Even there in 1870, the 80th Bishop Dobrila retrieval of the friends of one great Strossmayer dreamed of connecting Istria with other parts of Croatia through Učka. The plans even meant around 1870 then, in the 1980s it was possible to connect Istria with Croatia, but unfortunately it did not happen. So what now? By 1991, the Istrian railways were made up of Slovenian railways. Today they are made up of Croatian railways but are actually autonomous but because of that, among other things, in exhale. Today we also have this phenomenon that the Istrian railways remain without cargo traffic. In one year of Istrian railways when we talk about freight wagons, they are transported exactly 711, two a day. It's like someone's building an ipsylon invests billions of euros for two trucks a day. And that's what we need in Istria to figure out. Industrial production has fallen significantly in recent years compared to the time before the crisis. Only in 2012 compared to 2011 industrial production, pardoned exports to Pula dropped by 55% and exports to Istria fell by 27% compared to the 11th. In the meantime, we've also lost our port, if we don't have a port or we've never had them in the right sense of that word, we'll be left without the railroad. The truth is, if traffic rises to 90th and traffic rises to 90th, it's gonna be hard, but now we're part of Europe, so we'll see. And what now our railroad down in Istria can expect, that part of the Croatian railway. That since 2016, 600 million kuna will be invested in the reconstruction of Buzet-Pula and about 400 million kuna in that Lupoglav-Bršica, provided the burden rises to 1990 levels. So the condition is that economic activity. It's a condition that ports live and industry doesn't collapse. It's a condition that the Oilman has a job, but it's essential that that railroad survives or survives it's Ucka tunnel. And that's the railroad one. And we need this train tunnel incomparably more than the other road track through Učka which may begin to be built there in 2017, 2018. If they were to withdraw funds for a railway tunnel through European funds, I argue that almost, I do not say, but the experts of almost all rail traffic from the south of Spain there from Barcelona, South France, northern Italy would be directed through Učka, Zagreb and Croatian railways to further east and northeast Europe. Clearly, the Buzet-Coper, or Kopar, or Učka tunnel costs between 150m euros, 200m euros. That's about a billion and 500 million kuna. It is not a fantastic money today, but it is a huge money for both Croatian railways and clear for the Croatian state. Perhaps the investment would return quickly because we all know if the railway in Croatia in these areas survives this decade then that railway will simply, I dare say live forever. Nowhere when we talk about the railroad is as dramatic, as ungrateful as it is in our country down in Istria. This country has been talking about a Peljesac bridge for years. It's absolutely legitimate and necessary. But keep your mouth shut about the train tunnel through Ucka. And while this is the case, and while we need to cross 100, 120 km more than we need to cross the road, no one will use that railroad and it is simply condemned to one quiet one to express myself dying. And because we don't have these railways, which are our ports as are largely suffering economies and if Istria develops then the entire Croatia will benefit as Istria will benefit if Croatia develops normally. So, for the end, I'm going to say once again that Istria is a more necessary train tunnel at this time than that road tunnel, that second pipe could go somewhere in 2017, on the 18th yesterday we talked about it in Buick. Through Učka, the road tunnel would be 5.8km, estimated to be about 20m euros, meaning 120m euros, so the railway would be around 150m euros to 200m euros longer. And Istra without a train tunnel that started digging somewhere in 48th and then 93th in pre-election or I don't know what kind of purpose, she's just gonna lose the railroad. Or Croatia will lose that part of the railway in Istria. By Zagreb I said we must go 100, 120 km more than on the road. Because we're going through Ljubljana. It's like we're the exterior territory of the Republic of Croatia. It should also be said that the Istrian railways or that part of the Croatian railways were part of the Slovenian railways by 91st, that these railways were carrying something at the time I know that Slovenians would fight for them under quotes for our railways but they were wearing nothing and they were eager to return these railways to the Croatian Railways system. The railways were made by our railwaymen who, if anything, were satisfied that it was so because today they have three, four times as much pension as they would have done in Croatia. But once again, even if I did, you should simply consider that when we are already using these 700m euros from European funds, or we will also be able to build a railway tunnel through Učka and that merger from Buzet to Copra as well. would simply integrate these railways into a territorial and traffic system I would say the Croatian Corps of State or Croatian People. [[Intruder: Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47246	Thank you very much, dear colleague. And now we have 11 replicas to... First, at the presentation of colleagues, Grubisic Stjepan Milinkovic. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] [[Intruder: 11.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47247	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I understand your claim that you are against an emergency procedure mainly in this important Law on Railways, on transport and traffic safety. And it certainly stands. And I understand your allegations about local difficulties, so you're instructions on the Dalmatina 20 km here and there. And I'm going to tell you that I come from the county, from an environment that has no highway and that has quite a lot of traffic problems, it's Koprivnica-Crysing County. And unfortunately, we're in such a situation that our sub-level-biological ipsylon is not exactly likely to continue so quickly. Secondly, you have also instructed examples about the railway, the difficulty of rail traffic. We also have examples in our midst, but of course by pawning the last government we managed to reconstruct the section of the railway from the Križevci to Koprivnica worth about 180 million. There are some other works, and now this railroad that is a strategic railway, which is spoken of, of immense importance to economic and all sorts of sense, is not going to work. There's a hill valley, etc., if it goes. So what I'm saying is that each of our environments has its own examples, of course, the ones with the worse side, and we're talking about the even development of our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47248	Replication response, Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47249	I understand that everyone advocates their own areas and better solutions, but it is also important to take care of the population, that Split and Dalmatia are almost a million inhabitants, almost a million inhabitants. ... It is, so Split, Dubrovnik, Sibenik, almost a million inhabitants and that integration with the metropolis is very important with Europe as well. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I therefore believe that these should be priorities because both the island part and southern Dalmatia, Dubrovnik, should have a better connection infrastructure between themselves and Croatia as a whole.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47250	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47251	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So, your colleague Grubisic, in your performance, mentioned the traffic connection, i.e. better said traffic decoupling within Croatia, and you also mentioned Dubrovnik. I will just say that it is truly regrettable for the citizens of Dubrovnik-Neretva County, especially for this isolated part of the Stone and the south and islands, of course, that it is saddening for them today to hear about Croatian railways that are in huge problems, and for whose functioning the state annually in the last 10 years averages one Pelješki bridge. So, on average, 2 billion kuna from the budget is invested in Croatian railways annually. Last year they produced a loss of 350 million kuna, and on average, Croatia was giving to those railways with which few people are driving today because from Split, as you said, it takes 8 hours, it takes a century from Dubrovnik because we don't have a railroad at all. So the railroad's gone, there's no highway, because the coalition gentlemen last year when they came to power stopped the road from ending to Ploč. So it's not even a highway in our county yet, let alone a railroad. And then someone asks the question of the Pelješko bridge in the Croatian Parliament, so what should the citizens of Dubrovnik say when they hear that the state annually singles out one Pelješki bridge for a railroad that is lost by 350 or a billion kuna. What are we talking about here and what priorities? And I hear Mr. Cain who I will later respond to in my replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47252	Replication response, Ivan Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47253	I agree, Mr. Representative, with your presentation and conclusion, and I also agree with that, and I believe that the priority of the integration of Dubrovnik County with the rest of Dalmatia and Croatia is priority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47254	And now we're going to the replicas to show our fellow Caine. Franjo Lucic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47255	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here, Mr. Cain, I congratulate you on your wishes, so you're a fighter for Istria and you say how it is currently done in Istria, and I confirm that the most important thing in road construction is currently being done in Istria, unlike all of Croatia where nothing is done on road construction, only being done in Istria. You have the desire to build a railway line that costs 130m euros, but I congratulate you on that and I say nothing. But we also have a need in Požega-Slavon County to make a quick road and get out on the highway with a tunnel and a fast road that ultimately costs about 150 million kuna. It is not nearly how much is currently being done in Istria, how much will be done in the future in Istria, and I am not against these jobs, but I am against working only in one place because other environments in Croatia also need to develop the economy. But what is important for Požega-Slavon County, I am sorry that there is no fellow Ronka here because this moment has come out, so this project, which I have been pushing as a parliamentary representative for a long time where we have come to call a competition for the main project for this fast road, the same colleague Ronko says that this project does not need because Croatia has no money, and this is our only way out of the fast road or highway and the only hope for economic development. I therefore congratulate you that with such great demands with all these existing capital investments that are currently being made in Istria today or not, let him listen to how other people are looking for it from their counties, and the same one that comes from Požega-Slavon County says that this road does not need Požeško-Slavon County and brakes the project, and he is at the launch of the main project, so we are asking that the project documentation itself be resolved now. Well done, but on the other hand, let this government also consider that other units of local self-government, regionally, need to develop road infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47256	Thank you very much. Let me remind you, we're discussing the Law on Railways. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47257	Thank you. It's the role of our representative, Mr. Representative. Here's nothing currently being built in Istria, but I hope from 10 months of construction of the Istrian Ipsilon within 45 km of old Pazin to Učka tunnel. All in Croatia or one large majority are fighting against the concessions of the road, and we in Istria are afraid for the concession of the Istrian Ipsilon. Yesterday we met at a meeting with Buick and I didn't know, at one point I was joking whether we were representatives of the Croatian Parliament or we were representatives of Buick. Why? Because Buick is able at this time to provide 200m euros for 45km of highway which the Croatian State, which is the county, which the municipality, which cities that don't give a single lip simply can't. But it brings back 500 to 1,000 builders in three years. 500 to 1000 families will in some ways be protected through such a form. And is Buick going to make money? Of course they're going to make money, so they're not any altruists, and here in these areas they've been present since '95. Or I don't know what years they've been here, and I'm sure they've really fertilized that investment of theirs. This is what I simply want to say that sometimes even a slightly different approach between the Istrian representatives and the government and representatives from other parts of the country and the government is, whether this is left, liberal or not, centrist or, say, the right HDZ administration at the moment of country governance. But thank you for your good wishes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47258	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47259	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain, as a Croatian and as a citizen of this country, I would really like Istria and the railway because there is a road tunnel, so connect with the Republic of Croatia. However, in European terms, I fear this will not work exactly because the Transport Committee, therefore the European Parliament and the European Parliament, decided on a railway network in Europe by 2025 at their plenary sessions. In this network, therefore, there is no Croatian railway at all. So there is no Croatia at all. The biggest project is the road north – southern Europe that bypasses Croatia, goes to Germany, so Denmark, Germany, Austria, Hungary, Romania. The largest railway bridge in Europe is currently being built, and we do not know it between Romania and Bulgaria, so across the Danube. So, the biggest train bridge in Europe for that very purpose. So, further Bulgaria, Greece, Istanbul, Turkey. So, Croatia absolutely does not exist in these directions, and then I'm afraid that this tunnel that you're talking about and that I'm also pushing for as well as you, that we finally get the railway link of Istria to Croatia, that it's going to be a little hard to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47260	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47261	What is a European rail strategy I really don't know, but we may be left out because of other interests, Europe's priorities, perhaps because of the fact that we haven't been in the EU by this point, but I see there are other road priorities. It's Ucka tunnel. I want to believe that he would be profitable if he went from Buzet to Copra, not through the Virgin and worse Cosina. It's a 14-mile radius plus about six, seven, eight-mile tunnel. That's the 200 million, let's say. I know that the future for Istrian railways without tunnels is simply not available if 711 freight wagons are transported within a year. Not daily, but annually. It's 2 cars a day, it's like if someone said before about a pay phone thinking about building an Istrian Ipsilon for two freight trucks a day. If we had that tunnel, if we had that merger, I was convinced by the experts then indeed all this burden from Barcelona across the south of France, northern Italy, via Slovenia, Istria, the Učka tunnel, Rijeka, Zagreb would be withdrawn to Eastern Europe. Normally, I said sentimentalally, I'm kind of tied to these railroads. I know that with the railways began the modern era of Istria, with the railway Istria was integrated into that one western hemisphere. Without the railway, there would be no Pula, without the railway, there would be no Uljanica, Arsenal, without railways like I said there would be no modern era in Istria, and therefore I want to believe that in the plans of the Croatian Railways and the state of Croatia, there will be places for this 200m-euro railway tunnel.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47262	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47263	Thank you, Madam President. Yes, it is about railways that have not reached Dubrovnik and which are not in Dubrovnik as traffic. However, fellow Caine, you said, you were actually comparing the Pelje Bridge with the tunnel through Učka. It's simply incomparable. So Croatia is not connected to that part at all. We have received an exclusive that is today except for the Croatian Exclave of the European Union. We have entered the EU to have a smooth flow of goods, services, travellers, so citizens, etc. However, that part of Croatia remained closed in a cage, we remained in a cage in the EU. We don't have free flow of goods, services, citizens, passengers, so we don't have any communication, or that communication is catastrophic. And that you are today comparing the tunnel through Učka with the Pelješki bridge is also another catastrophic consequence of the thinking you had in the last term when we put the Pelješki bridge into the budget, and when you said it should be removed because then I guess the state will blossom when the budget for the Pelješki Bridge is moved, which was 150 or 200 million kuna at the time. And once again, the citizens of Dubrovnik need to know that the Croatian state invests annually in Croatian railways 2 billion kunas. So, every year they invest in the Peles Bridge. What are they supposed to do? We are not acting the way you expect us to act, so we really expect that priority to be recognised this time with the help of the EU and the European Commission. However, it is tragic that the Croatian government did not recognise it as its priority but must bring the priority into line with the EU. That's tragic. And it's tragic that they didn't have any funds left for the Peleski Bridge in the state budget. That's all the tragedy. And colleague Cain, you can't compare your traffic connection to our traffic connection.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47264	Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47265	When it comes to that bridge, I wasn't talking about when the budget was being debated. If someone was aware of what would bring the border to the Dubrovnik coast, then it was us Istrians who know very well what brought the border between Croatia and European Slovenia to a place where Istria was never shared in history to the citizens of Istria. We were aware of that. And that's why I never said that. I agree that we need to address this traffic extraordinaryity of the Dubrovnik coast. How? The Peles Bridge, the tunnel? Irrelevant. It needs to be connected. But there is a need to think about how to resolve the exteriority of the Istrian railways because if this happens it will raise the economy and Istria, it will raise Croatia's economy. And what's good for Istria, I at least experience it that way, is good for all of us in Croatia and vice versa. What is good for the Dubrovnik coast is probably good for both Istria and every other part of the Republic of Croatia. I agree that at these times when Croatia has to find 18 billion kuna in three years how to service the Croatian highways and Croatian roads, it may have other priorities that it should serve these 18 billion in three years, which should be increased about 4% annually in Croatia to make 6 billion kunas available only for highways from Rijeka to Zagreb and stay in Croatia. We're in no condition to do that. That's not possible. So let us be aware when we talk about certain concepts and individual possibilities. And I agree, although I'd rather personally take the train tunnel than the bridge to Dubrovnik if the Dubrovnik bridge were more of a priority than a train tunnel through Učka.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47266	Branko Bacic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47267	Thank you, Madam Vice President. A fellow Caine would be fine if we didn't remember, if we didn't remember some events because then we wouldn't see people evolve, changing their attitudes. You may have forgotten that 6 years ago, that the IDS and you were then the President of the County Assembly seems to me, but in any case you were a very high-ranking member of the IDS, you asked for my resignation because I advocated that the status of Luke Bršica in the Municipality of Rasa would remain in the Luke Rijeka system to preserve the railway in Istria because at that time the IDS was not responsible for being a cattle terminal in Bršica, but rather for the County of Bršica to be abolished, so that in practice the main track and one of the main economic colossies in Istria, because by changing the purpose for the port of Bršica, there was practically no need at all to eliminate such a part of the railway infrastructure. And when you speak and compare, colleague Caine, the need for a tunnel through Učka, which I support, and I think it should be done, and the Pelješko Bridge, then it would be about the same if you from Istria were to head towards Zagreb and first come to Brestovo by ferry to Cres in Porozin and drive through Cres to Merag and then move from Merag to Valbisk to Krk from Krk. That would be about the same starting position for you in Istria and we in Dubrovnik-Neretva County, that is, in the south of Dubrovnik-Neretva County when we head towards Zagreb. Our paths to Zagreb without the Pelješko bridge are such that we are glad, no one else in Croatia knows it or can feel it. So let's be realistic here. If there is something priority in the infrastructure sense in Croatia, then it is the Pelješki bridge and without the Peljega Bridge in southern Croatia we cannot accept any other transport investment in the Republic of Croatia that can be before and in priority compared to the Pelješki bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47268	Thank you very much. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47269	So by the time we came to Zagreb in 2000, we were usually driving across Ljubljana. ... Well, I don't drive anymore, clearly I don't drive because I'm building an ipilon, the Ucka tunnel was built by means of self-delivery still out there in the '80s, we pay it like St. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Petra Caygan, concessionary Bujik Istria, is a unique case in the '95 RH vis-a-vis concession contract. He's freed even from VAT, but no matter what, you see me today when we're aware that there are no investments we advocate to continue the concession by Bujik, and I want to believe that your works in Istria will go there at 10, 11 months. Six years ago, Mr. MP, I wasn't the president of the Paris County Parliament, I was until 2000, I wasn't even a councilman, I was here in the Parliament, I don't know whether or not I voted here for your trust probably not, if I was a member of the County Assembly I'd probably be solidarity with the other council members. So I don't think I'm equating myself to what I'd probably do that way. But when we talk about Lucy Brschica, it's far more important. The port of Bršica should remain on the port. She's neglected, there's no development of the Labinstina without Luke Brschica. But that development won't happen while it's part of a Rijeka port or a port like this. Will something change there in due time? I don't know. She should, in my court, be far more autonomous, perhaps in an autonomous Istrian way and manage. It should be connected to other ports, as we were offered opportunities, primarily in Kopar, but someone blocked it all the time in Zagreb. And it was supposed to be the main landing port of the car that would then move further west of Europe. But we didn't get it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47270	Once again, I ask you to discuss the Law on Railways neither on the ports nor on the roads. Damir Rilje replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47271	Madam Vice President. My colleague Cain, I will try to bind myself specifically to what you just said about economic development. The entire railway infrastructure in some way leads to the reduction of losses and the non-production of losses and the merger of what I call economic development, so the transport of goods and passengers. But unfortunately, I don't see what a manager is right now, which person he is. It can be any legal person so far, it is not clear to me at this time, and I don't know if in this context you've been thinking about whether it's a regional or a local one now, especially if a local rail is where it can happen to be no longer considered a public good in general, and then so far as it can even be given to someone by the right of service or the right to build. So then it's all a little confusing to me because I don't know how you're going to have a situation at that point, let's say, specifically in your area or maybe someone else. Okay. This is about connecting ports, but in order to connect ports, we also need to have the amount of goods and economic development that we will carry and the number of passengers that will be transported by the same trains. Of course we can't even stand this state that's happening right now, and that's... we heard a little before last year 340 million. But the fact is that economic development cannot work without infrastructure. So here's what your predecessor of the royal city said, we also have to connect, but at that point, will he have a status, for example, a local railway that won't be publically well in general use. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47272	Thank you. The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47273	I don't know, maybe we didn't get along well, but I didn't mention any managers, and I certainly didn't mention any privatisation of the railroads. But I'm sure that piece of Croatian railway we call the Istrian railways will not be privatized. They were made up of Slovenian railways. Until when? By the year '91, the Slovenians were also so jealous of other people, let alone their own. As soon as they could, 091, they were returned. Workers would far or rather have been railwaymen on those tracks if they had remained in the composition of Slovenian railways in the sovereign territory of the Republic of Croatia. Why? Because they would get Slovenian salaries like those who retired in '91 today receive Slovenian pensions that are 3.4 times higher than Croatian pensions. Investments would certainly not be bigger than the Slovenian railways, as they have been since the year '91 and the railways were made up of Croatian railways. Once again, I appeal to the tunnel and to the Buzzet-Copar compound.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47274	Tomislav Klaric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47275	So there's a replica to Mr. Caine he said that if the railroad survived this decade. It will survive this decade even centuries since the railway is of vital interest to the Republic of Croatia. And it seems to me, and I agree that you Mr. Don Grubisic missed a little theme when you talk about the railroad because here we are now talking about this law. The law which does not mention the word of the Croatian railway in which it is mentioned in Article 15 of the Infrastructure Manager who it is, who it is and who it will be. It is said that the railway cadastre should be arranged for all the happiness in the Republic of Croatia. The only thing that was taken care of by these state-owned companies was a built-up railway cadastre because it was built during the Austro-Hungarian period, so they took care of it. However, there is another problem that arises not only about this law but about all the property that the railway has, and through our people and the whole country that will lose public good status under this law if the government is not in public good use, and then it will enter into that law that we talked so much yesterday and talk about the need not to adopt an emergency procedure because it is marked for our country, so that both this land and these facilities that are now owned by HZ and the public good in general use, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia land will become property that this kind of director will then DUDI or I don't know what they can do with that property. Again, I return to what is not written in this law on railways, the safety of even traffic in this way, especially in the mountainous areas. I appreciate your thinking in that part that we should think about every single area of our country, but the corridor important to the country for economic development has long been set, should be developed, upgraded especially in that section of the Port of Ploče and Rijeka and what the railway can bring some revenue.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47276	Thank you. Answer Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47277	Mr. Representative, I am literally quoting myself not "if the railroad survives this decade then they will live forever" if the railroad survives this decade that is before Croatia then they will live forever. If he doesn't survive these next few years, and I mean first of all the Istrian railways on that segment of Croatian railways then we'll lose that one railroad that I said was there in 1860, 1870.avavangarda it's like today Croatia space shuttle constructs and sends in orbit around the Earth or around the moon. Istra's out there about 20 and a few years ago if it's '28. or '30. has not significantly lost the Parancana has never again recovered from this loss and now we could lose both segments or individual segments if not the whole railroad. The way she is, I'm afraid she won't survive. Why am I afraid we might lose her? Because cargo traffic is already being shut down. And indeed, many have now begun to calculate. The annual Istrian railways are transported by 711 freight wagons, it's like passing two trucks daily on Istrian roads. Who's going to return that burden? The government can't bring him back either. He can't bring him back. I'll tell the Minister this one or that one. There's something that local self-government can do about it and it can do something about the economy. But to survive it should simply help Istria or come out to meet that if anything else and others in Croatia are beginning to think about the necessity of building when it will be, I don't know, a railway tunnel through Učka that is out there somewhere in the 1870s, the 80s thought about and a great bishop of Dobrila. Thinking of connecting Istria with his own as he spoke to the Croatian-Slaven brothers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47278	Goran Maric replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47279	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Cain, your debate once again confirmed that there is really no representative in the Croatian Parliament who better, better, better, better defends the interests of his country as you do. And I congratulate you on that. But there is no part of Croatia that does not require better infrastructure. Slavonia is crying for the modernisation of railways and road infrastructure, for the irrigation system, Dalmatia is also, in addition to that, still crying for the drain system,... wastewater. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] You also need an Istra railroad through the Ucka tunnel, but nothing can even be compared to the Peljev Bridge. The Pelješki bridge is the most important strategic national project in the Republic of Croatia without the Pelješki bridge has no economic life of a county. But the Pelješki bridge is even more than that, it must also be a monument to the unity and connection of the sovereign Croatia. But it must also be a symbol of the independence and indivisibility of the Republic of Croatia. And that's why I don't think there's a case like this anywhere in the world and there shouldn't be any government that doesn't want to be done right away. There is no such project in Croatia. And even though I'm not from Dubrovnik, I understand from Zagreb. And we should still take care of the whole of Croatia and Istria is far and wide the infrastructure and economic most developed part of Croatia. And let it continue to develop but we must take care of other parts and therefore nothing can be compared to the need of the Peljega Bridge. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47280	The answer to Damir Cain's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47281	So someone doesn't think I have anything against Slavonia, Dalmatia, Krajina, I don't have anything against our neighbours, any Slovenians, either Bosnia and Herzegovina, Hungary, Serbia or anyone else. Okay, let's sit down, we need to sit down, we need to agree on priorities. The exteriority of the Republic of Croatia needs to be resolved. Absolutely should, and I agree. It is one of the biggest problems at this time of economic, cultural, civilization if we really want the Republic of Croatia. We need to resolve the isolation of the Dubrovnik coast. I said I understood what that means. Among other things, because like others in Croatia, I lived this life in Istria after an unnatural border regime was established in my court. The border is natural, we know the Istrians where Slovenia begins. But I'm talking about an unfair border regime. And what is happening to Dubrovnik, it is an unfair border regime imposed at the moment by the European Union, and it should be with Brussels and we here simply need to reach one consensus to overcome it, to overcome it. Until it's achieved and we're not gonna do it overnight, we need to build that bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47282	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47283	Thank you very much. My colleague Cain and I were together on the Round Table in Istria for closing or suspending the freight transport of railways on the Istrian railways. You quickly proclaimed yours and left. But then, in the follow-up, HZ CARGO's representative said to find a ride, so we'll, we'll, we'll find the cargo and we'll arrange the transport. It is a sentence that simply makes no sense because given what you said there is no physical contact of the circle in Istria and the rest of Croatia and it is impossible to organise it in such a way. Since I worked in that section and I know very well what that means and it's a pure demagogue sentence. But in the meantime, you happened to have Slovenian railways entering with their passenger trains in Pula. In Pula. ... Nothing. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] I just want to say they only meet what they need. But it's on your trail with the application of this law that's exactly what you're saying if you survive this decade. This is a clue that he will not survive this decade with this law and this country's relations with the railroad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47284	The answer to Damir Cain's replica. Get the microphone on, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47285	... Yeah, I remember that day, I was the first to speak and I had to... [[Specially enabled.]] I don't know what I had to do. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think Minister Opacic was in the city when the retirement home was opened that day. When we talk about freight transport in Istria, I'm going to say once again, 711 freight wagons, 2 cars as a rule per day. I also agree with this message that came from Zagreb Central, find transport and we will organize this transport. And what does that mean exactly? When an Istrian company or an oil company says that, we'll have a transport, five wagons of cargo for the needs of arsenals, at that point, I'll call it the mechanism of lay, wagons or these locomotives, to tell me in Istria the machines, will be found and that burden will be transported to Pula. And through such a form, no one should be denied but the problem is, you can wave as much as you want, as long as you want, but to organize the daily transport 24 hours a day is a question of whether it's possible, and I'd like you to realize that this tunnel in front of Učka is necessary for us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47286	Comrade Filipovic, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47287	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. So I just wanted to say a few words about what Mr. Cain said and this comparison of the traffic connection, additionally, so I'm glad that Istria is developing so well, and that tunnel is indisputable. However, it is incomparable, with one need to build the Peljega Bridge and connect the south of Croatia with the rest of Croatia. It's not just the south of Croatia's interest, it's not just Dubrovnik's interest. The Peljeski bridge is one of the great interests above all the country, the European Union, but this Pelješki bridge and the interest of the county from which I come, the Herzegova-Neretva County, the city... The neuro that the current traffic is going through, which has been reinforced since the moment Cirina railway stopped working, when Dubrovnik was connected to BiH and we no longer have that. So that's something that Neum needs because Neum is being relieved, Neum is not being divided into two parts. The waste received any kind of to build a port in Neum, the heads of some who, the hotheads let go of that idea as a need to build a port in Neum, which would practically make Neum not a touristic but a port city and that would be something completely different, which would mean Luke Ploče compared to what we normally plan with Luke Ploče. What is at all an interest in the economy that is based on Lucy Ploce from Hungary and other countries via BiH. So that's something we have to keep in mind. Through Neum permanently not in the way he's driving now. Temporarily, yes, but this Peljek Bridge is something that is desirable for every man in BiH, mostly for people in Herzegovic-Neretva County and Neum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47288	Thank you very much. Replication response, Damir Cain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47289	It's not true, no promised land, it doesn't develop the way we want it to. I won't say we suffer, but I will say we share fate with all other parts of the Republic of Croatia. Well, in Istria, in the last five years in the real sector, 8,000 jobs have been lost, it's like we've lost four olives. I said before at the pay phone, exporting the city of Pula in 2012 compared to '11. It was -55%, exports to Istria were -27%, industrial production may have fallen in Istria because it was at a slightly higher level, perhaps more than elsewhere in the Republic of Croatia. But Istra is still as economically as the city of Zagreb looks in the best position in the Republic of Croatia, which is doing tourism, which is doing some extra activities, which is still because of some Italian pension, which may be something due to agriculture, which may be because of the mentality of people who still believe that the work can only achieve something, which perhaps because of the privatisation that has been done in some other way. Although I am clearly contesting what was done, but these large economic systems, mainly in tourism, have managed to preserve themselves. There are some small differences between Istria and other parts, and most of all perhaps in one mentality, which is probably a specific feature of each end to think and express in its own way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47290	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47291	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. There's my predecessor in the debate, my colleague Cain, mentioned the Peljeski Bridge, and he's earned a series of replicas. Of course, here I take the opportunity to personally think that this project should certainly be realised in the most optimal way possible because it is important for the Republic of Croatia. Let's get back to the railroads. Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 establishing a single European railway area, which in a unique way regulates the area of European Union rail transport and the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the membership of the European Union countries, will also create the necessity to adopt the Law on Railways and will support this legal solution. The vertical integration model by which the administration which manages all areas of activity is generally known in all countries prior to the start of the railway restructuring process and their demonopolisation. Therefore, in its regular form, rail entrepreneurship represented the natural monopoly of a commercial company owned by a state providing transport to railways throughout the territory of that country. The State is its founder and the core capital of such a company is railway infrastructure, railway vehicles and all other more valuable assets of the company. In such a system is the rail infrastructure that represents the natural monopoly. Transport is only one of the activities within the same society through which the state acts as owner and as public authority in charge of protecting public interest is using this infrastructure by providing an ideal double benefit. On the one hand, protection of public interest is ensured through the development of passenger and freight rail transport by ensuring the transport link between less populated and rural areas, as well as the integration of one country with other neighbouring countries which the railways and operate on the same principle. On the other hand, such a service activity should also create earnings covering the costs of transport operations and infrastructure investments. Speaking of public interest, it should be pointed out that this concept is embedded in the very basis of rail activity, although it is not due to historical or organisational reasons as well as technical characteristics. The concept of rail transport as a public or social service, regardless of cost-effectiveness, is a fundamental feature and an activity affecting the organisation, the provision of services in that branch of industry around the world. The low friction of steel wheels of railway vehicles along the steel track causes very low fuel consumption, making transport itself relatively cheap. This led to the rapid expansion of the railway network during the industrial revolution. Most countries predicted for military and industrial reasons some form of public control over their business, some and legal. State control of railway work has emerged with the accompanying state support for the obligation to provide public service on mandatory, often non-profit lines, given driving lines and specific services for individual products or areas. Unfortunately, the situation in which railway companies found themselves at the end of the 20th century in EU countries shows a much more complex picture. Railways have unsustainably lost the race with increasing quality road transport, failing to offer a market for new services that would compensate for technological disadvantages. The market share lost in the post-World War II has led to a rapid lagging behind that branch behind other transport branches, leading to its growing inertability and need for financial interventions by the state. The large shortage of railways in their market placement is the inability to provide door-to-door transport services due to the conditionality of the existing infrastructure network and technical constraints. This entails further collection of services by means of an organisation, shipment of goods until boarding the wagon and dispatch usually by means of a road vehicle after its landing, which significantly slows down the whole transport business, complicates and collects. Furthermore, rail transport is a particularly freight dispute because all modes of transport are fast, passenger, regional, local, freight and freight facilities carried out on the same infrastructure and part of the route in a specific unit of time, which is subject to very rigid and fixed rules of order of missing individual trains, with the lowest priority of freight transport. Finally, maintaining existing infrastructure and new investment for the introduction of new technologies as well as investment in the modernisation of the rolling stock and the introduction of technological innovations in transport activity require huge funds that cannot be earned under such conditions. And in a market environment where road transport is increasingly pushing the railways. In parallel with these external factors, the loss of the railway market position has changed from within. In fact, the railway company with fixed sources of funding and safe jobs was an attractive and desirable place of employment especially in economically unstable and uncertain times. In this way, railways have increased their number of employees over several decades, thus exceeding often the ratio guaranteed by market profitability. Payment of salaries to employees at the beginning of each month was an increasingly challenging challenge again called for by the state as the owner to intervene from the state budget to cover and such costs. Thus, the funds spent did not lead to a new product in the short term but were irrevocably lost in the maintenance of the so-called so-called product. cold drive. In addition, a perception of its own position was created in which it is not intended to provide its own activity with the existence of a characteristic model of the functioning of private entrepreneurship but was aimed at ensuring the provision of static non-inventional and increasingly less attractive services, and the resources to cover the deficits were sought in the state budget. The guarantee of such a outcome was based on the argument of the importance of the railway company for the whole country through a multitude of related interests. The unsustainable loss of the railways market in favour of road transport, their incompetence as well as the large financial burden on the state budget which were such national railway companies synergy acted in the same direction as the railway revitalisation imperative through their restructuring and setting up a business on a market basis which should lead to profitable business. This objective has been achieved in EU countries over several decades of gradual legislative adjustments and practical implementation in the national legislation of EU Member States. Key steps towards real liberalisation of the railway market were made in 1991 and '95. the year by adopting Guideline 91/440 on the development of the European Community railways. Guidelines 95/18 on the licensing of rail entrepreneurship and guidelines 95/19 on the allocation of infrastructure capacity and charges for the use of infrastructure. The objective of Guideline 91/440 was to facilitate the adaptation of railways to the requirements of the single market and to increase their effectiveness. This objective was to be achieved through the 4 seemingly simple principles of the reorganisation of the railway companies by independent company management, sound finance covering expenditures, financial separation of infrastructure from rail transport and the right to access the national infrastructure network to non-resident carriers carrying out international combined freight transport, and to international rail transport groups in freight transport. The precautionary phasing-out policy has been continued in the 2001/12 guidelines of the European Parliament and of the Council amending Guideline 91/440 on the development of the Community railways. The change in the current situation consisted in allowing individual railway undertakings from across the EU to access the so-called trans European rail network, i.e. the part of the railway network which is explicitly declared as main goods corridors on which access rights for international goods transport are equal to combined transport. In 2004, the so-called the third infrastructure package. It is comprised of guidelines 2004/49 on safety on the Community railways, licensing of rail entrepreneurship guidelines 2004/50 on interoperability and guidelines 2004/51 amending Guideline 91/440 on the development of the railway community which makes further steps in the liberalisation of the market. Those Directives, meanwhile, have been substantially amended and, in view of the need for further amendments and clarity, it was necessary to connect those Directives into a single act which was made by the adoption of Directive 2012/34 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Due to the incompatibility, permanence, obsolescence and long-term devastation of railways and railway infrastructure to achieve the objectives as outlined in the Transport Development Strategy, large financial resources are needed and some major construction procedures are needed. It is realistic to expect these objectives to be achieved over several medium-term planning periods, but the realization of these objectives has been delayed for over 15 years. Trends of subinvestment have been present on the railways for the past 20 years and more. The result of such a condition is the backlog of the railway, very low permitted and commercial speeds of trains, poor condition of the track track and turnmills. The situation is not better for means of transport which have a very unfavourable age structure or otherwise a large majority of the means of transport have already been amortised. The European Union has set out what kind of railway it wants and has set an indicative period during which this should be realised. The future EU railway should be a railway that provides a high and secure level of service which has a negative impact on the environment to the minimum extent possible and which operates on market principles and without additional State donations if this is not set contractually with a view to providing services of general interest which cannot be profitable. Significant investment funds for railways are provided and are expected to be subject to fair competition from other modes of transport. Therefore, railways must make major changes in the organisation of operations and to raise the level of services. Croatian railways are involved in these processes, and since the Republic of Croatia is a full member of the EU, they adapt their business to the system which the EU has strictly set. Such a definition also requires significant investment in the railway system, all to bring the conditions of business and the level of transport services throughout the future united Europe. The long-term programme for the development of railway infrastructure provides for the outlines of the future railway network in Croatia. To achieve these plans, investment in the railway will need to become even more intense. The favourable geotransport position of Croatia will only be realised if the level of roads is raised to the highest extent. The sources of funding for such large investments will be in EU funds and the Croatian budget, and it should also create favourable preconditions to include private capital through various models in the development of rail infrastructure. The provisions of this law regulate the arrangements and conditions for the operation of rail transport, rail infrastructure status, rail infrastructure management conditions, conditions of access to the principles and procedures applicable to the introduction and fixing of compensation for the use of railway infrastructure and the allocation of rail infrastructure capacity, the criteria for issuing and temporary withdrawal, the removal and modification of licences to railway undertakings and the service of particular national interest for which the Republic of Croatia provides part of the funds. The basic principle on which the provision of rail transport and railway infrastructure management services is based is regulated – the principle of separation through the separate management of profit and loss account and balance sheet in the operation of the operation of railway transport services in relation to the management of railway infrastructure and the prohibition of the transfer of state resources to one business area to another, and the use of revenue from infrastructure fees and the use of profits from other business areas. Article 6 provides that the railway services market operates on the principles of transparency and equality and non-discrimination. The elements forming a railway infrastructure are defined within the meaning of this law and the planning of construction, modernisation, renovation and maintenance of construction is arranged and it is determined that these activities are of interest to the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, the management of railway infrastructure is defined as a public-interest activity and it is prescribed who is carrying out it. It is also prescribed that infrastructure managers are independent of the organisational and organisational meaning of all other entities in the rail market as well as other companies that form associated companies and the independence of the basic functions of managers, and that the rights and obligations of the manager and the owner of the railway infrastructure are governed by the contract on the management of the railway infrastructure. It also provides for the content of the contract, the obligation of the manager in the establishment of the Infrastructure Register and the manner and time limit of publication of the contract on the management and means of providing funds, sources of funding and investment in the new railway infrastructure. The procedure for accessing railway infrastructure, services provided to railway undertakings, the content of the minimum access package, the collection of electricity for train towing, and the obligation to draw up and publish network reports and the content of the report. Compensation for the use of rail infrastructure, methods and principles of fixing fees, procedures and means of allocation of infrastructure capacity, use of train routes, procedures in case of disturbances, means of issuing licences for the provision of transport services and concession procedures shall be arranged. The adoption of this law seeks to systematically and fully regulate the area of the rail system in the Republic of Croatia in line with the expression of European legislation and the conditions governing the competitive EU rail service market. And this through achieving the following objectives: on railway lines of importance for international transport to improve rail infrastructure and bring it into line in technical and technological terms with the requirements set out for the trans-European conventional rail network in order to increase the scope of transit rail transport. Harmonise the development of rail infrastructure, maritime and river ports and combined transport and ensure a harmonised structure of the entire transport sector in the Republic of Croatia. By building, upgrading, modernising and restoring railway infrastructure, create the necessary capacities to increase the volume and efficiency of rail transport, create a sustainable and stable system of financing for construction, modernisation, renovation and maintenance of railway infrastructure. For all reasons, the SDP club will support this legislative proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47292	Thank you. And now we'll hear the replicas. Young Marelić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47293	Thank you, Madam Vice President. I'm glad you're at the beginning of your presentation, but you touched the Pelješki bridge because colleagues on the other side of the mouth full of the bridge, and in 2001 when we put it in the County spatial plan they voted against it. The works they did were embarrassing to work for 8 years and that bridge was interrupted in 2010. So much is their seriousness and their will to work. We're talking one thing, and we're working on the ground quite another. I expect that this government will be so serious and the moment it announces that it will start working the bridge that it will secure the funds and end it very quickly within the deadline that they promise, and not eight years nothing is done, we put two... where we better not be doing anything but continuing to work, and in 8 years you could have ended. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47294	Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47295	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague, Sagar, I'd probably believe to you that you're for the bridge, but since you're speaking for the SDP club, then I can't believe you at all. Because this same SDP club was against the bridge and incorrect interpretations were absolutely against the bridge, look at the budget minutes and in 2009 and 2010 when the items of the construction of the Pelješki bridge were requested from the budget. That's what SDP's agents did. So even today after several months ago, your Prime Minister Mr. Milanovic said that a corridor would be done, he went to BiH to negotiate a corridor through Neum, of course he did not negotiate anything and had to come before the fact that the bridge had to be built and it was convinced by the European Commission. So the incorrect interpretations are that HDZ was against the bridge, though. In '98, we put HDZ's in this Assembly into the development of the transport infrastructure of the Republic of Croatia and that bridge in '98, and in 2001 no county spatial plan was adopted rather than in 2005. So what one of your representatives is saying is misleading the Croatian public and this can be seen from the record. So you were against the bridge and now you're against the bridge and today you can be applied to that Greek proverb, "Don't trust the Danish or when they bring gifts."
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47296	As far as I know, no one from the SDP club in 2009 nor in 2010 nor in 2011 made amendments to the budget. The answer to the replica Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47297	My colleague Matushic for a little while. So I mentioned the Peljek Bridge in its debate at the beginning only in the context that caused a series of replicas of colleagues to Cain only in this context. Otherwise this government paid I think about 150 million kunas to a contractor based on contractual obligations. So to clarify, I didn't speak on behalf of the Peljesk Bridge club, only in that context how many of these replicas caused Mr. Cain's statement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47298	Injury of the Rules of Procedure Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47299	Article 202 of the old Rules of Procedure has been injured, given that no new one has been delivered to the benches, then I do not know what the number of articles per new one is. In any case, Madam Vice President, you had to pick up the tablet and discuss it, not interpret what is not true. You know in 2009 and 2010 the SDP was against the bridge and that you requested the removal of that item from the budget. It's true. And the truth is that you were always against that bridge, you said that the illusion of fools in the 2011 campaign was the words of your representatives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47300	I couldn't lift the tile, and you make sure there are any such amendments. Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47301	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, here's my colleague, Sagar, you were talking about protecting the public interest in the adoption of this law, and it actually motivated me to report back to you. I would also like this law to address the protection of public interest as probably all of us but to me somehow it goes quite the other way because if it were not, it would not be in Article 14 that the classification of the railway is done by the Government, that the national programme brings the Government, that the medium-term and annual plan of construction brings the infrastructure manager. I wonder where the Parliament is? Where's the public? Where's the possibility of a public discussion, that's all? Somehow, the most in my eyes is your manager and owner. Who's the future owner of the railroad? Maybe it's like a man who spoke on behalf of a SDP club who makes politics you can say it more clearly here, maybe you can give an answer because I can't possibly read from here who would own it under this law, nowhere is it very clearly indicated or I may not have noticed it. But it says something else that's interesting, says the owner of the railway infrastructure will secure infrastructure management, finance funds for investment in the new railway infrastructure. And the assessment of the resources needed to implement the law states that no additional funding should be provided in the state budget. Now, if the state is the owner, it is planning to invest, and there is no need to provide additional funding. There's something unclear about it. Here, I'd like to ask you if you could explain that a little bit.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47302	The answer to the replica Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47303	Dear colleague Hrg, therefore the owner of the infrastructure is the Republic of Croatia and will remain that way. ...infrastructure at this point is HZ infrastructure and so will remain for a while. They make a deal with each other. As far as financial resources are concerned, and I think it was yesterday that Mr. Greece's Vice-President announced publicly how much investment is expected in Croatian railways through EU funds and through the part of the mandatory funds that the Republic of Croatia must participate in. As regards these provisions in the legislative proposal, no additional resources are required, this is exclusively meant for the implementation of the law itself. The funds that are secured... the maintenance budgets and the railways are already foreseen and will be exploited. HZ Infrastructure Manager... also announced and you have on websites and you can see what these projects are all projects to rebuild the railways in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47304	Young Novak replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47305	Thank you very much. Well, a colleague should make a lot of amends, but I know you spoke on behalf of the club, and you're not saying everything you think you should say. I'm going to start now from the end of this reply to the replica, this is definitely not true. The owner of the infrastructure is a state, but it doesn't say he'll stay. It says that it can declare that it is no longer public good and then leaves it to someone else, and the infrastructure manager under this bill is more foreseen because it writes in the plural. Therefore, more infrastructure managers already mean that it is not just HZ infrastructure that is... But HZ infrared also points out the contract if I'm not mistaken in 2014 because I think the five-year contract was signed in 2009, if I remember correctly. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it doesn't seem like it's going to be anywhere. Just to remind you that in the past Law on the division of Croatian railways, you said it was not the basis for privatisation, so yesterday we heard Minister Linic say it was. So don't run into such statements. You mentioned a delay in road transport. It's not only the consequence of what you've listed but it's also the effect of the road lobby and ours, the relations of our politicians towards those two, should be equal transport branches. Because an interesting transport minister in Germany is coming to work today with the railroad, with the train. All countries in Europe co-finance their railways. So, the theory that they can live off what they earn simply doesn't exist, there's no cover anywhere. Unfortunately, Croatia's railways since these countries have been a polygon for entanglement of political personnel. And who the hell is always incompetent political personnel? That's, that's our crime scene. And using compensation for... compensation for the use of infrastructure and this is a reflection of transport policy. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] For example, Slovenians have for locco transports, not cabotage, but for locco transports, so intrastate transports have made a decision to leave that fee. So the national carrier in trans-European...../The speaker went off and then turned it on./... it's just being accounted for but not charged. This is part of the transport policy when helping the national carrier.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47306	Thank you very much, dear colleague. The reply to the replica, the esteemed representative, Sagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47307	Comrade Novak, in most of this replica of yours, I agree. But what is important now is that the Republic of Croatia has the opportunity to see all the mistakes made in Europe and related to the liberalisation of the rail market. And surely, in the Republic of Croatia and this government and the next Government will have the sense not to make the mistakes they made, for example, in the UK. And where they have a lot of problems just in this part of which you're talking about, you're talking about. We are unfortunately in these processes and in pre-accession negotiations we have signed, we are in a situation, what we are intending is our problem but we must respect those objectives or those structural requirements that the European Union represents before us. And how we're going to get out of this whole thing is what we need in our head. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47308	New replica and respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47309	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament. I'm afraid I won't be heard by Mr. Representative Sagar. Namely, based on this, I'd say a little nerdy exposure I'd ask three questions. There is one thing about when he mentioned Dubrovnik and the exteriority of not connecting, if it does not remind him of some status from a few hundred years ago in the Republic of Dubrovnik. Thus, the separation of Dubrovnik and Dubrovnik coast from the Republic of Croatia. Secondly, this government that's been in office for the second year, so it talks and writes what's written here in this material. It's about a national railway construction program. And where's the national program? Two years in power have you developed a national railway program? You're not. The third question is how many miles, railways or meters in general, better in the meters of the railway line, new railway lines were built in the Republic of Croatia than in its acquisition of its independence. Unlike the highways that were built 1050 kilometers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47310	The reply to the replica is a respected representative of Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47311	Well, a bit of a colleague, it's a little bit obvious that everyone is trying in any way to collect political points when we mention the Pelješki Bridge or the connection to Dubrovnik. And I believe that this project will be announced and announced by the minister that it will be analysed in the near future. As far as the railroad is concerned, for 40 years nothing has been done practicalally when we talk about the lines of the new route. That's why it's been an unusual question for the last two years. This is a very serious complex problem. The national railway program needs to be brought in. What had been a major problem in the past, what the administrations, the railway administrations had changed practically to say since the normal period of four years, even two years ago. And in fact, no strategy has ever been adopted that would be quite clear and that would... For the next 40 years. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In that direction, it is difficult to answer your question. Only that comment on nerdy, I say this is a subject complex, we can talk about everything here, but what is important is that the Republic of Croatia cannot be left out in these processes, they are simple processes in the European Union and we have to follow them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47312	Thank you, Your Honor. We will now return to the debate on the final draft of the railway law. It is up to the respected representative Boro Grubisic on behalf of the HDSSB club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47314	Thank you very much, Mr. President, colleagues and fellow MPs gathered to vote in a large number here in the Croatian Parliament. Here we have yesterday marked the sad day of genocide in Srebrenica, and today we could mark the sad day of not genocide but the railroad cida. Namely, this Final Bill on the Railways gives the death sentence to Croatian railways after several attempts, so not at all, but after several attempts and previous governments and laws that have been passed in the Croatian Parliament, and in fact to the harm of Croatian railways and all those who serve Croatian railways in the transport of cargo and transport of passengers. What is it that such a difficult qualification can say today? What's that doing? So, let's start from that time after the acquisition of the independence of the Croatian state when, for example, in Slavonski Brod, the railway site was abolished. So where there were formerly 1,000 workers of Croatian railway workers, some 100, 150 remained today. So, train station Slavonski Brod like the train station in Sibinj, in some quite, quite other places, other places and nothing more. Furthermore, he mentioned that I should say an expert on the railways Mr. Novak here removes the mules from the railroad. That's what makes 13 locomotives out of 25, so more than half, so it stands for malfunctions. Furthermore, the bridge near Fužin, further train accidents that occurred during these years in the Republic of Croatia from Rudin near Split and then in Gorski kotar, a number of other smaller and larger persons with human casualties and major material damage. Someone bought a retard, is that what they call it, so it's kind of oily for the railroad line whether it was a retarded move or not, if it's someone retarded bought such a retard or not it's a matter of court and justice but here's the human victim there, the railroads as a subject in these victims are there and what we can see today is that the former government has abolished two railroads. The Našica-Pleternica railway is decided by Minister Kalmeta and the railway Sirac-Daruvar, which is now reportedly being put on the market again these days. The Pliernica-Nasice railroad is not put on the market, nor is there any hope of ever letting go. Although for the area it passes, the municipalities of Pleternica, Caglin and Nashice are very, very important. Unfortunately, in the Republic of Croatia, not one kilometer of the new railway route has been built in the last 23 years. Is that what anyone was wondering here from us how it was built 1054 km of highway, and not one meter of railroad? What does that really mean? So no government, left or right, and neither SDP nor Kukuriku nor HDZ took care of the Croatian Railways, but it is these donations to say in one former form of a billion-and-a-half speech, two and about two billion kunas a year, in fact trying to keep peace in the house and some status of the Croatian Railways, that there is no one driving on pan-European corridors or any other less regional and local directions, and that actually thinking about new railway corridors, there is no one even a slight connection. And it's still 1800 and some years ago, Bismark said that the state is as strong as its railroad. But that was obviously still to be added, but that is not worth it for Croatia. Every country and France and Germany that has so great, we saw TŽV trains, we drove in them and CE trains in Germany, so it has a certain grant to the railways because the railroad simply cannot survive without the help of the state. In the Netherlands, so the Dutch railways 33% of the Dutch railways' revenues come from non-railway traffic. So, more of those, by the way, business he's doing. In Croatia, it is determined that the railway can be engaged exclusively in the transport of cargo and passengers and nothing more. Even those railroads there and restaurants and shops that exist on the station are owned by someone else, not Croatian railways. They are most likely hired, but owners are someone other than Croatian railways. The Dutch railways do not do so, but 33% of their income was obtained precisely in those other activities which are linked or related to the activities of the railways. Now that we have built the Croatian highways and there are 1050 km, it is clear that here we have not yet built the bridge to Peljesac and thank God and we hope to build it, we have the phenomenon that the Croatian government is actually taking over these legal provisions and in Article 8, so first of all in Article 8, there are 18 billion kunas of dubiosis for Croatian highways. We made Croatian highways, left the railway and now we give them to the concession. And Croatian railways that have failed, they have failed for these 23 years of Croatian independence and for nothing various managers who come and name various governments three to four, as Italian prime ministers, are appointed managers and directors of Croatian Railways and various segments divided into 4 I would say to companies and then we have one director and another director and director. So by changing, and by the influence of the state ruling over the railway, in which the railway is actually owned, we come to the fact that these directors, directors and managers change during the term of office of one government almost every year as I say Italian prime ministers at a time when there was a political crisis in Italy, so the prime ministers changed every half year and there were elections in Italy every half year. And how can such an organization, how can such a company go forward? There were only frames you didn't have anywhere with him, but there you go. Be the manager of the Croatian Railways. And so the number of managers, officials, officials, and I don't know what he's upped into the account of the staff who worked directly in the railway business, so the engineer, the trafficker and everyone else. This material here says the national programme will bring the government of the Republic of Croatia on a proposal from the railway ministry. The national programme, therefore, which has not been built for 23 years, will set medium-term goals in construction, watch out for construction, what paradox, in 23 years, not one metre of rail track, and now we will set a medium-term goal in construction. You can imagine what we're going to determine in a situation like this, so we have to put highways in a concession, let alone build railroads that we still have to do from the budget and help. What will they build and who will build? And who's going to bring the national program? Croatian Parliament or Croatian Government, Minister or a Railway Infrastructure Director? Everything here is mixed and the Croatian Parliament is definitely delegated. He is therefore completely Croatian railways have nothing more to do with the Croatian Assembly and we here can chat and talk as much as we want and Novak and everyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47315	Don't talk about this to your colleague Grubisic. Don't tell yourself that, please. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47316	I'm sorry for the expression, but it's actually true. You're an Eppur mouv. Therefore, in Article 5 of this legislative proposal through the railway court, I would say that it says that the provision of rail transport services and the management of railway infrastructure is based on the principle of separation. Physical and fusion. Now on the principle of separation, we're going to separate the infrastructure from the one down from the one that's worse and that's traffic. So let's split up and break up and then someone might come along and buy the infrastructure on the 10th railway corridor Pan-European 10th railway corridor leading from Slovenia to Belgrade and further south towards Greece and Istanbul that is the corridor Zagreb-Vinkovci-Tovarnik is the last station in the Republic that might still be interesting for some foreign investor, concessionaire, etc. And you see on that 10th pan-European railway corridor, I would ask you here I said just before and you didn't react, sir.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47317	You're okay.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47318	Thank you very much. So on that 10th corridor, the two tracks are from Tovarnik to Novska, and from Novska to Zagreb there is only one track. Very interesting. It was made with money outside the money from abroad reconstruction of the railway Tovarnik-Vinkovci and part around Okukani was also reconstructed. But the second track track from Novska to Zagreb is still missing. Here I was explained that the second track is actually a railway from Novska via Jasenovac and Sisak for Zagreb. And this has nothing to do with the second colossium of the very frequency line Zagreb-Tovarnik. Why were two tracks made to Novska from the eastern border of Croatia? So most likely in the thinking of the then owners that exactly the Novska place of the border is some future where they will end a country that thank God has failed to reach Novska. Yes, yes, Mrs. Dragica, that's right, and you left the Parliament in '91 because of that state. But good. Therefore, in Article 8 of all powers both for the national programme and for all reports submitted by infrastructure managers shall be submitted to the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I am convinced that as they say in Dalmatia, man and donkeys know more than I am human. So I think that 151 here in the Croatian Parliament, when we are discussing the railway, we can have and know a lot more information and a lot more good and constructive data and not say and advice than the Government of the Republic itself. And because of that and because of what I have so far listed and because here you can only watch the speed of travel to the railways in Croatia. Here is the track on the 10th railway corridor, which is its average speed on the Zagreb-Vinkovci-Tovarnik move is 80km/h. So where are we? TTV in France 250km/h, Paris-Marsei 250km/h, Paris-Lion, ICE in Germany are all over 200km. Here is just proof that we did not take care of Croatian railways, that we completely abandoned them, that we transferred care to Croatian highways thanks to some lobbys that Novak spoke of very mildly and I would say much more sharply that they also acted on building Croatian highways to this extent. And then in the end, we have a dubiosis of these 18 billion earned interest on Croatian highways. And about which we have been breaking our heads for two days at this Croatian Assembly how to repay it. Do we have to monetize it or concentrate on what a better word it is? Or, and in the end, we will end up without saying this roughly and without Croatian highways. But here he is also preparing to say noose for the Croatian railways.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47319	Thank you very much. [[Thank you, too.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47320	We're not voting for... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47321	Now it's the replicas. The first replica is the respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47322	Dear counterpart Grubisic has concluded that in recent years a thousandkm of highway has been built without a single meter of railways being built. That's right. Unfortunately, however, we did not build it but we did not renew it. Not that we didn't just rebuild. We've been closing the tracks every day. So we didn't build it, we crashed it. 'Cause closing the tracks means tearing it down. At this stage of economic development, in this crash, no one took care of the railways that would connect us to the port of Rijeka. And what happened? All the work we could have done was taken over by the Slovenians. You used to talk about the speed average on certain parts of railway lines, or rail routes 80 km, driving to Čakovec there is 20 to 30. A couple of hours, you need to go 100 miles. The Marathons run to Chakovec before the train gets here. There's 200 to 300 kilometers an hour, and we're actually making a joke. Because what it is, and no one, which is interesting, no one feels responsible. For 20 years, nothing touched, just stuck it in an empty bag. Why? To preserve social peace and illusion as if something were done. And it's always been the pillar of shame, and we're giving huge money and they're not doing anything. But there weren't those who were supposed to run to do something after all.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47323	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47324	That my colleague Vuksic I was talking to on the 10th. A PAN of Europe, therefore, with an elite corridor, and a speed of 80 km. Unlike these, I say the elite corridors of the Europeans where the speed for this TTV Paris-Marseille is 250 kilometers per hour. So that's the thing. And these local stripes where you can walk past it, next to the train is you, and a little sit down and buy a burek etc., we know that you and I do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47325	A new replica and respected representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47326	Yeah, actually we're probably having a hard time talking about HH at this point, HH is actually in some way today's case, HH case. Then it associated me like this, all this weight of this situation, some of the other cases we've had since the establishment of the Croatian state, let's say we have a Vesnik, we've had a giant who's been called, a newspaper, a Vesnik in this area of Europe. Then the Vesnik case began, and after that, there was nothing left of Vjesnik but a series of successful companies that had created and shed their interests at the expense of this giant. Did we have a great company called HPT at the time of the creation of the Croatian state but today we have several other great companies but those that remained in state property are unsuccessful and all that had... today is no longer subject to Croatian state property. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Ownership of Croatian citizens. We had a giant named INA good company, didn't bother them either... It worked without a problem. They didn't have a problem with those terminals. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But after that, today we have a foreign company INA and some of the elements of that company that are set aside today by the rest of the state that the state with them is beating up, I would say. So something like that, the HEP group is still in play today, but it won't be long now if, we passed the Law, so the HEP group will slowly, slowly go into distribution and where the state will likely remain just what is unprofitable. And finally here's the HH case. HH came up with a case and from that case now the state will finally after it is distributed... that HH actually remains what will be further only on the burden of the taxpayer. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Unfortunately, there are too many of these examples in the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47327	Replicate response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47328	You said your colleague Đurovic's last sentence is unfortunately too many such examples in Croatia. Unfortunately, too many such pests in Croatia have done such jobs where private interest was more important than public interest. And there are too few trials in Croatia and there are too few Remetins in Croatia for all those who have done actually I would almost say the more difficult works. And because of the consequences that have occurred in Croatia, the Croatian people rather than almost in war destruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47329	New replica and respected representative Tomislav Žagar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47330	Thank you, Mr. President. My colleague Grubisic, first replicating that part, is related to the section of the railway between Pleternica, Caglin and Najsica, so the works have started and are planned to be completed next year. To get that railroad on the market. Equally with the railway that was closed Daruvar Celic, the body's works, some infrastructure tasks are being solved there. But I think the same next year, at least according to the statements, will be over. And as for your statement, I fully agree here on the consistency or continuity in the adoption of such documents that are key, meaning of the strategy, of the national programme. And this is exactly what you're saying, the administrations have been constantly changing, they haven't actually arrived to solve those operational things, let alone they've been thinking about strategy. And especially this way about a sensitive and complex area such as transport because when you create a Transport Strategy, you cannot bypass other areas of human activity to make it effective. You're talking about the TTV and the ones that released the speed of 575 miles an hour. True, in ideal conditions it was, but the question is, do we need such speeds? We need... something completely different or to say it the simplest, we need to get traffic back on our tracks. In order to return transport to the railways first, we need to train the railways, and they are not trained because there was no traffic. It's a vicious circle that needs to be broken, and I hope that this law at least in that part will help to solve some things because this situation is unsustainable, so the money from the state budget is pumped into the railways without any of it benefiting. People just stick to how I said in that part of the speech in the cold drive to just, that things that are currently being charged to be serviced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47331	Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47332	Dear colleague, go to France and then you will see that every city in France exists in the city, not on railway station, railway station in the city, so the railway office where you can buy a ticket for any route in France. This TTV you say may not make sense in Croatia, but look from Vinkovci to Split has 500 km, more than from Paris to Lyon, but Paris-Lyon is doing business, TŽV that 250... but I guess it shouldn't be with us. After all, this TŽV is a tourist attraction of France, and we are a tourist country, why don't we have a traffic attraction such as our highways really praised throughout the world, in Europe and everywhere. And why don't we have something like that in the railroad? I don't see any reason.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47333	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47334	Thank you very much. My colleague, you mentioned road lobbys, or you called for my exposure when I mentioned these road lobbys. Road lobbys exist everywhere, there are those in Germany and France, so that part is not controversial. There, however, the government continues to make sure that the other type of traffic does not end up being destroyed. French pride is a national TŽV. In Germany, the minister comes to work with the train, and he does it proudly. At our place I think that, with the Mercedes, yes, on a few occasions the minister of the current came on the train, I think it was more than just to show that he was a people's man, but without the real effect of the railroads. But I wanted to point out that other countries run traffic policy, have some traffic strategy, have their objectives set out. Today we are asking the question primarily of this law. I think this law is the basis for destruction to the end of the railroads. It'll be what's important to us, it'll be what's left of it. The 10th Corridor because it is now part of the trans-European network, not because we need it, because it brings us some profit, profit, does not bring anywhere but because it is the reserve direction of the 3rd corridor which is clearly far more important to Europe. We're also in that area peripheral. Those local railways that are far more important to us, our population, I'm afraid by this law we can practically forget, not that it will be cut off overnight, but in a very fast time, in a very short time we'll see that part by piece will simply disappear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47335	Thank you very much. Replica response, respected representative Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47336	My colleague Novak, you've said very well that the Minister of Germany is coming to the railways, and I'm coming on a tram to work and on the 17th. But I wanted to talk about that railway corridor on the 10th and about this 4th pan-European corridor, which is actually this corridor of our 10th railway pan-European corridor, actually the reserve corridor, in case anything happens on that corridor 4 then it can turn this way. Otherwise, the 4th rounds Croatia, as I said in the presentation and on the Committee in Europe, so the European Parliament's committee called TRAN, which means transport, shows a sketch showing Croatia in the 4th Corridor. It goes across, so when it enters the south goes Austria, Vienna, Hungary, Budapest, it goes to the Tempisvar, Sofia and goes down to Thessaloniki and Istanbul the second leg. So completely and not only is Croatia... but the countries of the former Yugoslavia have been bypassed and the Gerdap is making the largest railway bridge in the construction of Europe, in fact, the world so far. And these vermin that you and I have been talking about, that have ruined the railroad, and we've always passed some laws, and every year in the Parliament, we discuss the railroad, and we're doing our best not to tell the players. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47337	Thank you, too. We continue to discuss the clubs of representatives in the Croatian Parliament. It is next to the HNS club in the Croatian Parliament and respected representative Nada Turina-Đuric. There you go, dear MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47338	Thank you, Mr. President. Mr. Deputy with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The HNS will support the bill. No law is perfect I would dare say, and very rarely it happens that the law answers all possible questions that bring about the future, so of course this law probably didn't give answers to everything that will happen in the future with the railways in the Republic of Croatia, but surely it is one step forward that will allow the railways in Croatia as a whole to get a chance to become a modern and standardised part of the integrated European rail system. Perhaps of all the laws that we have passed a year ago in an emergency procedure, in line with the legislation of the European Union, perhaps this is one of I would dare say the most European laws. And why is that? Because the government's decision is and I have to say that the previous governments have been on this track, but this government is now on this occasion, so it's a strategic decision that future significant investment is exactly an investment that will go towards the railways, the development of railways in the Republic of Croatia. It is the fact that we expect by 2020 to invest 40 billion kuna in the railways, which means that if at best we manage to get that European component of about 85% that about 30 billion will be obtained from European funds, and there will still be 10 billion commitments from the Republic of Croatia, which is probably a good part of the loan that we will have to ask for for the component and therefore I want to say. This law is, in this sense, an extremely European law, a law that will enable these investments, and this investment, and certainly is one of the key to the future economic and overall development of the Republic of Croatia. We here today unfortunately when you are last like this or who I am already on behalf of the club then you are tempted to in one good part replicate everything that your colleagues have said because it's a lot said in five debates before me on behalf of the clubs. But I can't help but look back at some of the things that were said here. So when we talk about the railroad problem, we all know that the problem is big. In fact, 20 years simply underinvested, yet huge money was invested, i.e. the Croatian railways were given huge money as they were given to not only the railways. We still have such economic branches that unfortunately the money went to work in a larger case of political decisions, a decision to maintain social peace because they were branches that employ a large number of people. Croatian railways were definitely one of those. One of those was shipbuilding. And these decisions to end with one practice, unfortunately, have welcomed the time that we are in today. Well, then every time we talk about a law that's about just such a subject, then it's always just about how nothing happened in 20 years in that segment. The fact that it wasn't, but in some other segments it seemed. And yet we must admit that we have Croatian highways for which most of our neighbours and a good part of the EU members are very commendable that Croatia has succeeded, so despite all the problems it has had and a very long period of war and devastion of Croatia that it has managed to create such a large infrastructure project which unfortunately has not yet been completed in total, but has made it. It is very difficult to imagine that a country like this with all the problems it has had to do in this same period, in the same way, to invest in two, three larger infrastructure projects and also to have railways in the same state as there are, say, highways today. So at this point, the government is, this government has already spoken about it. The question is how much was made, but I don't think we should be wasting words today on what was meant to be done, what could have been done, etc. but you need to start working on it. This law is one of those steps. So modernising but also building railway infrastructure is a priority of this government, but also of all future governments if we commit, and we will commit through European projects. Let us hope that in 2020 there will be some years in which these projects will be seen to be launched and most of them hope and completed. Why? Because this government believes that just now investment in the railways will have a very important impact on economic recovery and above all on our potentials for our ports. I come precisely from this area where this topic has been a big topic for a very long time, meaning building a new railway line, i.e. a reconstruction of the existing and part of the construction of a new one from Rijeka according to Budapest. And it was always a question of what was before a chicken or an egg, meaning whether Rijeka Port has enough traffic or whether it will have enough traffic to build one such expensive railroad, railway, or if it is necessary to build a railroad, then the loads will come. I think that somehow the consensus arises over the need to gradually, means by 2020 to invest in this railway so that this traffic balance of the port is balanced with the railway as a service that is part of that entire traffic route and which creates the Rijeka port, i.e. transforms the Rijeka port into a competitive port but not just the Rijeka port. We still have ports in the Republic of Croatia that should be dealt with in the same or similar way with the railway right now. Of course, travel traffic is expected to improve significantly through these investments, and will ultimately have very good effects on tourism in the Republic of Croatia. Because as we know, I don't know when you see those years when we finished the first phase of major investment in Croatian highways, and the biggest growth in tourism traffic in the Republic of Croatia is happening in those years. So we've been around here for about a few years now, that growth is a few percent higher, or for some reason the bad weather might be smaller in some years, but it's spinning somewhere within a few tiny percentages. But some significant growth can only be expected by investing in transport infrastructure where not only railways but also the airport system, i.e. airports in the Republic of Croatia. The integrated integration of the entire traffic of road transport, rail transport and all other traffic which should surely then and in tourism should yield greater or better results. I could now be here like all my colleagues talking about that investment was, in fact, huge investments in the Croatian railway itself, but the effect of all this is that we have unfortunately abandoned railways, that the level of safety is bad, that the speed of traffic is below all levels of any average in the countries of our environment, that there was also an accident in which there were unfortunately victims, that in this whole system unfortunately only the employees of Croatian railways who may have been at least guilty or at least guilty of such things happening. But that's something she said I was in a past that wasn't good, or present that wasn't good. But we in HNS believe that exactly our geographical traffic position gives us the greatest chance for future development and when spoken, and in this law we talk about how to manage all segments covered by the railroad in that system, then we talk about the sale, we talk about giving up the national treasure. Now, the question is that at this point, it is our national treasure in which 40 billion kuna is to be invested in in order to become a treasure that we will use in some future period, and then maybe someone from the EU could ask us a question, we will in some way invest those 85% of the funds, we know how the funds are being poured into European funds, so some country might say what we are going to invest in some Croatian railways today that I don't know who will benefit from. Everyone here swears only on the Croatian railways. We entered the EU in 1.07, we decided on a market economy for competition in that market and it will simply work according to that model. If any of the other models had been better, and we're constantly talking about some sort of model of bargaining, the agreed economy, or I don't know how it's supposed to work where the whole time the state is going to put the money in. We see that this model is not good. So with this model, the Croatian railway was brought into this situation in which it was brought. We in HNS believe that when these opportunities are opened, it means, among other things, this law, that what should be cared for in this country and that I hope and succeed that our citizens, above all, and passengers, all who are and the burdens that go to that railway, have the best standard at the most favourable price, and that companies carrying out that activity can participate in an equal market game that will produce the best quality for the least money. That's what our country needs to strive for in that whole story. And all these stories, be careful if you invest and build railways in the Republic of Croatia simply no one can put them under their hands and take them anywhere. Only now is the question of how these contracts and the management of the entire system will be agreed. Of course, any responsible authority must do so in the interest of the country in charge. Of course, railways are dissatisfied and local self-governments that have that happiness or some accident to have railways on their premises, these are often less local self-governments that have modest means and are asked at this point to help, because our railways are not able to clean up from the snow of their space. So, the system is completely unsustainable, and if we think about it in a way that we're all going to just throw what out of the local community and that we're going to burden local committees with investing in some state-owned companies that obviously don't have a chance to self-exploit without sharper cuts, or without that competition that's going to happen in the future. There's no integrated transport with us, I've already mentioned it. Of course, workers in the Croatian Railways who are very honest most of them certainly do their job and certainly do not have a crucial business or company name to carry out the activity. Today, that company is going to be where it's going to be. I'd like it to be Croatian. And who's keeping us from being Croatian? Who prevents Djuro Djakovic and Gredel from opening up a company that will produce and put on our railways some transport company that will drive our passengers and our cargo? No one is preventing them from doing so, and from being competitive in this collision with someone from Austria, Germany or from Japan or anywhere else. No one's stopping her. We need to understand that since 1.07, we have been EU members and that there is no more talk about feeding businesses as a state in this way as we have fed them so far and that they are still unsuccessful. I'm running out of time, so I'm gonna stop now. Maybe in the replica, I'll say something else that I meant in the discussion. In any case, the HNS will support the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47339	Let's get a replica. The first replica and respected representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47340	Thank you very much. You've had 15 minutes for this, and I've got two minutes and so much I've written down. This is how you mentioned investment, so I'm going to tell you, for example, the German state separates for German railways annually 300 euros per capita, given that there are 82 million of them coming out about 25 billion and something, means over 25 billion euros per year. If we take into account their gross national income or ratio with our 4.5 million inhabitants and our gross national income, that would be at an annual level of 540 million euros or 4 billion kuna so much about investment data. You've been saying 20 years not to invest. Just to tell you, 40 years since the '80s, I've stopped investing in the railroad system, and everything else has come down to some kind of help. You mentioned the pride of investing in the road, I agree with that, but it was the same shrill were political decisions not made by experts, the profession no one asked anything about it because, say, the highway to Sisak I was from Sisak would never build would be a fast road. This is what I'm saying since you're from the Traffic Committee, I assume you know the cost ratio of the fast road and the highway. This law does not even solve financing as much as it creates additional problems, it will transfer the possibility of local self-government financing and we all know how local self-government stands except for the city of Zagreb, all others are what our favorite fruit in bananas would say. And the Germans went to the competition but they found ways to protect national carriers and national interests. So if we're going to treat them, I don't mind, but then we should treat them in that part too. You mentioned that we are constantly pursuing some agreed economy in the EU, the same agreed economy, and they have limited what you can't do that you can't do that you can't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47341	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Marijan Skurić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47342	Thank you, Mr. President of the Parliament. Well, here's what I'd really like to do, and I'd like to point out that all those things you said in your presentation would be particularly highlighted by three. The first is that there is indeed a problem with long-term non-investment in the railways, but it is now proven in these discussions today that not only have many almost fallen from Mars but are still living on this Mars because they are wondering who did it now. Indeed, the fact that railways that should be of public good and serve public interest at this point absolutely do not meet their obligation. On the other hand, you mentioned that local self-governments are very much in line with the railway because the railway must be used for development primarily of freight transport for the development of the economy and at the same time for the development of passenger transport. If we can't have the possibility that our people can travel and work somewhere else or get to some other values we can't be. Let’s just say that, above all, we have defined by means of timetables that are absolutely impossible to travel for example. If you put that train leaving one city at 22 hours and 5 minutes then I don't know who's gonna make it in five minutes to get on that train and get back home then of course these people either have to quit or look for the source of the transport and then the railroad says here you see no people and then we'll end up stopping it. What I'm saying is that what you've mentioned now is an opportunity for us to make it a development from the EU funds. If we've made our own roads, we shouldn't have railroads. That's what we need to have expertise, will and brains for, and I think that's what we have. And here we would mention the EU fund as best we can stress what is out there proven integrated transport here is not mentioned, we should stress on it that is what is the best solution for the development of the railway within the framework of cooperation and with bus transport and with all other things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47343	Thank you, too. New replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47344	Dear colleagues called us populists and demagogues. You said one sentence repeated several times by Minister Linic, "So no one will pack the roads in their suitcases and take them out." You really think we're shortsighted, that we're stupid. They will profit from it, so they will not carry the sea nor to the shore, so why do We protect them? So who's gonna take the coast and pack it up in a suitcase and leave. No one's gonna take it, no one's gonna just make a profit. The capital is interested in profit, they're not interested in anything else. You're saying we've decided on a competition but by the rules, others are protecting their economy of all countries, now colleague Novak has said. And not to be mistaken, you're all talking about privatization only the UK privatized the railways and it wants to bring it back. You'd sell out everything because that's what Europe is looking for. No one's asking to be privatized, no one's asking. Inability to sell is not knowing how to get on your feet. It's a confession, let's sell it all. So what doesn't try, let's bring in some other government and that... just that no one would buy probably. It's not true, and the game has its own rules. We play without rules. Our rule is just a rule of cuddling, who's going to steal more, who's going to get more profit. It's been working for 20 years systematically, at least this government is to blame for it, because it's only been for a year and a half at least. Other governments worked. But Racan's government, or the government of the Kukuriku coalition from 2000 to 2003, what did she do with the railroad? Nothing. The other thing when it comes to the railroad is to think about the economy. In Europe, 80% of the cargo is driven by rail, and 20% of the cargo is driven by roads. In our case, 20% of the railroad is now probably even less, and 80% of the road and that's not good and that's why the river is lagging behind, so Kopar is what it was supposed to be, Rijeka has become Kopar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47345	Thank you very much. A reply to the replica by the respected representative Nada Turina Đuric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47346	My colleague Vuksic, after all, you mention all the time selling, I don't think it's about selling anything. As far as I understand it, I think we have experience on some projects where certain activities are given to managing where certain activities are put into concessions, where the state always has that capital, the resource of space and what is embedded in that simply retains. Now it's just a question and I agree with you that some are likely to make good contracts about that management and some are unable to do so. Or some of them were able to do the same, so they asked for some extra, extra fees. Because everything was in the past. However, we have not yet been in that situation, let us as a position, I am here in front of the position and I say that when we are such contracts, we work to prove that if the robbery of Croatia and Croatian citizens has been carried out to process us in the places where they are being prosecuted for such actions, all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. And not to accuse us in advance of being thieves who will steal, sell or do not know what to do to harm the citizens of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47347	Thank you very much. New replica, Honored Vice President of Dom Milorad Batinic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47348	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Turina-Đurić, you said no law is perfect, yes, exactly. And it's going to be very difficult for anyone to give the perfect law to. It's simply because the law is carried out by people. The railroad system is also made up of people. The law can also make me happy with this Law. It provides one, one new dimension within the legislative framework in its own actions, implementation, functioning of the railway system. Namely, here's an example from practice. Quality indicator system. A fellow Skvaric also mentioned something. Determination of agendas, timetables, pardon me. The timetable was unacceptable to me. I don't know, maybe that's how it works. The unions agreed on the agenda. In the market economy. When the rail system itself has to adapt to its users, so to the carriers, passengers, railway users, unions give and what happens then? Then it happens that the train leaves at what time, the workers who depend on the train since they work in the processing industry can't get on that train, use more expensive transport and the train goes. And now that I've asked for an explanation why. Well, for that reason, because the engineer and I don't know, I can just come back with that line. You'll excuse me, it's me, I got up in the ministry, I almost blew up, and I told people you weren't normal. Literally. The same example after 10 hours of a ramp that was descending by a hand train passes to no one. People say, "What's going on here?" So to say the worker is working time to 10, said who's responsible for that transport. So says the engineer will come out to you and see if he gets through that street in my city. Of course I've got the police and the police on my feet and everything together, and then they found some volunteer who went there to pick it up. So the law is good, but it's the law that needs to be implemented. And that's why system restructuring needs to be done in accordance with the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47349	Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate of deputies for 10 minutes. It's the honorary representative Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47350	Thank you, Your Honor. Well, the fact is that Croatia... a modern, high-quality and efficient railway. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] This is a necessary prerequisite for both economic development and environmental protection and for meeting the climate requirements ahead of us and towards the European Union and towards the international community. And to raise quality service and passenger safety. The current situation in this area is tragic. The system is burdened with corruption tails, thefts, obstructions, war of interest clans, incompetence of administrative personnel. And when we move out of the area of human resources and finance in the area of system equipment, we have no reason to be optimistic because the infrastructure has been abandoned, and the driving couple are old and uncompetitive. But even if we had the best and most modern trains, they'd be collecting dust in storage because our tracks simply couldn't transport. It is indisputable that the rail system in Croatia needs a thorough reform, not only in the area of rail infrastructure, which is the most concerned by this Law but also in the field of services and transport. And there is only one thing I would like to say here is that any political option in power today in Croatia is of course of those who support Croatia's entry into the EU, or who supported Croatia's entry into the EU, all these political options would have to comply with this Law, that is, our legislation in this area with the package of directives relating to this area. I stress that I am certainly not against the liberalisation of the rail market because I believe that transparent liberalisation under strict control of an independent regulator can lead to a rise in quality and service security and a fall in service prices for users. For liberalisation to lead to such results we have seen, for example, some other sectors that have broken long-term monopolys of some powerful players, such as the elimination of monopolys in the area of telecommunications or the breaking of monopolys on the tax and services market throughout a number of Croatian cities. And the liberalisation of the electricity market will also certainly lead to a reduction in the price of electricity services. We already have a slow opportunity to convince ourselves of that. Diversifications of supply, possibilities for buying more environmentally acceptable electricity are produced in renewable energy sources and the like. In other words, competition is good for consumers or end-users. But I share the concerns of my opposition colleagues regarding ownership of the railway infrastructure. In no way does this Law say that the existing railway infrastructure is 100% state-owned and that it is not possible to privatise it. In fact, I believe that the railway infrastructure is also the infrastructure that enters the area of the so-called area. natural state monopolies and it is crucial for the state to have full control over that monopoly. I believe there is no big difference between the status of network activities in the area of the electricity sector compared to the status of railway infrastructure in the status of the railway sector. I stress that the obligations of liberalisation and one relationship, i.e. giving equal conditions for all potential rail users, relate to those who will use rail infrastructure, but not to the availability of infrastructure itself. It is indisputable that certain railways are not used and are located in locations that can and should be used for other purposes, mainly for economic purposes, by launching new production capacities and so on, but I am not sure how this law should be dealt with. The construction of railway infrastructure is a very expensive, demanding and complicated job and I do not believe that it will be very important by private investors for these projects, unless we are talking about specialized industrial railways. It is therefore necessary to differentiate the rail infrastructure that enters the area of so-called ‘the railway infrastructure’ in law. the natural state monopoly and emphasise that the company that will manage the infrastructure will be in 100% state ownership without the possibility of privatisation. And now I'm going to look back at a few specific articles of the law. First, on Article 8, I agree with my fellow opposition that the adoption of the National Programme of Railway Infrastructure should be within the competence of the Croatian Parliament because it is a strategic document, not an implementing document, such as a medium-term or annual plan of construction, modernisation, reconstruction and maintenance of railway infrastructure. Furthermore, in Article 16, I believe that this article would be completely different if the government had determined for the concept of the separation of railway infrastructure in a special company owned by a state without the possibility of privatisation, i.e. that it would then have relations between so-called companies. the infrastructure manager and railway undertakings were completely transparent and it would not be possible to overlap. In Article 58, I believe that it should explicitly determine that the regulator in this sector is a market rail regulation agency. And at the very end of the exhibition, I would remind you that the Kukuriku coalition, by the words of the opposition and pre-election period, has promised not to privatise the so-called "Privatise". natural monopolies, which refers to rail infrastructure, and this law does not decidably prevent such a possibility in the future, not in the term of office of this government, but perhaps in the mandates of some future governments, and this can be dangerous.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47351	Thank you very much. Let's go to the replicas. Dear Representative Branko Vuksic, the first replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47352	Dear fellow Holly, you said one sentence some stripes are not used so it should be used for industrial purposes. I don't entirely agree with that. Let's just say why people don't drive by rail, why there's no traffic, why they drop year after year. You know how much to drive from Rijeka to Delnice, hour and 45 minutes. From Rijeka to Delnica is 45 km, hour and 45 minutes. To Čakovec, someone mentioned earlier that the German minister was travelling by train to work. Imagine that the German minister from Čakovec is traveling to Zagreb for work. Well, he only needs one day to come back from Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47353	It would be good for Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47354	Yeah. We'd be driving on a train. Who wouldn't drive from Rijeka to Zagreb by train if the train traveled for an hour and 15 minutes, it's a speed of 150 km/h, it's not 250 or 300 Japanese, just 150 km. Sit down, read the newspaper, prepare for a meeting, come to the center of Zagreb, return to the center of Rijeka. So no one thought. I agree with my colleague Novak when he said the roads were built shrillly, they were political paths that we would never return, so now we need to "mononetize". Infrastructure, which is generally fully agreed, must not be privatised. Remember what happens in European cities that privatized the water network. Catastrophe, 10 times she's collected water, the cities are buying back for heavy water net money. I'm just wondering when we and the air will start, we'll say now we'll sell, now we'll monetize the air. Says no one, that'll be by the book. So now the Finns aren't coming to write us laws and write contracts. The Finns won't write, the Croats, we, we'll write the contracts, and we're burned. And there were always other people writing contracts, and every time they wrote those contracts after that, we still don't know what's in the contracts that were signed 15 years ago, and how we're gonna know about this. So, we're smoking cold.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47355	Thank you very much. Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47356	Dear colleague, obviously I wasn't very clear in my debate. This does not apply to passenger railways but relates to certain specific railways used in previous periods for certain industrial purposes and which are no longer in operation due to the decommissioning of certain plants, but are still being carried out as railways and railway infrastructures. I therefore believe that in these circumstances it is perfectly reasonable to no longer run these railways as a railway infrastructure but to allow other economic projects to occur at these locations if there is an interest in such a thing. I was approached by some people who were interested in such projects and who could not simply implement those projects precisely because of the current legislation. I suppose the adoption of this law will, however, open this possibility and in some ways, launch economic projects that will lead to the creation of new jobs. That's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47357	New replica and respected representative Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47358	Thank you very much. You said at one point that in any case infrastructure managers must be, only infrastructure must remain state-owned and infrastructure managers must be national firms. This law stipulates that there are more infrastructure managers on the network. Surely the state will no longer create a company that will deal with the same work at different locations. Now there's one, and there's no reason to have more. There's absolutely no logical reason to be more of them unless it's intended to be something else, and the intention is part of the railroad, part of it writes, writes. What is important in this respect is Article 17, which states what the obligations of the infrastructure manager are. The second is to determine the amount of infrastructure fees. So, when someone takes a concession, gets a certain move as infrastructure manager, then he determines what is the infrastructure charge they're going to be driving along that track, it has to be for all of them. But it doesn't say anywhere that he can't be a carrier on that track. And that's not the same position for everyone anymore. However, for example, these basic functions do not indicate that this infrastructure manager should deal with the management of the rail infrastructure security system and the protection of railway infrastructure. In my opinion, I put it in the amendment, and I think it should be his basic function. This fee might even be fairer for me to determine the Railway Market Regulatory Agency, but given the experience we have with him, I would take it away from them as far as possible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47359	Thank you very much. Replicate response, the esteemed representative of Mirela Holly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47360	Dear colleague, we agree on the property of the railway infrastructure. I think it's a private monopoly and it should never be allowed to be the subject of any kind of privatisation or anything like that. However, I believe that this relationship between the railway infrastructure manager and ultimately those companies that will transport to the railways is defined through Article 16 where the infrastructure manager is responsible for his own management and so on, and then writes here if the infrastructure manager and the railway carrier are a member of the governing body of the ruling company and member of the blah, blah, blah, blah cannot be a member of the governing body of the ruling society. I think it would be quite easier to regulate it if it were defined that the meaning of the railway infrastructure could be within the framework, meaning a company that is 100 percent owned by the Republic of Croatia that was completely separate from what was once a vertically formed company and then would not have such opportunities happen, and of course the regulator has to take care that the rules of the game are respected and that the game is fair.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47361	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47362	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, my colleague Holly, I noticed your claim about the possibilities of cheaper and environmentally acceptable electricity, so I believe that if I may have not connected correctly, please clarify. But I don't think any citizen in our country will accept this cheaper electricity. But now I'm surprised, I can't figure out how now that our HEP has suddenly come forward, he says, "Now we're going to blow our electricity by 6%." What? Well, then there was no need to raise it if it wasn't like that or it says that we paid a higher price of electricity needlessly. But the other thing I noticed, which is because you emphasized the importance of the railroad both in terms of strategic and economic recovery and all that stands. And that was also in Plan 21 mostly this low-level railroad. And now I don't get it, all of a sudden she's giving up her lowlife, so it's hill valley what's the name of that combination. I'm the only one who doesn't know whose part it's going to be. This hill will probably be stately, this valley where it's cheaper and easier to maintain it will be someone else. I cannot understand at all why such an important strategic project has been given up because it is really important in these circumstances for us and for economic recovery and development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47363	Thank you, too. We continue with an individual debate, and it is up to the honourable representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47364	Thank you very much, Your Honor, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant. I'm going to start by answering my distinguished representative, Mirella Holly, because I couldn't answer any more. Article 3 of the Law speaks when Article 16 is not applicable. So now we've solved that dilemma. So it could be the same operator and the same infrastructure manager. Therefore, the situation comes into consideration that we practically give in a concession for 50 years, let's disprove or declare it no longer a public good and we privatise it and then it's not a public good anyway, it does what it wants and the carrier is on that part. This law honestly gives me, I really think this is a law of dangerous intent, most serious. It's not what you'd say would have to say something attractive to be transmitted. I think the intentions of this law are really dangerous, and I think it follows, that we are on a journey that the United Kingdom or England have been doing in its own time, more appropriate when they started privatising the railroads. The same thing in the world was done only by another state of Argentina. Argentina doesn't even have railways today, the UK bought them back in far worse shape, railways that haven't been maintained for 10 years, but at a far higher amount, it had to buy them out. If we're really that much, I don't know if we're gonna take the label, it's something liberal, it's something good, and then in 10 years, we're gonna realize that what we know now, but we don't dare admit to ourselves that it's true after all. I don't think this is in the interest of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, but it's certainly not in the interest of the state as a whole. Now if it weren't for me to just criticize, I think that through my debate on behalf of the club I'm a couple, let's say the partial solutions offered. The 35-metre Lichanka Bridge is a tremendously small investment compared to the total investment of the low-level railway for Rijeka. But in the meantime, that bridge would solve a lot of things. If you're going to buy modern locomotives that cost now, the price has fallen, somewhere around 4 million euros. If you're buying those locomotives first and foremost, you can't even get them right away. I think that now there are Austrians giving 15 locomotives for 60 million euros, I think it's current. There's a possibility that even those locomotives could be rented if you remember last year there were eight ships standing in Bakru, I'm sorry there's no Mayor Bakar here, we lost on the boat... and there were wagons, foreign wagons, rent foreign locomotives. The penalty we paid strangers for the delay we didn't drive for free, we lost every ton, don't hold my word, but I think 7 kunas are transported. And these are the conditions in which this firm operates and which are imposed on it. It's not a voluntary choice. And then at that time, when it was known that these eight ships were coming into the copper of scattered cargo, then we introduced 72-hour prisons on the riverbed. Well, then you have a situation that, apart from the railroad being self-inflicted with the load, then they shut you down for three days and you can't drive. But no one's doing them any harm, no one's doing them any harm. And then we say what they make to share. I don't really know how they could share it. As far as financing the freeways or corridor lines is concerned, I think the most correct expression is part of the trans-European network. I absolutely support funding from EU funds and that is only normal, it is not at all controversial. But believe me, there is a way to withdraw funds from the EU for both local and regional railways. I'm the only one who hasn't seen it before, maybe I don't have all the information, that anyone's raised that question. Do you know that German railways with eight different levels finance their railroads? A German state with eight different levels. Well, I don't know about taxes or taxes from some kind of energy or environmentalist, so I don't know how to protect nature from all over the place for that part. But that's part of the traffic policy, that's some strategy that has a goal, has a vision, has even some degree of degree that you can do in which part. Normally no one can do anything, from tomorrow we'll have a low-rise track, and we'll have 200 SIMENS locomotives or I don't know... It's known that's impossible and we can't do that. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] As for counterpart Batinic, he mentioned the timetable, the unions gave consent to the timetable. I've been in that system too long to know what's going on out there, but that's the easiest excuse. And your schedules are policy-making, so they tell you to stop 20% of the trains that are the most inert and then you realize that the number of passengers is being removed from each train, you realize that the train to Zagreb is full in the morning from Zaprešić, but the one from Zagreb for Zaprešić is not, and we will stop it. So what are you gonna do with it? What are you gonna pay back? What means are you going to take this next one? It is this problem that we have received very many staffs which the railway system does not understand at all and they would all like to have not know at 6am from Koprivnica, from Varazdin, from Karlovac, from Sisak, from Bjelovar at 6 o'clock all trains are leaving for Zagreb and must be all with sufficient capacity to cover all needs. That's impossible. And at the same time let's cancel these counters because they're going empty. So they go empty to go back in the first place. He's mentioned here as "Gredel" and "Concar." A little over a year ago, I warned about a situation that was about to happen. There is no passenger transport today, the question is what will happen to that competition whether it will be, it will not be, perhaps now we will hear feedback, there is no guarantee that this competition will be received by our producers, but at that time I was saying that we are some really arranged state then our government would also offer these trains in Qatar, when they are already going to Qatar, and I don't know both in Bulgaria and Romania and Macedonia and Kosovo. Kosovo also has its own railway. Both in Montenegro and I don't know Albania. Okay, we can't break into a market where Siemens keeps everything or... but why don't we go where we can? And they'd be willing to agree to that. But it can't be done either "Gredel", or "Connectioner." It must be done by a representative of the government, they themselves do not have that weight. The national programme and strategy I know as far as I know the last strategy is from '99. A traffic strategy, and if I'm wrong, I'd beg someone to correct me, but it should cover all of this that I've talked about and the goals and the ways so far and what we actually want from that railroad and whether we want it eventually. The adoption of this law will make it easier to access, according to this text, easier access to the Republic of Croatia through rail transport services in the EU. I'd like someone to explain this to me, which makes it easier for the Republic of Croatia to enter the railway market. Nothing at all. I don't understand what I asked at the beginning of the question, which is the purpose of introducing more infrastructure managers but it really says there are more, it's really unclear to me unless it's exactly what I was saying. Article 17, which I mentioned earlier, is more important to me than the basic functions of the infrastructure manager are not mentioned at all, I stated it in the amendment, so I ask you to at least consider whether they are more important than who will determine the price.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47365	Thank you very much. We have replicas. Now we'll start with the replicas. The first replica and respected representative Branko Vuksic. More important than who will set the price.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47366	Dear colleague Novak, you said it was a law of dangerous intent, I will repeat that it seems to me to be a law of clear intent with dangerous consequences and with dangerous consequences for the sovereignty of the Republic of Croatia. Before, a colleague from the HNS told us to charge them in advance. I said we smoke cold. When it's already sold, and the 50-year concession, I'm sorry, don't mess with it, it's a sale. What the railroads and concessions look like is good is no one's going to buy railroads in this condition, and that's our only happiness. The coalition 21 plan and the government programme stood if you remember the construction of a fast track from the Hungarian border to Rijeka. That was one of the priority assignments. If any of the priorities of the government and for the importance of the development of the Republic of Croatia, then it starts working not from the first month but from the first second. Then I guess when you point out in the program that you've won the election, that means you're ready for that game, but now that we're making some kind of law of dangerous intent we're making. Already in the second part of the second year of ruling this government. Therefore, they were all empty now I dare tell demagogue stories because nothing was done. I remember even pictures of trains coming out in the paper to travel. I already thought I'd be driving to River River 200 km/h this year. First of all, no strategy was made, you were wondering how to finance the rail networks that should be local. You need to make a strategy. Which means carrying 80% of the cargo from the roads to the railways, as much as we can increase, which means for the Rijeka harbor someone should have explained it to us before the law was passed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47367	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47368	Thank you very much. Well, I'll start at the end. Isn't that what we already believe we all agreed on the very fact that every law goes into emergency procedure and even last night, and even the one about tobacco products, isn't that saying enough about and the seriousness of this government but also about the way it understands even the opposition but it's also about what the purpose of the Parliament is, if the gross decision of this law is no longer going to be in Parliament, I don't see then the purpose of what Parliament is then a sufficient government will choose I don't know 20 ministers in the government it will go to direct elections and this everything else is unnecessary. I forgot the beginning, it's good.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47369	That's fair to admit. New replica and respected representative Stjepan Milinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47370	Thank you, Mr. President. Well, colleague Novak here is that... maybe it reminds you that it was nice for me to listen to your debate because you can see that you know the matter and understand every passenger from Koprivnica, from Kotoriba from any other place that feels these problems every day. I remember from the last call when a colleague kept auding to the catastrophic state that these were Indian trains, etc. There are many shares, and today these conditions of train traffic have not changed. But I'm particularly glad that you've reiterated the importance of a low-level railroad, which was, in the open, a thick undertone in Figure 21, was like one of the projects of the mother of all the vertebral projects, whatever you call it, but here you can see how this ends now in the hill valley like this, it seems to me in some way that the election campaign promises the hills and the valleys and you end up in the abyss. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47371	The reply to the replica is the esteemed representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47372	Thank you very much. Is that exactly what my colleague mentioned program 21 that was what I couldn't remember. So it was in the 21st railway program they're moving right away, which is what I don't know priority I think is that one of the things that if I'm not mistaken about the 4 priorities was investment in the railways and building a railroad that my colleague mentioned from Rijeka to the Hungarian border. But the problem is not even difficult not to believe in pre-election promises in pre-election programmes. But last year, in May, we discussed here the law on the division of Croatian railways, the law on amendments to the Law on the division of Croatian railways. That's when I said it was actually a cover. They explained that this is the reason for the law being passed just to divide the company says tow trains into two parts of passenger and freight, and in fact it was the basis for future privatisation because there was a decision to change the proper form of society on its own. When I said that, I don't even have a phonogram from that session, I'm telling the truth, I'm making it up, I'm spreading panic. And what happens? Yesterday, the finance minister for this speaker says HZ Cargo is going for sale, without any fence, he said it. Then who manipulated, who lied falsely, who invented it. That's what worries me more. Let's forget that pre-election program, OK. Pre-election times, some tend even to exaggerate like Plan 21, some of which were a little more realistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47373	Clausula rebus sic stantibus. New replica Branko Bačić, a respected representative.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47374	Thank you, Mr. President. You are right, colleague Novak, Article 4 is prescribed who is the manager of the railway infrastructure and may be one or more legal persons assigned to the management of part of the railway network. But if the government thinks about such a model it is then a simple model that we have in public roads where there are highways, where there are highways Rijeka-Zagreb, where there is Bina-Istra, highway Zagreb-Macelj and so on. So then there are state roads that run state roads, so there are county road administrations, so there are cities and municipalities that run unclassified roads, etc., etc. In this sense, I did not understand the spirit of this Law, and I do not think it is good that the state leaves any segment of network management, railways in Croatia, and has a large, large number of possible managers. I realized that this possibility, that some other legal person besides the manager, in this case HZ infrastructure manages part of the railway infrastructure that it is on the trail of the other one I do not know the item in that article where it is said, for example, in ports where there are also railways and railway infrastructures can manage the port administrations of that railway infrastructure. Therefore, if the Government intends to manage several managers with railway infrastructure, then one corridor is managed by one, the other, the third, etc., etc., then this Law is not absolutely adapted. And I don't think this law could serve in that sense. I, here until your debate lived in conviction and it would be good to have us on this and the Deputy Minister to indicate whether it is indeed the Government's intention to make several new HZ infrastructures in Croatia or whether it is the only manager on both international and local railways in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47375	Thank you very much. The answer of the esteemed representative Mladen Novak. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47376	To be honest, I'm a dozen people from HZ whose opinion I'm up to, I'm asking them to read the same thing clean to see without any suggestions. Read that part to hear your thinking, maybe I'm really starting to take the wrong direction, so then you know it's hard to reorient after that. All 10 people or 10 people got the same conclusion, came to the same conclusion as me. But I am extremely glad that here, in this phonogram of the last time I have, I agree with our position and the distinguished representatives of Zgrebec and the esteemed representatives of Ingrid Antičević and today respected MPs of Mirela Holy that they are against the sale of railways, i.e. railway infrastructure. I hope that this time he will agree with his opinion that he will not, not on Friday, but on Monday, raise his hand in his new opinion that he will hear in the meantime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47377	Thank you, too. Finally, on behalf of the proposer, Deputy Minister, Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, the respected Zdenko Antešić. Here you go, final word.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47378	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. Here I listened carefully to the debate in it, and it was said a lot about the railroad. So the railroad was said quite a bit in this Law. So somehow, somehow maybe, maybe you could ask yourself a question before, before we specifically go to these questions that are being asked here. Why are we even in line with the directives, that is, the legislation of the European Union? Because, in fact, the intensity, that is, the meaning of this Law, is to comply with the package of directives, the European Union railway package. And that's exactly why it's right, that's exactly this law. So we must, or we must, apply to Croatian legislation the basis of the directive on rail transport which is in force in the European Union. And that's it. Therefore, this implies the full liberalisation of rail transport and the rental of routes under non-discriminatory conditions for all potential users. The availability of railway routes to all users because, in fact, national states are no longer borders, they are no longer borders of rail systems. And that's it. And we are as far as we all know from July 1st, so here are 12 days of the European Union and, of course, I have to act accordingly, of course, taking maximum care of my national interests and that is not disputed. In fact, this Law is in fact not different from the Law which is now in force, so this Proposal for a Law is no different from that of the Law which is already in force in the Republic of Croatia. But he does, so he does the following in an important way. Infrastructure is a public good in general use and is owned by the Republic of Croatia. Therefore, the infrastructure and the state is taken care of by it, so the Croatian state takes care of it, and according to the regulations itself, it will manage and rent non-discriminatory conditions for potential users, so to all. So today we are all, the European Union is us, so it is us, we are not just Croatia, we are the European Union, and that is the way to look at things. And this law also regulates relations between us and third countries, which are countries that are not in the European Union. So once again I underline, the infrastructure is public good in general use and it is owned by the Republic of Croatia and therefore everything about this thanks to God especially people of legal professions know what it means. Of course, that's where the other one comes in. There was talk of possible, there was talk of sales. There's no sale of that, so I guess that's clear, so by this act itself, it's defined, and this provision is said there's no sale of infrastructure under any conditions. The state of Croatia also takes care of passenger transport, so it systematically regulates passenger transport, and freight transport is a business issue and therefore HZ-Cargo published goes for sale. So it's a business issue and it's regulated by this law. The question of the manager is regulated by the articles in this law of 15th and hence, this law to make it clear and unequivocally clear, so the possibility of more managers on the routes is envisaged, not just one. Today at this point it's HZ-Infrastructure, she's the manager, she has the role of infrastructure manager. It is foreseen under certain conditions that several managers may be able to manage, and that is why I speak clearly and unequivocally from this pay phone. The issue of industrial colossals, the issue of colossals in ports and such specific areas is also defined, there are managers in the port port administration area, in the area of some other areas again, but they must enable, therefore, they must, based on the provisions of this law, provide smooth access to their colossians if there is a public interest. As far as planning and maintenance of infrastructure is concerned, Article 8 states, therefore, the highest in rank, so to speak, is the Transport Development Strategy adopted by the Assembly. On the basis of this, the National Programme for Railway Infrastructure adopted by the Government and on the basis of the mid-term development plan adopted by the Infrastructure Manager shall be adopted. So these are coordinated processes starting from the Croatian Parliament to the level of the medium-term plan, to the infrastructure manager. Here have been a few amendments that we will, of course, consider with due consideration and make clear of them by the time of the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47379	Thank you very much. At the final presentation, we have two replicas reported. First respected representative, Mladen novice. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47380	Thank you very much, Vice President. Deputy Minister, the directive has no obligation to divide companies anywhere. She only commits to financial separation, financial separation. Therefore, you are referring to something as was the case in 2005 when the Law on the division of Croatian railways was passed which caused direct damage. You're referring to something that doesn't stand. Public well-being, Article 13. The government can say when something is no longer public good is not privatisation, so it will not be privatised to the railway while it is public good, but the government is making a decision that tomorrow is not a public good and makes a decision on privatisation. It's the same story we had a year ago about the Company Division Act inside HH. And I'm extremely glad that you had the opportunity to hear what I asked the question, all the time speaking in the debate, more infrastructure manager means exactly what I was saying, which was obviously hard for all of us to believe, but obviously it is, because you yourself have confirmed that it is. And one more thing only, the strategy you mention is the obligation, Article 8, to be brought by the Parliament. Article 8 does not mention a single word strategy, but therefore speaks about the National Programme adopted by the Government. Well, I mean, there's really no point in any more being a council or any other body, moving everything to the government, from the government to any commissions or agencies, and that's it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47381	Second replica and esteemed colleague Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47382	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, I have no doubt about what Mr. Novak says won't be possible anymore. I was mistaken when I thought that the basic railway infrastructure would only be managed once, and those more that it would be practically port administrations or large factory plants where there are independent colossals like that famous DEOKI's. However, you have now confirmed that there will be more managers of the basic railway infrastructure. Well, then this law is absolutely not adapted to it. Listen now, neither is the government, and Mr. Novak here is no longer right either. Now the government no longer decides on medium-term development and construction plans for railway infrastructure. I was convinced that now, according to this poorer law, it would also be one state administrator who would then propose a medium-term plan and an annual plan, and the government would be the national programme. But now there may be a situation where there are 15, 20, I have no idea, I can be 2, 3, 5. So now 5 managers will propose 5 Croatian medium-term plans to build Croatian railway infrastructure or perhaps 18 annual plans. Because every manager brings up his own infrastructure management and maintenance plan. That's not the case in the roads. In the roads, the government brings together a medium-term and annual plan, a four-year plan and an annual plan to manage and build public roads in the Republic of Croatia and when it comes to highways and when it comes to Croatian roads, the government brings. And now, with this law, we're saying that 15 managers will bring 15 medium-term and 15-year-old plans. This law is no longer in the spirit of what the Deputy Minister has told us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47383	Thank you. And that concludes the debate on the text of the law. We'll vote when we get the terms, so Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47384	Final draft law on railways, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 436. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and Honorable Representative Mladen Novak. I would like the representative of the motionor, the Honored Minister Sinisha Hajdas Doncic, to show himself about amendment of Legislative Committee No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47385	Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Therefore, Amendment number one of the Legislative Committees shall be adopted in accordance with Article 23.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47386	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment number two to Article 65 of the same Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47387	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47388	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment number three to Article 67
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47389	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47390	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. We're moving on to the amendments of Honored Representative Mladen Novak. Amendment number one to Article 4.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47391	It is not accepted because the purpose of adopting a new law lies precisely in the need of the implementation of the European Parliament and of the Council Directive since 2012, so on November 21st 2012 on the establishment of a single European railway area, which in a unique way regulates the area of rail transport in the EU, which implies the obligation to fully comply with domestic legislation with EU legislation. For this reason, the removal of the proposed would mean a derogation from that Directive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47392	Thank you very much. Proposer of the amendment, honourable representative Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47393	Thank you very much. I must tell you what I told the deputy what you said is not a directive at all, so this is not the application of the directive, unfortunately. What I must warn the parliamentary deputies last week was debated on the state budget, so you rightly warned your HDZ colleagues that by not reacting, you did not bring Croatia into this situation. Now I'm going to tell you that this law is in '94. The year was brought by Great Britain. That's when the British railroads cost the state about 800 million pounds. In 2002, the amount of over £6 billion was the result of the adoption of such a law. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47394	Please state by amendment one respected representative of Mladen Novak who is not accepted by the government. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you very much. We're going to Amendment number two of the same MPs to Article 8 of the Honored Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47395	It is not accepted for reasons of operationality, acceleration of the procedure of adoption.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47396	On behalf of the promoter, the esteemed representative Mladen Novak, on behalf of himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47397	Thank you very much. It's about the adoption of a national programme. Is it more normal for a national program to bring anyone besides the Parliament? The promoter may be a ministry, it may be a government, but is it most normal that when it comes to a national programme to be brought by this Parliament. Please plead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47398	Please state the amendment to the number two respected representative of Mladen Novak, which the government does not accept. Who's in? I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. We are moving on to Amendment number three of Honored Representative Mladen Novak as well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47399	Article 13 shall not be adopted because of the operationality of decision-making. The same is therefore necessary to be transferred to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because due to the procedure, the Croatian Parliament was unnecessarily burdened, since in most cases it was a matter of removing the status on particles of extremely small squares. So, mostly according to the demands of natural persons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47400	An indication of the applicant for the amendment of the respected Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47401	Thank you very much. Where does it say it's a little square? It says it's about abolishing, taking away public goods, which means that any railway, which, for temporary reasons, is temporarily suspended traffic, will be suspended public goods status, and there are you who come from such railways, from such areas, and the government simply makes a decision that this is no longer a public good, this is no longer the need of a railway. Traffic is lifted permanently. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47402	Please state the amendment number three of the respected representative of Mladen Novak who is not accepted by the government. Who's in? Thank you very much. He didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number four of the same representative, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47403	Article 17 is therefore not accepted because the basic functions of the infrastructure manager are precisely defined by the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 November 2012 assessing the independence of the infrastructure manager and it is important to be managed by legal persons who themselves do not provide any rail transport service, and the management of the safety system is not a function that should be fundamental to the independence of the infrastructure manager. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47404	The applicant for the amendment is a respected representative of Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47405	If one of the basic functions of the manager and the infrastructure is not to protect the railway infrastructure, then I don't know what it is. The most logical thing is to protect what is still the property of the Republic of Croatia. If it's not one of his basic tasks, I don't really know what he's supposed to be. Please vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47406	Please state the amendment to the number four respected representative of Mladen Novak, which the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I estimate he didn't get the necessary majority. Amendment number five of the same representative, the Honorable Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47407	Article 65 shall not be adopted for reasons of operationality, the acceleration of the adoption procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47408	I'd like an honorary applicant for the Mladen Novak amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47409	There's no point in explaining it anymore, but I'm still asking for a vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47410	Thank you very much. I would like to make a statement on Amendment number five of the respected representative Mladen Novak, whom the government does not accept. Who's in? Thank you very much. I'm saying he didn't get the necessary majority. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 78 votes in favour, 28 votes against and 2 abstentions have been passed by the Law on Railways in the text, as proposed by the Proposer along with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47411	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. It is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 432. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure, and you received reports at the session. I ask if the proposaler's representative would like to further explain the proposal. Yeah. Dear Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Zdenko Antesic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47412	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. The Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport contains provisions on mandatory air traffic relations arising from the Treaty on the carriage of passengers and luggage, on the transport of a matter, on the pursuit of other commercial activities, on the lease of aircraft in the event of damage to persons and things on board, on insurance and resecuritisation. In addition, provisions on real-legal relations with respect to aircraft, i.e. ownership and the rights of aircraft, as well as provisions on the procedure of enforcement and insurance on aircraft and cargo to aircraft, as well as the jurisdiction of the courts for enforcement and insurance. In the process of bringing the Republic of Croatia closer to the EU, it was necessary to bring the legislation of the Republic of Croatia into line with the acquis, and relevant provisions have been implemented in the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport. However, by way of full EU membership for the Republic of Croatia, the regulations will be fully binding and directly applicable. The objective of amending and supplementing this law is to delete the contents of EU regulations already implemented in the accession process, which will apply, i.e. from 1.7 this year and delete the following contents of the Regulations. This is a Council Regulation 2007/97 of 9 October 1997 on the liability of air carriers in the event of an accident which has been amended by Regulation No 889/2002 of the European Parliament and of the Council. Secondly, Regulation No 261/2004 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 11 February 2004 laying down common rights in relation to compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of the denial of boarding and cancellation or other delays in flights. Third, Regulation No 1107/2006 on the rights of persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility. The proposed amendments to the law of the infringement shall give rise to their legal basis in three cited regulations which have been deleted from the law, but shall apply directly from 1 July of this year. The Croatian Civil Aviation Agency shall become responsible for the supervision and inspection, calming and undertaking of other activities related to the protection of the rights of passengers, persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility. So one sentence could say that we in fact move from our legislation to provisions that have already been implemented in our law in the process of Croatia's accession to the EU and which are directly applicable under the Council of Europe regulations. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47413	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club, a respected colleague, Branko Bačić, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47414	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Dear Sir Deputy, as you yourself have said, amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport with the Final Proposal of the Law means the completion of the harmonisation of our legislation with the acquis of the EU in such a way that the standards implemented in Croatian legislation are already established so far, that these laws are now practically exempt, a single legal norm is created which is now directly applicable in the field of Croatian legislation in the section relating to the Law on Mandatory and Real Legal Relations in Air Transport. At the same time, the Croatian Civil Aviation Agency shall become responsible for the supervision, inspection, calming and undertaking of other activities in relation to the protection of the rights of passengers of persons with disabilities and persons with reduced mobility and the passenger who has submitted the advertisation to the carrier in the event that the latter is not satisfied with the requirement of advertising shall now have the right to address that agency. Under the applicable law, this is the Ministry of Civil Aviation Affairs. So, from that point of view, we keep this technical change and it's completely acceptable, clearly that we were and as a state obliged to do it. However, since we are talking about these mandatory and real air relations, the issue of other contractual obligations that you, as Government and as Resort Ministry, have somehow been clearly imposed by the Treaty on the Construction and Management of Zagreb Airport. Well, perhaps here I would take the opportunity for you, sir, to point out to us a few questions that are particularly clear these days and in part of all the participants in air traffic to the Croatian public, and they refer to respecting the concession agreement for the construction and management of Zagreb Airport between the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Infrastructure and the concessionaire's concession for the construction and management of Zagreb Airport. Namely, here is the past year and three, i.e. 15 months, that Mr. Antesic has just signed the contract and according to this contract, the concessionaires' obligation was that within 6 months he must make a plan to take over the airport, take over workers, create a business plan, plan for the future organisational scheme, for all of this to get the consent of the concession provider and solve, which is very important, the financial structure for the construction of the Zagreb Airport. This was the 180-day deadline, or 6 months which expired on 11 October last year, but there is, you know very well, in that same contract, the possibility to extend that deadline for another 6 months if it failed to close the financial structure, so it did not happen and the government extended it according to the contract for another 6 months, i.e. exactly 360 days. With a summer, superficial view of the calendar, we will determine that the deadline expired on 11 April 2013. And according to the current contract, circumstances arise over the process of decomposition of the contract, but we heard from the public that the government doesn't know on what grounds, you may know better, Mr. Deputy, that contract extended until July 1st of this year, and that deadline here has expired even though I don't know what this contract is based on. But if the government did it in a bona fides in good faith, I accept it, but I don't know what kind of arguments it came from and such an additional extension of the contract. The public and we also ask ourselves if this contract is really in effect now, is there a new deadline that the Croatian public does not know, is there any new date to which the concessionaire, which is ZAIC must access the realisation of the contract itself? At the same time, it's public these days, and I think Mr. Minister was talking about it, and we find out that the concessionist is looking for a concession right from the government of the Republic of Croatia. It is paradoxical for me that the concessionaire is seeking a concession to invest in the airport from the concessionors in this case of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, but I am not surprised that ZAIC as a concessionist cannot get a concession because it is registered in London as a company worth 10 pounds, and then in a certain way we are concerned about how and how such a guarantee will come from the Croatian government because it wonders that the founders, which are strong companies BUI and... are not behind their own companies and that they do not give concession but are looking for a concession from the Croatian government. Meanwhile, we also learned that ZAIC founded another company in the international airport of Zagreb and now to ask for a concession received by ZAIC to be transferred to it. So, very, very, very many questions have been raised about this contract and the airport trade unions and the Croatian public, and we must also be representatives of the real concern that an important strategic investment in air traffic in the Republic of Croatia stands, that it does not act on the contract signed. And I think that's really causing a lot of questions. Because at the end of the whole story then it can be concluded that the state-owned company Zagreb Airport is finally here after 15 months since we signed that contract that it could very easily have obtained a concession to build an airport. In fact, this company is operating positively, and if the Government already intends to give concession to a concessionary who, by the way, is registered in London for 10 pounds, then it was more opportunistic that this concession agreement for the construction of an airport... to its Airport Zagreb and thus would be resolved by a very, very large number of dubiosiss, dilemmas, inaccuracies, injustices, illegalities that go through this process. So it would be good if here in this context when we talk about mandatory and real air relations, let's also remember this contract which, in a similar way, in one other segment, solves relations between the Republic of Croatia and the concessionaires who have so far failed to fulfil any obligations under their contract. So, alone and the basic law that Mr. Deputy Minister has laid down, we will accept and support at the HDZ Club. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47415	Thank you. We have one replica of our colleague Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47416	Dear Mr. Bacic, it is quite incomprehensible that Croatia does not even adhere to those laws signed by the law itself, which are clear. If you have said that a concession on the management of Zagreb Airport was signed, the possibility of an extension of another 6 months, 6 months, after 6 months that the other 6 months had expired on 11.4.2013 and was extended to 1.7. It is quite certain that the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be interested in what is happening with this contract, which will make it appear that the Government of the Republic of Croatia will provide a guarantee for some of the loans that some foreign concessionaries will invest more effectively and do well in the Republic of Croatia. I mean, I'm pretty sure it's not clear to me that maybe it's not just clear to me, but I don't know if you know any more details you can explain, and the Deputy Minister will probably explain what it's about. It seems that from the construction and investment of foreign money in Zagreb Airport, there will be nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47417	The replica matches the respected Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47418	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. So, I would say to my colleague Vuksic that this project, which was well imagined, was supposed to represent a major investment in Croatian air traffic somewhere around 250m euros that this way, as it was led by the Croatian government, had experienced a complete fiasco or debacle. In fact, 15 months have passed no legal step that should have been taken has been taken. I don't know if we're at the beginning, but we don't know who the concession is now transferred to, whether it's still ZAIC or some of her daughter's companies, whether it's being transferred to a concession, even though it's incomprehensible that the concession can be transferred before it's consummated entirely. We don't know who's going to guarantee the concessionaire, so either it's ZAIC or it's the Zagreb International Airport I don't know who 3rd, 5th is not clear there. Who's going to give a guarantee? When will the realization begin? And worst of all, according to some findings, the concessionaire is said to quietly change the conditions of the competition in a way that changes the project based on the tender and that he has put his offer into question by other concessionaries who have reported that they may have known something that might have happened, perhaps they would have made a more favourable offer. Therefore, there are a very, very large number of questions, and I think it would be good for Mr. Deputy Minister to get to know us and the Croatian public about these circumstances because it is already speculating with a number of misinformation or semi-information and it is certainly not good for this project.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47419	Thank you. The closing word of Deputy Minister of Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure, respected Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47420	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I thank you first of all for supporting this law that we were talking about today. About Mr Bačić's inquiry, which refers to the concessioning of the Zagreb Airport. From this point on, I can say only the following, that out of about a hundred issues that were opened at the beginning of the contract, almost 98 were resolved during the signing of the contract, or during that period. There are still a few questions left that will be resolved in a very soon time. And if you, of course, are interested in the details of the council, I would ask you to make an inquiry and you will receive a comprehensive answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47421	Replica, the esteemed Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47422	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, I believe it was a dubiosis because it's a really huge project, but the dubiosis can't be on two important issues that we've asked you. The first question is whether as a concessionaire of the Airport, ZAIC had expired the deadline within which you or the Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Transport and Liaison needed to contribute all possible documentation of the plans and programmes and the resolved financial structure, that is one thing. And the other thing is that I ask you exactly is whether it is still this ZAIC concessionist or whether the government has agreed to transfer the concession to another company daughter of the International Airport of Zagreb, which is being dragged through the media. So only these two questions therefore do not require too much preparation, you could simply tell us here whether a concession has expired or not if it is not in whose concession it is and whether the government will give concession to its concessionaire and not because it has been better placed from the position of preservation of state interests if it is already engaged in a concession guarantee project then the only company that has earned it is the current company Zagreb Airport in 100% owned by Croatia and the city of Zagreb, Velika Gorica and Zagreb County. Everything else, I think we needed someone out of our sleeves to point out that information because they are so important that you certainly know that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47423	The debate on the text of the law is over. We'll vote Monday.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47424	Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mandatory Real Legal Relations in Air Transport, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 432. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Minister Sinisha Hajdash-Doncic to manifest himself.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47425	We do not accept the amendment of the Legislative Committee because we do not believe that there is a significant nomotechnical statement. So it doesn't matter.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47426	Thank you very much. The amendment has been withdrawn. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please plead. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 26 abstentions have been passed by the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Mandatory and Real Rights in Air Transport in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47427	We're moving on to the next item of the agenda. - Proposal for a life severance bill, first reading, P.Z. No. 266 Proposer of the Law is the Club of Representatives of HSU. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. in the case of the adoption of this law, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership and the Committee on Finance. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Honorable representative of Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47428	Dear Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, honored ladies and gentlemen representatives, colleagues and colleagues. In front of you is the Proposal for a Life Retribution Act, that is, the purchase of a pension proposed by the Croatian Party of Retired Persons. The proposal of this and such a law is in this party's programme whose primary task concerns the material and social security of the current and future beneficiaries of pensions. This Proposal for a Law is not an amendment or an addition to an existing Peace Act, because it does not regulate the area of pensions but rather the area of dispatch as an institution of the labour market. This proposal does not allow or encourage a greater number of retired people, i.e. pensioners, because it is not about the former acquisition of internships but about improving the future status of employees who already have conditions for retirement. Proposal for a Retirement Act, which is before you, is originally a Croatian product fully in line with the European Social Model Directives and the acquis of the European Union. Its purpose is to increase the scope and level of rights, material rights, those members of the working population who are forced to leave the labour market early and to accept early retirement due to the restructuring of business entities in which they work. It is good that it has been so long since this Law was sent to the parliamentary procedure because our public is sensitive to every news from the Croatian Pension System about some embezzlement and purchase of disabled pensions and you are aware of it. So it's kind of a good time-out so we can talk in peace about this institution that's confusing. I admit it's confusing, it's a lifetime severance payment called a retirement. But that's because it has a certain past and it's been in use for 20 years but it's important that we now in peace without let's say some tensions and in public we discuss it. This is about an extremely correct institute which, as I say in the opening and said, does not collect anything from the employer. It allows the worker to think in the long term and have a higher level of income. In return, he doesn't get that one-time severance. And the state pays for it because then the early retirement worker has an alternative that he does not have to suffer a penalization so damage from a pension that reduces his pension. You know that pensions are shrinking by 5 years less internships are down 20.4% but you're actually almost 1/3 of pensions because you're always missing those 5 years. So you have the damage of those missed five years. So, with this institute, that part can be compensated. The basic reason why this Law is proposed is the need for the purchase of a pension or a life-long allowance that is constantly being made in Croatia, which has been continuously implemented in Croatia for over 20 years, to finally get its legal framework because this labour law institute is still legally recognised only through the Income Tax Act. Therefore, the Institute is not outside the system but is recognised only in the Income Tax Act, i.e. in collective, collective agreements. Therefore, under Directive 98/59/EC of 20 July 1998 in the harmonisation of Member States' legislation on collective lay-offs, the excess worker is obliged to provide workers with more protection in the event of collective lay-offs, extra workers and to mitigate these consequences of cancellation. That is exactly the product to which Directive 98/59 indicates. So once again, the addition of the pension is just one of these employer accompanying measures as an original Croatian contribution to the European social model in the care of excess workers. In addition, the employer makes up for the financial loss of employees who will receive a reduced pension for life because of their pension. In particular, we stress that the purpose of the purchase is not to encourage an increase in the number of pensioners. The collection of pensions is, therefore, recognized several times in our documents in the history of the Croatian state. It is recognised by the Income Tax Regulation in 2000, which was recognised afterwards by the Income Tax Act in 2002. With the conclusion of the Economic Social Council of 5 June 2000, which was supported by the Council in this mode of addressing the social problems of workers prior to pensioning the opinion of the Ministry of Labour and Entrepreneurship 2010 of 10 December 2010. Then we also have an opinion from 2002 from the Minister of Administration and Justice. Therefore, this institute is implemented under the Law on Commercial Companies with, therefore, subject to audits and recognition, by collective agreements and recognised in the Income Tax Act. He has been living for 22 years, used by about 4,000 pensioners in Croatia. And I think there is a lot of chance that it will become an export product if we give it a legal framework because we have the same pension system in the neighbourhood from Slovenia to Macedonia, very little modified compared to Croatia, except that we had reform and we have three pillars that remain or have two or are not yet at that stage. This proposed law would regulate the following. A pension would be arranged as a life-long payment of severance payments to workers on the occasion of retirement. Companies would be arranged to pay their pensions, the beneficiaries would be defined by the purchase of pensions, its implementation and the payment of pensions, the financing and the business of the assets for the purchase of pensions and supervision and the rest of the importance of the purchase of pensions, all in one place. So I'm not going to go into all the details, I'm going to cut it short, and I could write down each of the parts of this content of the law, but I'm going to, eventually, give clarifications in the debate, but it's also important to say that when we were preparing this law, we went to prepare this law in a way that we made a proposal and sent it to the public interested to give us a preliminary opinion. The Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and the social partners, that is, all the union centres, and that is, in addition to this law, you have opinions in favour of this law. The government's opinion is not so supportive, but it's not bad. The government's opinion points to caution and, in some ways, obliges us to pay particular attention to certain details relating to the risk of money operations. Namely, here it is not done as in the third voluntary pillar, a voluntary pension fund, in my individual account there is money, when the savings period is over he transfers that money to a pension insurance company. That pension insurance company has, of course, a foreign exchange clause, but it takes 10% and pays me on a certain deadline or life-long pension from a voluntary third pillar. It's not like that here. In addition to the pension, i.e. a lifetime allowance with the money paid by the employer to his employee, and on the basis of a collective contract and agreement with his worker, he must, here, the money must be increased. Why? Because it is not only a defined contribution here but it is also defined giving, which means there is both a weight and on that paying side because the Institute of Pensions must monitor the indexation, so it follows what it is, it practically has everything to do with the first pension column that pays off its pension in cogeneration solidarity, so it has indexation and has a family pension. So if we were to say in some popular dictionary, this is a hybrid that connects the first pillar of generation solidarity based on reciprocity, solidarity and transfer of funds from current work into the pension system, so workers pay off pensions and ways of creating new capital and saving capital for payments that are characteristic of the second and third pension pillars. So, the Government's opinion obliges us to propose for a second reading maximum protection for users, to make business more transparent and we have left here in the bill one dilemma whether supervision will be given to the Ministry of Finance or the HANFA we have already created, so we have created a picture and I think that the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency will be responsible for controlling capital, the turnover of capital and the business of a company that will pay for the purchase of pension. Nor is this law done because of the existing company that does so, but that other companies can be established and can either sell or deal with such an institute on the same basis. Of course, competition is desirable because then surely you have different offers in the competition that can pay for more or less a certain level of life severance with a mandatory equal amount of security. In a later address or closing statement, I will refer to the government's opinion, not to wait for the debate to begin, so it's important for me to say it at the pay phone and enter the phonogram to say exactly what we can, which is very good in the government's opinion, and let's say it's possible to discuss it. Dear colleagues and colleagues, MPs and gentlemen, I believe that you have read this Proposed Life Retirement Act, i.e. the purchase of a pension and for the sake of this brief presentation, have gained firm conviction of the necessity, i.e. the usefulness of the adoption of the proposed law, i.e. the need to establish a legal framework for the collection of pensions. We are bound not only by good practice from the previous 20 years of life and the implementation of this Institute of Labour Rights but also by the continuing obligation to build on the legal property of the European Union, but also by the original home experiences, originally domestically developed institutes in the Croatian social and legal system. As a contribution, this can be a real contribution from the youngest member of the Union to the European social model. Starting from this I urge you to consider the proposed law and to make your contribution to the debate by supporting, but also constructive criticism, in any case we are open to hearing your every proposal, but with one goal, to do something good and quality. Here's a 16-minute opening, I think he's fine, cut it short enough. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47429	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP club, the respected representative of Gordana Sobol will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47430	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Well, here's the thing, actually, is that we have a proposal for a lifetime severance bill, or a retirement bill. The law we're discussing in a regular procedure, so two readings. This is the first reading. Well, here I am on behalf of the SDP club and a few general notes about the pension itself. In fact, the promoter pointed out this in the opening statement that the collection of pensions by the Institute is in a way that has existed in Croatia for more than two decades. The Labour Act used to provide for the Institute of Retirement. Somehow it seems to me that some of these two institutes may be chasing each other today. However, these are two completely different institutes because the collection of pensions applies exclusively to those users who have failed to achieve it, i.e. by law, all the conditions for full retirement in terms of early retirement or old age, which essentially buys them the amount in part, so their pensions and thus enables them to actually get on their pension, on what they receive every month so as to say they do not feel this kind of deficit, so I put it under quotes. So, the pensioner after that institute receives for the rest of his life and the part until he's retired that he's completed a certain age or a certain retirement period, so that he ultimately avoids that retirement in fact because of his early retirement. The Institute of Pensions, the collection of pensions was accepted in Croatia in the last, so more than two decades in fact by social partners and it is actually in Croatia practice. It is arranged, this retirement is arranged through collective agreements, including one part through the Income Tax Act. However, what has been missing all these years is the normative arrangement of this institute. And it turns out that the need exists, that it is not from yesterday or today because, in fact, we remind that in mid-2000, the GSV gave support to the then Economic Social Council, which gave support to this way of solving part of social problems, and then it was actually called a sort of severance. So, that pension supplement itself. Therefore, in the sense that it is not paid once a month for the amount for which the user is damaged due to an earlier retirement which has not been caused by his guilt and is different from the classical severance payment by the fact that he is untaxable. When the pension system was reformed in 2000 and three pillars have been set up today, so many years ago, there was the possibility of a pension. However, the reforms that followed did not particularly regulate the area. That is why it should be said that, even though it has been over all these years, there have recently been some recommendations to say so in relation to HANFA on the one hand and on the other, the only society that is engaged in Croatia today, so these jobs. So here's HanFA and warns and warns clients that the purchase of pensions still work really at their own risk. However, it should be said that, despite everything today, there are about 4 and a half thousand people who receive that pension supplement in Croatia. And it has been calculated somewhere and counted that more than 250 companies have applied this pension system all these years, and since 2004, the retirement instrument has been incorporated into the collective contract for civil servants and tenants. Retirement is actually something that is certified in fact as the original Croatian product. I think it's somewhere else in 2002 if I'm not mistaken for the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, so I think it says in this memo they gave. So it's a model, a kind of severance for workers who, in agreement with the employer, leave the world of work early. Such a care model is carried out most often when rationalising the number of employees in the restructuring processes when the care usually begins in a way with those workers who are ahead of retirement, or when it comes to the contractual suspension of the employment relationship with the purchase of pensions. When we talk about Croatia and the data related to the level of pension then, after one study by the Economic Institute a few years ago, I think it was about today, so in Croatia, on average, the first pension is about 40% lower than the last salary received by the pensioner. However, there is one more thing to say, which is that in Croatia there is too little of those who retire to meeting those conditions in terms of full-time employment, or years of age. Because when such people are in Croatia, so here is the figure of a million 219 thousand 964 pensioners, and only 151270 go according to these conditions where they have satisfied the working internship, the height of the employment period or the year of age. And it should be said that their average pension is 73% compared to the average salary in Croatia. That's the problem. So, for us in Croatia, it must be in the interest, there is too little of those who have an average on average compared to the average salary of pensioners who therefore have something to meet their monthly needs. And there's actually I'd say that regardless of what tomorrow's Institute of Pensions is going to get in one way or another, so through this law or through something else we're going to see when this law comes into another reading, etc., but in the future, we have to go to our own, so that citizens go to full pensions. And to ultimately be much smaller ones who will have to use these kind of models that fall essentially into the social sphere. The law which HSU referred to in the procedure as a SDP club is considered to be something that is good and it is good to move and to discuss it. Perhaps it has been a very long time since we have this institute and the pity that it has not been resolved before, but we are asking and warning as a SDP club that those who speak with caution about it and who warn about possible ambiguities that might arise from this bill. But also the proposer himself in the opening part, I think that already fellow Hrelja has pointed out that in one part it will certainly be about improvements, because we share the government's opinion that the beneficiaries of the pension, we consider it crucial, must have the same position as the users of the pension insurance companies or life insurance for the security of the payment of pensions, and so that is something that we all need, and certainly it is in the first place and of the greatest interest. The other remarks made by the Government are also related to the underlying capital that such societies would have, today we have one, tomorrow we may have more, which must be brought in line with what the EU requires because we are from the 1,07th EU member and in that part here we expect the legislator to respect the remarks. Basically, therefore, as a club of Social Democrats, of course we support this institute, but we expect that by the second reading, the Proposer will look at all the remarks that have been made and that in the second reading we have an improved bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47431	Thank you. On behalf of the HSU Club, a respected representative, Željko Shemper, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47432	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Until '95. the year under the Labour Relations Act as a labour law institute has been applied to the addition of a pension internship. At that time, my schoolmates, in addition to the employer’s training, were leaving early retirement at 50 years of age. Since 1995, when the Labour Act was adopted, so-called the purchase of a pension or a lifetime of severance when an employment relationship stopped for organisational or technological reasons. Today, the reason for leaving and losing a job is a modern-popular one called restructuring. Those who have little luck in that accident of losing their jobs go along with the so-called. "stimulative severance" and the others with nothing. The acquisition of internships earned the right to retire before the conditions laid down by law, thus creating additional long-term obligations in the pension system, and the institute of labour law was abandoned. As a better practice, he continued to carry out pension purchases, which was the same obligation for the employer, the users of the higher income pension, and no obligations were made to the pension system. It is important to stress that the addition of pensions can be carried out in accordance with the conditions and the right to retire from the 1st pillar on the basis of generation solidarity. Instead of the one-time paid stimulative severance payment through the purchase of pensions to the user, this giving is paid in monthly meals for life. The amount of giving shall be calculated as the difference between early retirement and retirement that an employee would have achieved if he had remained at work until his 65th and the conditions for retirement. After the death of the beneficiary of such a pension, family pension may also be made. The amount of life-time severance shall be financed by the employer by a payment to the company which pays the user’s pension. Life-time severance shall be aligned with an identical pension under the Pension Insurance Act, twice a year. For the realisation of the Institute of Pensions, the legal basis is the contract between the employer and the company, of course, with prior agreement between the workers and the employer. As this area of action functioned under the Law on Commercial Society, the need for Croatian legislation to be complemented by a proper regulation, which is this law. This institution has been in place for 20 years and this law establishes a framework for the security of funding for the purchase of pensions, regulates supervision and opens up the possibility of a larger number of companies in this activity. Any delay in the adoption of this law as a consequence has more expensive and harmful solutions for workers, employers and the state, and because of the different procedures such as termination, leaving the workplace, unnecessary social conflicts and often labour and judicial disputes are possible. There is a significant and significant difference between the purchase of pensions as a lifelong severance and voluntary pension insurance so-called. Three pillars. The pension and insurance companies law and the payment of pensions on the basis of individual capitalised savings bear that name because it regulates the area of pensions. It can be acquired by 50 years of life, calculated as a pension system rent, and can be paid up to 30% of the funds from personal accounts once. On the other hand, the Life Retribution Act, or the Retirement Act, bears that name because it regulates the area of severance as a labour market institute. The purchase of pensions should be regarded as a complete system of payment and payment through a company while the second and third pillars differ essentially because they function separately. Payments go to pension funds, and payments come from pension insurance companies. They also differ by the fact that the purchase of a pension is related to wages, pensions and generation solidarity, and it is about employers' financial resources while pensions are financed solely by the means of their users on the basis of individual capitalised savings. The question of the cost of the Institute of Pensions is raised, and for whom is it more favourable? Small analysis shows everyone's going well. The employer financing this model is aware that any reduction in the number of employees has all the price. He knows that a job in the next five years would cost him a lot more. For the pensioner, the question arises which is more favourable to him. He knows that by going to early retirement five years earlier, pensioning him is a fifth of his pension. Once-paid severance in practice has shown that it is easily and very quickly dissolved in uncontrolled consumption and remains a permanent deficit in total income. The addition of pensions is shown to be a good measure of social care for workers who have agreed to terminate their working relationship because it makes up for the difference between retirement and retirement. The Institute of Pensions is based on European directives and acquis, and due to the principle of solidarity and social partnership, it is close to the European social model. The EU Directive 98/59 EC also points to the importance of providing greater protection in cases of collective surplus workers and the mitigation of the consequences of these cancellations. The proposal for a life-long severance law was supported by the union of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Pension Associations and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce, which was originally declared a Croatian product by the Institute ten years ago. And the Government of the Republic of Croatia supports the proposal for a legal arrangement for the payment of a lifetime allowance and proposes a regular legislative procedure with the normative solutions contained in the draft law in question, while accepting those remarks until the second reading in the Croatian Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47433	Thank you. I would also like to invite my Đura Popiča, a respected colleague to take his word for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47434	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So before us is an initiative a legal proposal that comes from a coalition partner. Regardless of the procedure, we have heard that many ministries have supported this proposal and the government has in its opinion indicated that here we should go to another reading, but here we know nothing about what the Ministry of Labour means, therefore, the Ministry of origin, but obviously it will also hone its views and opinions after this debate and during the second reading. This is one of the few situations in life where practice seems better than regulation. So they've all looked back on the fact that this institute has been around for many years. I personally have this experience not that I'm in the retirement system but I was one of perhaps the first directors to sign for a larger number of people to take care of workers. It was a big risk back then. But here, after a time-out, I can also conclude here that all those who have entered that system receive the compensation neatly from the still existing and only company that deals with this business. So I don't think it's a good thing that when we go into regulation on the normisation of this job, I don't think there's a lot of difference with the pension system because it's essentially nothing to do with the pension system, and there's no obligation on these benefits, so there's no pension system, no one else's severance, that's instead of a one-time severance which usually ends in very fast consumption, and then there's a lot of problems for those who have been taking such huge severance and so many people have decided on just one kind of gradual or monthly rent, or that amount that should be calculated, and that is usually calculated to make up the difference to full pension. So the practice, the long-term practice of consumption of this project at the end of the entrepreneurial venture, showed that it was him and most of you also found that he was accepted by both the users and the social partners and entrepreneurs who ultimately bear the cost either by a single payment or by the same monthly annuities throughout the years of consumption of this type of severance. Is that supposed to be called a peace offering, I don't know, here's some lawyers and those who are professional in it even during this time until the second reading determine it. I think the time has come, of course, to finally put the entire institute into legal regulation, into a legal framework. So this isn't the first time this initiative has come today, there have been multiple attempts so far. But it's okay, finally let that initiative come. And let all that is written in certain provisions of this article now be put into public debate. Let's put it on the table to all the experts and get it done the way they think it's best. You don't really have to mix that with the funds. These are not pension funds and should not be put under the same criteria as pension funds do. And here we appeal to the government itself to recognize that significant difference. That maybe he's prevailing and some... Maybe some ministers that they're not initiators of it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And that really in their procedures at the end that must be and finally install those changes or those things inside that the whole system is being implemented. Because if so many restrictions and so many conditions are made by law and so many fences can happen that the existing society simply does not comply with this Law. So instead of improving the system, we can destroy what exists. Which, in the end, often happens to us. So that ultimately from this good practice that occurred from this good product which received both the certificate and the original name of Croatia, the people who built it, the users who are still satisfied with this service, this service and this product. And entrepreneurs who have taken care of their workers in a more quality way in this project, who wanted to leave early in retirement, should be put in a sustainable, regulated framework and thus also give, possibly, other entrepreneurial projects to enter this system, to open up business opportunities and opportunities for people to consume such a social product. And if it's all necessary, to put all social initiatives into legal regulations, that's good for all of us to evaluate. But also regulations and practices in the European Union allow certain contributions within the world of work that complement the social security of workers not to be established by law at all, if they are of a optional nature but rather by the decision of employers, trade unions, contract or collective agreement and social innovation leave entrepreneurship free. However, given what this project has been experiencing over the years by regulators, it should be made quite plain to say where often times and doubted whether it is legal for this institute and this project to exist, this way of severance. It is good to regulate this, that all those who today are engaged and want to do this job and the project are in the same legal game under the same rules and framework of formation, supervision, mechanisms and ways of investing and processing these funds that are in that fund. And probably even more intensely in the coming time this institute will then be used by both entrepreneurs and workers who want to retire early. Of course, the team does not address the labour market issue in terms of early people's retirement, nor does the problems of all who today's pension system, of course, are solved. It's not I., it's not III. The column will not experience any serious or improvement or disturbances due to this. In essence, this should not be put into the context of the pension system but simply as one of the possible legitimate and regulated activities for additional possibilities of providing people and some long-term or life-long benefits that such users would also receive. We support this initiative and let time to second reading and second reading do everything that needs to be done and let this whole project and this initiative and this practice end up being regulated and placed on the market for many years to consume it in the way they think it is best. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47435	We will now finally be approached by a representative of the promoters, the respected Silvano Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47436	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. Some questions came out of the debate, so I'd like to try to answer them. So it's right here that it's defined what used to be a retirement internship and why he was wrong. It was abolished in 1995 because then the pensioners gained the right to retire without having had a criterion of years, so before they came to order. Although you know I'm not exactly 100% the critic of that institute and you know why? Because we have a citizen of the Republic of Croatia who talks to us who are 14 years old and 6 months old and who can't accept any kuna pensions and are 65 years old. So, he's not a bad institute, but when we put him in some context of certain social groups of our citizens where it would be better than if we had him on the social side because we have 14 and a half years of internship here so that eventually this purchase of an internship half a year could have someone achieve 800 kuna pensions, it's more deserved than if we had him on the other side, so on the social side. Therefore, this is to be discussed, but I agree with all of you who have said that it was a period of exercise of rights more and before the pensioner was supposed to exercise his rights and as such it was abandoned in 1995. What is worth still pointing out here, that this severance does not affect other types of severance. It doesn't rule each other out. The one who needs to be determined for life's severance is a matter of his choice, he can always ignore it and say I want a stimulating severance payment because it's 30% higher. Yeah, but when you spend it, it's gone. Look, we've run a little analysis of the cost of restructuring HEP where 1,500 people went to the top early retirement and where 400 million kunas were spent for it. If this institute were to be applied, 150 million kunas would be spent somewhere. It is for a half-year indexation, beware it is not the money someone received on the gift, it is the money paid by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia through the price of electricity. Because, you know, it's no matter what you give a 300,000 kuna stimulant severance to someone who's missing five years of full retirement and who's missing six months. And there was one who was closer, more warmed up. So I think we have room for this institute to apply. Why didn't it work out before, let's be honest and let's say. We had a late secretary of state at the Ministry who never accepted this concept, she was at the concept of the World Bank and dismembered on the first, second and third pillars. Why didn't we do it seven years ago, because seven years ago, the HANFA happened the first time, it didn't exist until then, and this all existed. And the HANFA, not knowing this institute, has made a repulsive move towards the institute because HANFA with the first pillar of generational solidarity has nothing to do with it. So he accurately figured out and dismembered Mr. Djuro Drinker's colleague, that it had nothing to do with his pension. If I were to paint myself and to tell people how this institute works for life and pension system, then I would say okay, your country is a pension system with all three pillars, and this month is your retirement. So they're just being followed, so there are certain rules that bind them but they're two special bodies. Whether to change the name, whether to change the name that is in collective agreements that have been introduced long before in the Income Tax Act and is called the Retribution of Pensions. I think it's going to be good enough to realize that it's about a lifetime of severance pay and a mere payoff and that if we all understand that there's not going to be too much provocation. I think it would be difficult to change all the normative acts surrounding this institute. At the end, or at the end, before I thank you for your cooperation and support, I would like to give very briefly not in detail, because we will write the details for the second reading, with which we agree from the Government's opinion, or what is possible to apply, which is not. I must say that one part stands very critical in the government's opinion, and that part is already in law. Maybe not enough, but certainly not enough rigorous, but it's already in content. For example. Article 18 provides for the calculation of the obligations to pay and cover purchased pensions, the 19-year obligation to calculate the obligation to pay the pensions collected, 21 accounting in accordance with international standards, in Article 22 of the investment principle, the reserve for the payment of the pensions collected, in Article 23 of the obligation to make a written statement, in Article 24, 25 of the assets in which a restriction can be invested in this respect. So the law says a lot more than it could conclude from the government's opinion, but I'm still open if it thinks that an item should be strengthened, we're as promoters open to it, and otherwise we're going to offer them what we think about it. Of course, it says that there should be clearly defined mechanisms of protection and supervision of the rights of users, conductive supervision and ensuring long-term and short-term social security of users. Here we are proposing, predicting supervision of the implementation of the proposed law by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency on the principle that they control capital in pension funds, i.e. capital revolutions and the rules applicable to them. The investment of assets on the principles of conservation and security is also governed by Articles 18 to 30 of this proposal of the law and this Article 18 of the calculation of the obligations for the payment of the pensions acquired and their coverage and the annual obligation to calculate. So not to count now, I say you'll get it again in the second reading written. You will see exactly what article that is detailed as let us give an answer to the government’s opinion, which is required to contribute to the draft law in the second reading. He says it's unacceptable that the property can be lower than that of a 3-year-old. The collection of pensions is funded and implemented on a combination of a system of certain contributions and certain contributions, which is a very common case in EU Member States with professional or additional pension insurance. That is why there are no specific rules in the Croatian legislation yet, nor has the HANFA been in control of funding through a combination of defined contributions and defined donations systems. The closest funding of pension funds with defined contributions under the Croatian Law on Mandatory and Voluntary Pension Funds, which is in line with EU Directive 2003/41 EC. It is therefore proposed to establish, in accordance with the above-mentioned domestic regulation and EU regulation, obligations for the payment of purchased pensions once a year, and given their long-term viability, the possibility would allow these obligations to be greater than the available funds of the reserve, and for up to three consecutive years after which it is mandatory for the company to recapitalise the technical reserves. It's the same thing here as a commitment, as a future obligation. This is the rule by which the mode works. This rule is identical to that provided for by the Pension Insurance Company Act, as well as the only one that works in Croatia. Of course, the provisions on premiums and payment obligations must have sufficient protection related to the risk of experiencing and interest rates. Of course we can agree on what actuarial tables will be used here. For the time being, we are using the actuarial tables from the first, i.e. they are used from the first pension column, i.e. the actuarial tables on the experience used by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office. Therefore, no import tables such as those in the case of pension insurance companies paying out of the second and third pillars because they are used with the actuarial tables of their parent bank, which means their country of origin. This is about our actuarial charts. Modification deadlines, okay. We agree that it can't be seven years as it says here, but it's hard to do that in a year. Therefore, some compromise must be in the middle. And I have to say that there is one big problem that the government has set up as a commitment where the core capital should be 3 and a half million euros. The current something that exists in Croatia and can be compared to the company for the payment of the acquired pension is a pension insurance company because the government compares it. Their core capital is 5 million kuna, and so it says in the bill. There is no standard in Europe that defines 3 and a half million euros as the underlying capital for this type of society and pension funds. It's a standard for insurance companies, for the insurance of people and property. And here's the standard passed on. We're going to say in the ministry that there's obviously been some confusion because it's too high a norm. I don't mind if we say that tomorrow in Croatia will be instead of five ten million kunas of core capital. We can agree on that, but we don't need to switch norms from another system here because that's when it becomes inaccessible. If an inaccessible base capital norm is set, then every possible competition is emerging, then perhaps this existing society will be able to find three and a half million euros of core capital, to settle it in two and a half years, but then you have eliminated any competition that could possibly start over. So it's about things that are very, very attached. And we only regret that one measure of the government's decision will in no way be respected, which is to refer this law to the regular procedure. This law is addressed to the regular procedure, and we have requested, even in some way not knowing that amendments and additions of the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament will take place in accordance with Article 174. The Rules of Procedure where we are obliged to carry out an appropriate preliminary discussion with interested entities, i.e. interested public. We've got a previous one here, okay. Okay. Well, mostly to be clear, but maybe I've turned something around, too. I'll allow that, too. At the end of the debate, I thank you all for supporting this institute, and I thank you for pointing out that you are very responsible for the potential risks, that we as proposings must very carefully and provide the norms, that is, prepare this law for a second reading, and all with the aim that the users of this institute have the most possible security. I thank you for your attention and for your good vibrations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47437	I thank you, too. That's what ended the debate on this agenda point. We're going to interrupt the session now. We will continue it on Monday with the Final Bill on Foundation "Croatian House - Croatian House, Second Reading, P.Z. No. 336 at 9 o'clock and 30 minutes. Have a nice weekend!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-07-12-0.u47438	We're going to the Proposed Life Retribution Act, first reading, P.Z.E. No. 266. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: "The Proposed Life Resumption Act, or the purchase of a pension proposed by the Club of Representatives of the HSU, Any objections, proposals and opinions, will be addressed to the Proposer in order to prepare the final draft of the law." Please make your point on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the conclusion was accepted unanimously by 106 votes in favour.
