ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38704	My colleagues and colleagues have a good day. We're moving on with the session. We will discuss: - Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, second reading, P.Z. No. 279 Proposer of Law Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. in the case of the adoption of laws, the provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply Articles 155 to 157. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. Introducing the law, the justice minister, Mr Orsat Milenic, will explain. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38705	Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. So there's a law before you on amendments and additions to the Penal Code. I won't be long. We've been through it. What is most important is that we leave the current way of parole means we move to a court that actually allows for appeal in this procedure. We feel that it is still a matter of changing one court ruling and that it is more appropriate for the court to do so than the Commission has so far. So the county court decides which is locally responsible for maintaining the sentence where the prison is located or the penitentiary. What's important is we raise the standard so it can't be parole after 1/3 anymore but after half the sentence. There's a whole series of other technical details that I made in my first reading, so here's all for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38706	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shantek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38707	Dear Madam Vice President, Honored Ministers, Honored colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club supported this proposal for two reasons in its first reading. First, because it is a matter of harmonising with the applicable Penal Code, and secondly, because it is considered a good principle that... a judicial verdict is decided by a court of law. And these are really two principles that can and must be acknowledged. However, in this final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prison Penalty Act in relation to the first reading, none such as the Minister himself said essential changes, but raised some questions that we certainly expect to answer. First and foremost, it is certainly an increase in the costs of the prison system that will result from the application of this law. Although the government stated in sending this final bill that no new cost would be incurred by the minister in the debate in the first reading, it would be, however, that it would not be big. ... Article 10 is prescribed for the hearing of prisoners at a meeting of the Judicial Council who will decide on his proposal for parole, which means that the transport of prisoners to the county court will have to be organised at all costs. Furthermore, this final draft of the law states that if a prisoner submits a written complaint to the judge... the Court of Justice will respond to the appeal by written means within 30 days of the date of receipt of the complaint, but also states in the law that the appeal against the decision of the Court of First Instance shall be brought to the court which has reached a decision within three days of the delivery of the solution and the decision of the Supreme Court. It shall not state within what time limit the senior court is obliged to decide on the appeal, as stated by the Court of First Instance within 30 days. There will be no equally burdened county courts related to the implementation of this law. For example. The Sisak County Court will have jurisdiction over the Glina Penitentiary with over 550 prisoners, the Lipovica Penitentiary, with more than 200 prisoners, a prison in Sisak with over 60 prisoners, and all of these are now only two judges of execution. All of what I have stated in any case will significantly increase the costs of the prison system that this law will have, and the additional funds are not secured in the state budget, are on the contrary reduced. We had here on the agenda of this assembly session a report on the work and state of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions for 2011 which the Government of the Republic of Croatia referred to in the 17 June 2012 parliamentary procedure, and then, without reason, pulled him out of the procedure this year. And that report lists a number of worrying data specifically related to the financial situation of the penitentiary and prison. The first and most important conclusion to be made, although it is listed at the end of the report, is that there is no money from the state budget for regular and uninterrupted prison proceedings for convicted persons. If we look at the structure of the total income of the penitentiary, prison and educational institutions, we see that the key funding from the state budget is almost 540 million kuna or 92.46%. Its own production contributes to 38.5 million kuna while other revenues are about 5.5 million or poor 0.94%. What really concerns is the lack of income and income for the coverage of around 45 million kuna and transferred from previous years to 2012. It is also evident that the outstanding, and the due commitments are increasing year by year, so in 2005, the debt amounted to 16 million kuna, and in 2011 as I have already said over 25 million kuna. The showing of the spending party shows that most refer to employee salaries, contributions to salaries, transportation fees and other charges for employees 74.34%, materials and raw materials about 7%, energy 5.3, health services 3,67 etc. Unfortunately, these figures that testify to the poor financial state of the prison's execution system have worsened this year. The rebalance of last year's budget meant for the execution of the prison sentence was reduced from a amount of 538 million 153 thousand 592 kuna to 469 million kuna. The 2013 budget adopted the amount of 543, with a further reduction for 2014 to only 439 million kuna, so some 100 million kunas were reduced compared to 2011. What I would like to warn here is that during the 2013 budget when we decided here in the Parliament, this article came out in the paper on the day of the budget and the title was "30 prisoners sued for sleeping in entrepreneurship". Here is the report that shows that 100 claims for compensation by prisoners were received during 2011. The most claims for damages apply to the conditions of accommodation. It was mostly in the Penitentiary of Lepoglava, then the prison of Zagreb, etc. Taking into account the claim for damages lodged in 2008 on 31 December 2011, 283 prisoners seek an amount of 86 million kuna. It is mainly about requests for peaceful solutions to the dispute filed by the inmate and the competent municipal state attorneys. That amount of 86, nearly 87 million kuna would be enough to build a new penitentiary or prison. The fact that there are no new accommodation facilities for persons deprived of freedom is even more concerned in the state budget for this year, but the construction of a new penitentiary in Sibenik is not planned until in the projection of the budget for 2014 amounting to 3 million kuna, and in 2015, worth 5 million kuna, although this Assembly approved a loan to the Republic of Croatia for construction of the Sibenik Penitentiary. The report also noted that 2335 jobs were systemised in penitentiary facilities, prisons and educational institutions on 31 December 2011, and 1597 officials were filled. The Croatian Parliament has changed the Penal Code, it is also in the parliamentary procedure at this session of the Parliament under 50 and some part of the agenda of the Law on Infringements against Public Order and Peace which has drastically applied sanctions. For example. For insulting police officers from 7 to 15 thousand kuna, for noise in a public place in an alcoholic state or under the apparent influence of drugs, punishment is 3 to 5 thousand kuna, fighting among young men 3 to 6 thousand kuna, wandering thousands to 2 thousand kuna. Drastic examples are prison sentences for an old woman who did not pay a communal fee or an older cyclist who did not turn on the lights on her bike. Personally, I believe that most offenders of this law, and not only of this law, will not be able to pay such drastic punishments, but they will decide to uphold the superlative sentence of prison. During 2011, 4060 prisoners were held in prisons, of which 3441 persons were sentenced to prison and 1025 of them in criminal proceedings. Dear Mr. Minister, from all this above, it is clear that the number of prisoners will continue to increase. However, if we put into the context of this fact, we need to come to some conclusions. Therefore, the separations from the state budget for the work of the prison system are reduced, the powers of the penitentiary and prisons are reduced, and the supervision of the powers of the Administration for the prison system is increased, the powers for conditional discharge are delegated to the courts. It remains a chronicly weak fill-up of prison officials' jobs. I have to ask at the end of this debate one simple question, is this the 12th or 15th order of adoption of amendments and the addition of the Penal Code actually the first step towards privatising the prison system. Will the prisoners be guarding our security company for a few years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38708	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38709	Thank you, Vice-President of the Parliament, distinguished ministers with associates, colleagues and fellow MPs. The final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code is true that this is already the 12th amendment of this law, but the fact is that in the meantime we have implemented many amendments and amendments to the law in the area of criminal law so that this is nothing strange, this is further harmonisation and improvement of our laws before and entering Croatia into the European Union, but also compliance with those legal regulations that we have adopted in the sense of compliance with the 2011 Penal Code. So this is a legal proposal which primarily aims to bring existing rules into line with new solutions, with how we have discussed the Penal Code, we have spoken to a modern European Penal Code, which will enter into its full full fullness in 2015 with all the amendments to the High Criminal Court. The HDSSB Club of course supports these amendments and additions to this law above all because in the first part it is in line with the new regulations concerning the establishment and the partiality of the body of the state administration, in particular the Law on the System of State Administration, the Law establishing and deliriousness of the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration and the Regulation on the principles for the internal establishment of the body of the state administration. What is particularly important here for the prominent, we see that, by reason of the law and by the articles of the law, that new regulations and new times in which we live, stressing what we have recently been repeating, and the fact that we will become a full member of the European Union, that both the supervisory authorities and the parties in the process of special knowledge and skills, in particular in terms of knowledge of international and national law, criminalism, criminalism, social work, the basis of medicine with special emphasis on the psychology of communication skills, foreign languages, knowledge of computer work and other characteristics which are characteristic and prison systems in the Member States of the European Union. What is important for this final text of the law, so first of all, concerns parole issues, different solutions to this bill than it was under the 1997 Penal Code. Also, those decisions and therefore judgments under the '97 Penal Code. and therefore parole issues will be dealt with in those cases that remain under that law during that time, according to the '97 law. The year is because the convicted party is subject to that law and those laws which were laid down at the time of the sentence, so those rules concerning the possibility of parole, which is completely different under the 2011 Penal Code and according to this proposal of the law. We believe in the HDSSB club that these are, therefore, good solutions, modern European solutions, that the penalty is therefore also conditional leave and supervision of parole is regulated differently than it has been so far. Therefore, that a person no longer decides on parole, but in principle, always now decides on the court or the County Court. That '97 solution. the year when a commission consisting of judges of the Supreme Court and of representatives of the State Attorney's Office and the Court of Justice was appointed, we consider it better to rule the court because, in the end, this is completely changed, so the verdict is completely changed for the defendant, because otherwise its issue is resolved further, so on the maintenance of that part of parole at large with scrutiny, which is completely different from that of the '97 Penal Code. the fact that, according to this proposal, the law requires at least half of the sentence with a minimum of three months of imprisonment. So, in the '97 law. The year was decided to withstand at least 2/3 of the fines, so that in 1/3 of the suspended fines, the convicts could be fired on parole. First of all, this was used in exceptional cases when it comes to health reasons, and according to this bill, if a person sentenced to punishment is sick or severely ill, a prison sentence can be suspended before. Therefore, it will not have to endure this half of the sentence and these minimum three months if such a deterioration of the health condition occurs. Furthermore, this law also specifically signs the special obligations of a suspended convict and otherwise resolves the impeachment of parole. There are two reasons, because the impeachment may be if the person has committed a new offence, so by committing a criminal offence automatically, he is returning to comply with or did not comply with those rules which should have been met as measures to fulfil the person convicted, so that the parole is suspended if he did not comply with those specific rules. Therefore, this bill will always be decided according to the party's proposal. It is also important to point out and it is important that the parole is agreed upon by the convict, so without the consent of the convicts, no measures can be taken after a special discharge. We hope that and we believe that whoever is in prison will agree to these special measures provided for by this law. Because the resociation of convicts and prisoners is certainly an important part of criminal law and therefore, people will be more resociative if they are released earlier under those conditions provided for by the law on the maintenance of penalties. Because faster resociation of the prevention of repetitive crime is one of the essential issues of criminal law, and although it is required to express the consent of the convicts, I believe that this consent will also be obtained because it is certainly easier for everyone to resociate on the loose. Therefore, in these cases, they will decide in the future on the proposal of prisoners, defendants, members of the family of prisoners and state attorneys, or on official duty on the proposal of a prison manager or a penitentiary. The County Court will decide on a three-judge council. What's also different from the '97 law. It is that, therefore, in this bill, those prisoners who have been sentenced to longer term prison sentences are equalized, so that we can say, under quotes, the injustice that was in the last '97 solution. the years of these amendments and additions to the Law on the execution of prison sentences changed. So, what's short and finally, the alignment is that, therefore, existing rules with the new measures that we've adopted in the 2011 Penal Code. It is certainly to point out that this problem, which was referred to by counterpart Shantek about the overcrowding of the Croatian prison system, given the large number of cases and the large number of persons who therefore come under the authority of these laws, we believe that the situation in the prison system of the Republic of Croatia will improve, as well as the changes in the criminal law that we have passed, the different treatment of prisoners, the different possibility, the conditional discharge, the different resociation of prisoners and the whole set of law in criminal law, surely goes from the area of criminal justice to the fact that the prison system is being dispersed and that, with the testing and other measures that the criminal law of the person is being put back on track, that they are no longer committing criminal acts, and that we can say that we have a modern European criminal law which will primarily benefit citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The HDSB Club therefore supports this Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Prison Penalty Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38710	Thank you. Replica, Anna Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38711	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, fellow Salapic, here you have mentioned that this is 12 changes. It's not 12, it's 13 that we're discussing right now is 13 amendments to the law. And if we were to count all the amended provisions in the changes so far, we would probably go far, far over 50% of the amended articles in this law. And it would be good, therefore, to propose a whole new text of this law to pass a whole new law primarily because of those who must apply this law. I absolutely support these changes, so they're good not only in that part because they're in sync and they have to comply with the Penal Code, but it's a good change that I alleviately support, which is that a decision on parole is made by a judge of execution, or by a council. Because parole is in some way unless he is called off after all, reducing the sentence imposed by the court. It is therefore good to transfer this reduction of the sentence imposed in the area of the executive authority. So, although the previous commission was mostly composed of representatives of the judicial authority, it was named by the minister. And it's especially good that there's no more authority to fire the warden of the penitentiary on the so-called so-called. Previously on "Little parole"... So, it's a good thing this is transferred to the justice sphere, so to the courts. He has to comply with the Penal Code. But if we had a whole new law ahead of us then, in the context of these discussions and its adoption, we could discuss the entire prison system and what counterpart Shantek was talking about on behalf of the HDZ Club, and these are the conditions in prisons, the means needed for that and in general the execution of the prison sentence, and we wouldn't have to limit ourselves to parole.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38712	Thank you. Replication response, Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38713	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear MPs Lovrin, we fully agree here, so this is not important now whether the 12th or 13th amendments matter that these are solutions that are in line with modern criminal legislation and conditions of Croatia's entry into the EU. I agree with you and that our prison system is in trouble, first of all for those reasons that we've repeated here several times, these are conditions, these are also financial reasons. We saw that in this budget about 800 million kuna was less for the Resort Ministry of Justice which I thought was not good because everything would work better if it had enough resources to modernise it financially, computer equipment, that people could be educated. We also see under this next law that will come that now not only will the Croatian language be used in the Criminal Procedure Act but also foreign languages and English and so on, depends on which party is in the process of joining the EU. This certainly requires great material resources, so if we want modern criminal law and through criminal proceedings, and we realize all the rights of the parties in the process that our laws already have, then we need to secure enough financial resources and it simply needs to find places in the state budget to do so. But I'm also in favour of a whole new law on the execution of a prison sentence. I am sure, given the intensity of the Ministry of Justice's work in this call, and in the past, I believe that this law will soon occur because if anything can be praised in the work of the current government it is certainly the portfolio of the Ministry of Justice. I also say that as a lawyer, and also as a person who follows the work of the ministry and the minister, and there's nothing that could be said that's not the case. That's right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38714	We're moving on to an individual debate. The first is Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38715	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, I'm glad to see you here again because here I must commend your zeal for following the debates in the House from your ministerial position. I'm not a lawyer, but I know as well as all of us here for the conditions in our prisons, for the overcrowding of prisons, for the prison system, and for all the problems that arise mainly at this time when we're in deep to say the mildly spoken recession. But here's when we adopted here and discussed the law, so those instruments in the criminal procedure and in the solutions that are also European, so from the trial and then the Institute of Work for General Good, here we now have here on the benches something more about parole. I will not enter the legal solutions themselves, they are as my colleague Salapic said modernly, on the trail of European solutions in criminal proceedings and the execution of penalties. And then here's 12, 13 as my colleague, Lovrin, said a little bit at a time, we came up with something, a material that we all agree we'll all be, to raise our hands for. In fact, these days we are also witnessing numerous judicial proceedings in criminal proceedings that here very often, unlike earlier years, this work is used for the greater good. Now, Mr. Minister, I'd like to ask you something, even though you and I don't have the right to interfere in the judiciary and their decisions, but I would just like to appeal, call for equal application of the rules for everyone. And it doesn't seem like it when we look at some judgments. It seems that there are certain precedents in which it comes I would say so laicically to some reliefs or perks for some. In Croatian, there are 7 declines in our spelling and grammar, but the sixth one that often leads if we speak metaphorically to crimes, it is a localistic one, and we have an eighth that is not included in Croatian language or spelling and it is called corruption. These two downfalls are the most common reasons for criminal proceedings or the consequences resulting from these two downfalls, locatives and corruption. And then we have these processes, and now I'm not going to name any because it's not nice, name or court or whether it's county or any other, Supreme or I don't know which court. It doesn't matter, so we don't get involved in judicial matters. But I'm talking about when these judgments are made, then what citizens expect most, and that's exactly from that eighth drop of corruption, the money that's being paid back by that store to say blurry, that's what this store acquired in an illegal way. That's what citizens in a situation like this expect first. But we as advocates really have to, and I wonder if the same application of rights, regulations, rules, law for all? Is someone for 20,000 kunas of a corrupt part of a bribe or what, I don't know either, we have examples I'm not going to say now, get two years in prison, one-and-a-half unconditional. And we see cases that up to half a million kunas, we're not going to talk about euro, or in euro, or in any way since July 1st, we're going to be able to, and that's a couple of months' work for the general good "and get back what you've done" and that's all. So here's my appeal to you, and I don't know how much you can do it, but also to those who may be looking at high court cases, maybe they're listening to this, to apply that right to everything. Regardless of their legal skills and therefore their work in court, there should still be no such precedents that are really in the eyes of the public, citizens who read the newspaper and follow the media. That is why, as counterpart Salapic also said, we think that, by this final proposal of the Penal Code, the aim is to reduce the traffic in our prisons, reduce the overcrowding of prison facilities, as the prison overcrowding is said. We will see in the future whether it will be so soon, and if it might be good as the minister said, so whether the economy or finance is going to close up in a private-public partnership in some future time, someone will have an interest in doing business in the sphere, although given the situation that is now in Croatia, it is difficult to eat. The HDSSB club has already said it will support this bill and then so will I. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38716	Thank you. Minister, would you like to say something final? Minister Orsat Milenić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38717	So, I thank you for supporting the law. I'll start at the end, so this isn't a prelude to privatisation and there won't be any privatisation of the prison system. Of course there are certain problems, this may not be a topic right now, and we'll discuss it safely when there's a debate on the situation, so the report on prison and penitentiary situations. There are problems, they are primarily financial, but the efforts of people who work there and the whole system is all under control and are actually being pulled out as much as possible and doing the best they can. As far as this law is concerned, he will, along with this package, also contribute to the dispensation of the prison system. So there will be no increase, but there will be a reduction in the number of people there not only because of this law, but also because of the Penal Code we talked about, a different approach to enforce sanctions. So that's the whole one package. So we're going with something over 5,000 people in prison, now we're at about 4800, we're on a good European average, the average of countries we need to pursue, means a little over 100 people per 100,000 population, which shows that both criminal policy is good and well balanced. Of course it is always necessary to balance for the sake of legal certainty, that judicial practice must be evened, but here it is not on us that it is in the courts, certainly that the courts are doing it. Anyway, thanks for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38718	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38719	Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, second reading of P.Z. No. 279. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask the Deputy Minister of Justice, respected by Sandra Artuković Kunšt, to be shown about the amendment number, in fact once the amendment of the Committee on Law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38720	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The government is manifested in a way that accepts the proposed amendment with a view to changing it in a way, if I may now read it?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38721	Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38722	Therefore, Article 17 is amended as follows: "To the criminal offences which have been imposed or are carried out in accordance with the provisions of the Penal Code, "National Journal" No 110/97, 27/98, 50/00. Constitutional Court Decision, 129/00, 51/01, 111/03, 190/03 Judgment of the Constitutional Court, 150/04, 84/05, 71/06, 110/07, 152/08, 157/11. and 77/11. the decision of the Constitutional Court shall apply the provisions on the conditional exemption from the Prison Penalty Act (“National Journal”) No. 128/99, 50/00, 59/00, 129/00, 59/01., 67/01., 11/02., 190/03.-cleared text, 76/07., 27/08., 83/09/18/11, 48/11. and 125/11." Can I give you an explanation?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38723	All right, all right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38724	It is, in fact, that Article 17 regulates the application of parole institutes, but in relation to those penalties imposed in accordance with the provisions of the 97th Penal Code. The law has been amended, but it does not apply to it, so in NN 125/11 and 143/12/12 the government would accept the amendment but with the amended part that they are not listed in the brackets of both these NN 125/11 and 143/12 because these are not the 97 law governing conditional leave.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38725	Thank you very much. I would like the President-in-Office of the Committee on Legislatives, Ingrid Anticevic-Marinovic, to be seen. Thank you very much. The amendment has been accepted this way. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I'd like to make a statement about the final bill. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that, unanimously with 110 votes, the Law amending and supplementing the law on the execution of prison sentences in the text is proposed by the Proposer along with the amendment adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38726	We will discuss - Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Criminal Procedure, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 354; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Justice. You received the report at the session. Introducing the proposal, Justice Minister Mr Orsat Milenic will explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38727	Thank you very much. It is therefore a single harmonisation of the Criminal Procedure Act with three directives. We went with it now because of some time sequence, we couldn't wait for this change of the CAP we're working to bring it into line with the Constitutional Court's decision. So these are three directives, I would particularly point out this about the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings since it is actually unlike the other two inputs and some major changes. So it's spreading the circle, and the possibility and right of the defendant to translate including his communication with the defender. It's just one standard that we have to adopt. Here through the text of the law we tried to balance it, it's always about judicial control and it's the court that will allow and enable that communication. What is important is that if that right is violated, it cannot be based on a court ruling. As far as these other two directives are concerned, code means we establish a principle, we act in the best interests of the child, and we avoid that so-called. double victimization, so we're introducing a video-link hearing, etc. So the victim doesn't get further victimized. So these are primarily technical changes that are ahead of you, slightly greater than this interpretation and translation. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38728	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38729	Thank you, Vice President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The debate is going as fast as we are entering the EU. We can't even think about everything we want to say, but here. Therefore, the harmonisation of the Criminal Procedure Act with EU directives, so with the 2010 directives, through 64 rights of interpretation and translation into the 2011/36 criminal procedure, the EU Directive prevents the fight against human trafficking and the protection of human trafficking victims and the 2011 EU Directive 92 against sexual abuse, child exploitation and child pornography. So these are technical amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, we have the Criminal Procedure Act, which in large part is in line with the European legal system. This is where we intervened in 7 articles of the Criminal Procedure Act, Article 8,44,45, 145,239, 292, and 330. In Article 8, 145 and 239, the Directive in question therefore requires the EU Member State to enable a defendant who does not speak or does not understand the language in which the criminal proceedings are conducted to notify, from the moment of notification, that he or she is suspected or accused of a criminal offence, until the very completion of that procedure, and in that part of the extraordinary legal medicinal products in which the final answer to the question of whether or not the person has committed a criminal offence is therefore allowed to interpret and translate into criminal proceedings. It can also be written translation, it can be verbally dependent on parties in the process, on understanding one or the other. What raises the question here opens one might also freely say a new page in the Croatian legislative process, the Law on Criminal Procedure and Criminal Procedure as a whole, which is why this directive is very important to us because the procedure itself will no longer be conducted exclusively in the Croatian language, a Latin letter rather than in one of the languages of the EU countries. First of all, it opens up a few dilemmas. It's also an increase in costs. We see that the appropriations must not be provided in these amendments and additions to the law as far as it is ensured by budgetary means in terms of covering the costs of the implementation of this Directive, because no matter what party in the procedure, which is therefore released or convicted, and no matter which prosecutor who is the defendant of the costs of the procedure is borne by the Republic of Croatia, or the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. Now is this the best solution given the conditions in which we currently operate and live and the conditions of our judiciary? We see there's a lack of financial resources. This will first and foremost collect criminal proceedings for sure because this is something that has not been done in our Criminal Procedure Act so far. Also, in the light of the deadlines in the Criminal Procedure Act, the speed of the response to the adoption of acts in the procedure is also required and the expertise and competence of the court’s capacitation and what needs to be highlighted. This further training of judges and parties in criminal proceedings requires, above all, material costs as it will no longer be possible to be such a tropic of criminal justice, especially as I say here, urgent treatment in the light of legal deadlines, so that it should also enable employees to be trained in justice, judges, state attorneys, deputy state attorneys, because they should all, in the process with translators, know foreign language because by entering Croatia into the EU and by amending this law, see that in this section, the criminal proceedings will be completely changed when such parties are in the process. So other than dropping the burden on the state budget should provide money will fall the burden of further developing the parties in the process which we do not consider to be bad. This is certainly good, and we are, becoming an EU member and we should follow the rules and rules of EU legislation because we have implemented our system of things. However, according to this financial act, this is except for the procedural legal rights of parties to have the right to interpretation, translation in all spheres of the procedure. It is also a kind of financial issue for the state budget of the Republic of Croatia. As regards two other directives on the prevention of the fight against trafficking in human beings and the protection of the rights of victims of trafficking, the Directive was transported through the provision of Articles 44 and 45 and the Directive in the fight against sexual abuse, sexual exploitation of children, child pornography was implemented in the Criminal Procedure Act by supplementing Article 44 and by supplementing Article 33(3) of the Criminal Procedure Act. Therefore, these are directives which will primarily protect the child's integrity and reduce its secondary legitimacy but, unfortunately, if such a child has experienced such a burden, such a crime on his back should not, therefore, be further exposed and heard by the parties in order to introduce unpleasant situations, but also, in view of the modernisation and technology, it will also be possible to examine through audio visual instruments or in its home and in certain other ways which provide for these directives that directly implement all of us in terms of protecting the child's rights, protecting the child from therefore further victimisation and further bringing into unpleasant situations concerning the examinations before the parties in the process. So these are technical changes but they essentially improve the protection of the rights of the child in this part in the light of all those conventions that we have taken over. So these are the directives which are on track, therefore, the protection of parties in the process here in this case of children, and in this first part, it will fully in one significant and larger scale not only technically change the criminal procedure itself, because it will therefore be used except for Croatian and other foreign languages, and it will require certain costs for the state budget, and here we would like to know how much of this funding is being made in the light of the urgent procedure provided that in that position of 1 July of this year, how much of the funds planned for the implementation of this Directive in the Criminal Procedure Act. Finally, the HDSSB club supports the adoption of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38730	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ representative club, colleague Ana Lovrin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38731	Thank you very much. Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Minister with an associate, colleagues and colleagues. The HDZ Club will support the final draft law amending and supplementing the Criminal Procedure Act. namely, as we have heard in previous statements, it is a matter of technical amendment to the law which implements the provisions of the EU directive into the text of the law. Here is a law which has already started in 2009 with four amendments, we expect very quickly and the fifth to be followed by the Constitutional Court's decision which has ordered further amendments to this law. Given that these amendments regulate the question of the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings for participants in a procedure that does not understand the language in which the proceedings are conducted and the Directives on the prevention and fight against human trafficking and the protection of victims of human trafficking as well as the fight against sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. As we know from the EU directives, unlike the regulations that apply directly and fully, I would say that I would leave certain options for specific adaptations to national legislation, so to speak simplistically. So how, by assembling this Directive on the right to interpretation and translation in criminal proceedings, of course, we are significantly extending the right of participants in the process of translation and interpretation. I've asked the Minister a question on the board, is this how wide-ranging and proposed right in these amendments and additions necessary? Namely, these amendments and additions determine, as it has been in one section so far, that in the criminal procedure in use of Croatian language and Latin letter, of course except in the area of those courts which, in accordance with the Constitution and the Law on the Rights of National Minorities, have introduced bilingualism. However, it is determined that parties and other participants in the process have the right to use their own language. This right extends not only to the court's own proceedings but also to the communication of defenders and defendants in actions that take place outside the court's own proceedings, so in preparation for defence, communication with the defender. As one condition is, I asked if there was any possibility that in this bill it would somehow limit it to foreigners. So we know that Croatian citizens or that one of the conditions of acquisition of Croatian citizenship is knowledge of Croatian language, the question being whether such a broad definition makes it possible for me not to tell abuse, that would be too difficult to say, abuse of procedural powers, but perhaps one easy reach for this right because it might be more comfortable for someone. However, I have received the answer that the directive is clear in this regard and that there was no such possibility of imposing restrictions. In any case, the Court will indeed have to assess, in the conduct of the proceedings, the satisfaction of the participants in the process of translation and interpretation. The court will have to do that. His right will have to warn him. The participant in the procedure has the right to waive the right to translation in writing and that statement must be unequivocal, clear and free. And this is important because after something else might be the reason for breaking the court ruling because this law also says that the evidence provided by the violation of the right to translation cannot be based on a judicial decision. Thus, this is the proposal to amend Article 8. Indeed, these rights are significantly extended. I think it is good and important that this applies not only to those people who do not speak and understand the language in which the procedure is conducted, but also to all deaf and dumb persons who should definitely be supported during the whole procedure, outside of the procedure and on exceptional legal medicines as well. What counterpart Salapic was also talking about, which is the cost, the proposer said, in the light of the adoption of this law, that the costs that would be increased by the adoption of this law in the position of 3237 intellectual and personal services in county and municipal courts, state attorneys and USKOK that the funds were foreseen. I'm afraid what he is now, although he did not specify how much funding was provided for, but we know and daily we are witnesses, we listen and read that at the position of intellectual and personal services in courts, the permanent and years of resources are missing. This applies to all those skills, paying for art, etc. interprets that this law determines that translation and interpretation will be done by a court interpreter. They have their tariffs, so it's very certain that, as so far, they don't have the resources in that position that they're going to miss them even more and we're going to see through court practice how many of these demands they're going to be, how many courts are going to approve of them and how much money they're going to spend on it. But here, there is nothing left but to install the directive in national legislation in accordance with the commitments made. As far as these other two directives are concerned, of course we support them because they are at the benefit of the child and victims of human trafficking, and here is this presumption that is being introduced, the presumption and the favorite of the child if there were doubts about the age of the victim of the child that she, the victim, was not 18 years old, so she will be considered a child. In the same way, if it is the child's victim's hearing, if it is in the video of the child being reproduced by a change in character and voice, of course whenever it is in the child's interest, and it is good that this provision of the law also continues, taking into account the interests of the proceedings as a whole, because of course they are two important interests that must be complemented and always find the right measure to protect both of these legitimate interests. For all these reasons that I have cited, the HDZ Club supports this final bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38732	Thank you. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of the Independent Representative Jadranka Kosor and Croatian Civil Party counterpart Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38733	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Mr. Minister with an associate. The club I represent with the Croatian Civil Party supports these amendments and additions to the Criminal Procedure Act. We believe that these are of course not only technical changes or just harmonisation with European Union directives, but they are certainly in one part an improvement in the CAP because, among other things, in this way, we are not only in line with the directives of the European Union but also with two UN conventions, the Convention on the Rights of the Child and the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. So good, important changes. Of course, it should always try to make laws that have this importance and weight for every citizen and every citizen of the Republic of Croatia as little as possible, but these changes are necessary because in a few days we become a member of the European Union. So the changes and additions that we are talking about above all are those that talk about the welfare of children in the protection of children and minors, but also victims of human trafficking, i.e. in the broadest sense of the victims of violence, so in the protection of victims of violence in general. It is good to strengthen these provisions on the right to translation, in particular translation by the defendants who are disabled. So here it's said that the right to an interpreter has, among other things, people who are deaf or dumb, and I have submitted to Mr. Ministers an amendment that I suggest another category that is completely autonomous of these two, so these are deafer persons. So these are people who may be among the most difficult disabled in general, people who are very hard to contact the world. This is an extremely difficult form of disability, and they always need additional support, so here I suggest you include, in this article or this item one more word, which is with deaf and dumb and deaf. It is certainly an amendment that will help us to be fully in line with the provisions of the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It is certainly important that the news that speaks of the right to translation, among other things, is that the evidence provided by the violation of the right to translation cannot be based on a judicial decision. I think the courts will be very good at estimating that they could potentially prevent any abuse of these provisions. As for the change of articles relating to a child as a victim of a crime, I think it is very important and very good that when treating a child, the authorities will primarily be managed by the best interests of the child. It's absolutely in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. I think that we would also point out several times in the debates, that we would also make this provision that says that the victim is a child if there are indications that she has not turned 18, it is absolutely in accordance with the Convention on the Rights of the Child which says that the child is every person who has not turned 18 years of age. And I appeal that our other laws to the Family Law absolutely comply with the Convention on the Rights of the Child. Of course, it is important to include in the large scope of the CAP in Article 45, persons who are victims of human trafficking and additional protection of their rights, therefore protection of personal data, exclusion of the public, etc. So, Mr. Minister, we support the amendments and additions to this law, especially at the end of the amendment that also speaks of child protection. So, if it's on tape, the kid's footage will be reproduced by changing the character and voice of the child if it's necessary to protect the child's interests. I think it's always important to protect the child's interests and that it should always be done. Finally, on the assessment of the resources necessary for the implementation of this amended Criminal Procedure Act. You listed positions in the budget where we can find how much funding will be needed to implement such a amended and updated law. But I think it would be until the end of the debate, or finally, when we vote to make it true, it simply means to add all this together so that MPs and MPs know how much in the 2013 budget by the end of this year we will single out in order to comply with the provisions of this amended Criminal Procedure Act and implement it. Full backup. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38734	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38735	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on criminal proceedings, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 354. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Committee on Legislatives and the honourable representative of Jadranka Kosor. I ask the Deputy Minister of Justice of the Honorable Sandra Artuković Kunst to manifest himself. First, the Committee on Legislatives, Amendment 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38736	Thank you very much. The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38737	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the law. The amendment of the respected representative of Jadranka Kosor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38738	Thank you very much. The Government accepts that amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38739	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. Please vote on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I find that it is unanimous with 110 votes for the adoption of the Law amending and supplementing the law on criminal proceedings in the text as proposed by the Proposer together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38740	We will discuss - The Final Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 343. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate pursuant to Article 164. Rules of Procedure. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. The introduction will explain the draft law of the Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship and crafts Mr Drazen Pross. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38741	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Parliament, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of Parliament and MPs. In front of you is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development and allow me to present it briefly. Starting above all from the basic objective, the general objective of this law is to improve and make all those measures and instruments accessible to foster small economy development, in those conditions where Croatia becomes a member of the EU and when significant sources of funding for the development of the small economy from EU funds are being opened. The specific objective is to contribute to a successful and effective system of solutions for a small economy, and given the large number of holders of the measures and instruments of the law, and to allow access to this information through the central information system. This law, therefore, addresses a number of key issues first. First of all, the establishment of a central information system of a small economy, as a whole, to implement and monitor measures and instruments to promote small economy development, but also to assess the economic impact at national and regional level. The obligation of the holder of measures and instruments to promote the development of a small economy for inclusion in this central information system is also established. Also, more clearly, encouraging measures and activities are prescribed, and in line with the guidelines set out in the EU Economic Act. And what is crucial and important in this law is the accession of the business-innovation agency of the Republic of Croatia to the Croatian Small Economy and Investment Agency, at the latest by 1 July 2014, and on which day, the Croatian Agency for Small Economy and Investments is named HAMAG BICRO, i.e. the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments. This also extends the activities of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investment to providing innovative instruments of support for the development of entrepreneurship and crafts provided for in EU strategic documents on structural instruments, which will be able to be financed from the expected more generous financial envelope funds for the period 2014-2020. What exactly does these changes mean in practice? First of all, the accession of BICRO to HAMAG Invest represents the association of the forces of agencies whose joint focus is entrepreneurs who actually share common goals, which are the launch of new knowledge-based companies, advanced technologies, innovations and what else is to strengthen the competitiveness of these companies. HAMAG BICRO will be able to implement all the necessary products and services intended for a small economy more quickly and comprehensively, and in particular with regard to innovative entrepreneurship. HAMAG BICRO will be able to assess for entrepreneurs the market potential of their ideas and know how to stimulate them through support and other financial instruments, for example guarantees. And what is very important will allow them better access to funding through venture capital funds in further stages of development. What is important will be achieved by reducing the costs of HAMG Invest and BIRCRO which have, therefore, related and related activities and ultimately include the same target group of entrepreneurs. And nothing less important will be established a new, cheaper and transparent central information system of monitoring and instruments to promote small economy development. What does an easier access to sources of finance mean to entrepreneurs? This accession means that on the one hand, BICRO, which has the practice of implementing development and improving the innovation and technology system and on the other, HAMAG Invest, which has the expertise to finance entrepreneurs, will issue a guarantee for loans in order to finance the realisation of their projects, will be able to direct innovative business projects to that level of profitability on the market and thus facilitate their funding through guarantees and of course support. Such cooperation between BICRO and HAMAG investment already exists, given some hamag investment guarantee programmes, one of them is, for example, an innovation programme whereby for all investment in material assets entrepreneurs must first have the approval of BICRO. When we talk about investments for the Republic of Croatia, it is essential to launch investments in order not only to increase the economic potential, create and implement new knowledge, technology, business integration into international production and business systems and markets. As you know in Croatia there is a network of business angels investing in microprojects and mainly in the ICT sector. But there are also 5 venture capital funds management companies that invest in medium and large projects through those companies that are already operating and looking for funds to boost core activity or again greenfield projects mainly from the field of classical industries. This accession of BICRO to HAMAG opens up the possibility of facilitating the implementation of EU initiatives which, through the vetura capital investments in new innovative companies and thus commercially-transparent projects for such projects, provide a capital source currently and not present to such a extent on the Croatian capital market, and enables the transfer of knowledge and technological solutions from the scientific sector directly to the economy. The fact is also that HAMAG-BICRO under the same roof will have a department, i.e. an organisational unit in charge of finding and technical assessment investment opportunities, but also a unit in charge of economic assessment and structure of transactions and negotiations with companies and of course participation in the management, or supervision of companies. All this will be possible because HAMAG and BICRO have their own network of consultants who design and assist in developing business plans or projects for a small economy. The merger of these networks will achieve this synergy effect and, of course, a greater impact safely and technologically. And at the end of what's the use of joining BICRO and HAMAG? It will also enable better use of EU funds through the combined and operational and financial capacities of HAMAG and BICRO. This is certainly one guarantee for both a better and a systematic strengthening of a new institution and its role as a future intermediary body, or ultimately the end-user of these EU funds. This is certainly one big guarantee and for better use of funds, which is ultimately a common goal for all. When we talk about a small economy, it should also be pointed out that during this period of 2014-2020 it will actually be directly available to the small economy from the EU funds almost 2 billion euros, which means 250m euros per year directly in the system of grants support. So it's a total of 1.7 billion and a total of 250m euros related to financial instruments. To this end, I would just like to mention the fact that there is an ongoing and programming for the EU's financial perspective for the 2014-2020 period and, therefore, it is necessary to strengthen the capacity of HAMAG-BICRO to implement these Structural Funds as soon as possible. This simply means that the development objectives and areas of investment and strategic documents are being negotiated and therefore the EU funds needed. So that means to stimulate the development of a small economy. The esteemed legislators and advocates of this law therefore achieve compliance with the regulatory framework in the EU and, of course, the need to establish an advanced system of incentives for a small economy, which will certainly contribute to a dynamic and balanced economic development. At any moment, through the central information system of the Ministry of Enterprise and Trade, it will be very clear how these measures are implemented. The system will also allow monitoring of the work of all the holders of the measures under this law, and its data and information will also be a concrete basis for an economic assessment of the impact of the support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38742	Thank you. Replica, Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38743	Thank you, Madam Vice President. In fact, I'm amazed at the amount of unwarranted optimism most often by the deputy ministers, and sometimes the ministers here also express phrases, euphemisms that actually mean something else than what's actually happening. One of them is to help entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and craftsmen. With a new organization, so we reorganize what doesn't work now, which in no way helps, connects, separates, converts from hollow to empty nothing happens. It is also said that Mr. Deputy Minister was talking about encouraging investment that is extremely important for Croatia. All entrepreneurs without exception say such a large, complicated and inefficient administration of dams is entrepreneurship in Croatia. It simply does not react, but the administration continues to be complicated. You talked about how the business of small entrepreneurs would be cheaper. How will it be cheaper when none of the 250 parafiscal charges are intended or reduced, let alone abolish? A craftsman who deals with air conditioning pays among other things and a contribution to the forest, which is perfectly insane. I read in the paper that the minister says that the EU looks up to us, not to God. Well, we're autists, and that's not who they are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38744	Answer to the deputy minister's reply, I'll beg there from the bench. Drazen Pross.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38745	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. When we talk about optimism, that optimism is necessary and necessary. And when we talk about optimism in the segment of small economy development, then we can talk about it in a concrete, exact way. So when we talk about investments in a small economy in 2012 it was actually almost a billion kuna investments that were more in the small economy segment than in the large economy. So if we record any positive shifts in these investments anywhere, then it's a small economy segment. It is safe and we are aware that it is not enough, but this association of BICRO to HAMAG INVESTU, in fact, creates a common force that is able to therefore be far more quality and faster way of removing administrative barriers for entrepreneurs and all investors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38746	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38747	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, I'd just like to comment on your last two three sentences, "Hope dies last," that's right. In fact, I was really saying that I would be delighted that here we have received the Law on fostering the development of a small economy, counting that in this legislative proposal, i.e. in amendments and additions, there will be something concrete, therefore in relation to fiscal and reduction and parafiscal burdens or the promotion of a small economy. When we talk about this most tough segment, but what I just said isn't about it, it's about a clean one-of-a-kind technical law that reorganises the two agencies of HAMAG and BICRO so far. So, Croatian agencies for a small economy and business innovation agency of the Republic of Croatia, simply fusion in one agency that, by what you said it should be, give a new swing through the measures and instruments it will implement in the period from 2014 to 2020 in this small economy. But until now, experience has not really encouraged us as counterpart Vuljanic said earlier. You see, it's, your government's been a year and a half, your government, the government you're in, and you're certainly an employee, is a year and a half. Let's say, or let's ask ourselves why, since we already know that this... signed in December 2011, after a year and a half it comes to the idea that this would be more effective, to say more effectively connect these two... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Why aren't they connected so far in a year and a half? [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So to organise and prepare precisely for measures and instruments that will be able to withdraw those funds from the EU structural, accession funds for a small economy. There is already one programme in the EU that is being implemented, so-called SMS or small and middle entertainment service so for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, program until 2020. And there are 500 million people in the EU, about 500 million people in the EU, and there are exactly 22 million small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. The aim of this programme is to have at least one of these companies, the firm, at least each of these companies, hire one at a time, one at a time. It's 22 million new jobs. Now, back to Croatia, and then this material in the assessment of the situation says that there are 170 356 such entities in Croatia. If we had the same goal, each of those small, medium, micro, or cooperatives that all belong to that group, would hire one. That's 170 thousand new jobs. In some good faith, here we will believe that it will really be more effective or more effective although it is the future, pro future, we will give you to say our faith, and we will be for this legislative proposal, although it is only technical and organisational now, thus joining HAMAG, and in the assessment of the funds necessary for the implementation of this law, it says: "That additional funding in the state budget of the Republic of Croatia is not needed", and in the light of the law, it says, "That the number of board members will increase so that they will increase from 13 to 15.", further: "That the salaries of the president, members of the administration, management president, vice-president of the government decision of the Republic of Croatia will be increased, but not more than the salaries or coefficient for deputy ministers' salaries." And how is that not going to require a single kuna to be provided in the state budget? I don't know, or I don't think well that's what you're gonna tell me. It is good that it will finally be formed again I say if the contractual way, the central information system, and I'm surprised that in the era after the imagination of the information system has not yet been established, the central information system in which all the subjects of these 170 thousand will be, and every day I would like you to tell me how much we can see in our cities, mainly in Slavonia, how many empty places there are in the city, how much each day turns off, etc. So this number of 170 thousand entities in the small and medium-sized economies is really impressive and approximately somewhere on a level or average with the number of such entities and in the EU. It's around here somewhere. But I also have tips, and in conversations with them, the business conditions of our small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are very, very difficult. With the number of paperwork needed, which we haven't gotten rid of yet, it's actually in this law and it's not in the rest of the discussion, which would relieve just the take-off of the investment and each other. It's not there. Unfortunately, there isn't. There was still an attempt to disburse the economy with a measure to reduce, this is one example, to reduce the contribution to health insurance from 15% to 13%. It's a very smart idea to relieve the economy of 2% of so-called health insurance cuts. And what we did. We're taking care of hospitals now, so there's no health care without money. Over 5 billion say seven billion kunas in health care are missing hospitals. That's what Vuljanic said, spilling from hollow to empty. This is where we freed the state and HZZO or hospitals with a debt of 5 to 7 depending on what counts, 5 to 7 billion kuna. What was therefore the reduction measure and which produced a reduction in the contribution to health insurance. Nothing, nothing's better for the economy and better for the health care. It got even sicker. So think about such measures, so not about such measures, but about how we would allow our little businessmen to survive. How do you take off so much parafiscal burdens as a colleague says he makes air conditioning so he pays a contribution for the woods or I don't know what and what all the contributions are not paid or parafiscal burdens as it's called official, right? So the law or bill of law changes apply exclusively to fusion, the merger of two Croatian agencies is one HAMAG that we know about, so the small economy agency and the other business innovation agency of the Republic of Croatia called BICRO or the BICRO, however you want to build up a central information system and give stronger support to technical and any other small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in terms of implementing measures and instruments, which is quite descriptive and descriptively nothing in particular I see there. There used to be a program and now there are measures and instruments. So that's what it's called, so it's just this verbal equilibristic that's being carried out here in this bill. And something else when you talk about consultants, the merger of a network of consultants, I must warn you that there are also numerous development agencies from cities in many cities, large cities and counties. It is called CETERA, a Technological Development Centre in Brod-Posavina County, Osijek ERA and Slavonia and Baranja, etc. Which has, so these agencies also have consultants. What will happen to consultants of regional development agencies and experts who have so far proven themselves in withdrawing funds from pre-accession funds. It seems to me that this and this segment are somehow centralized in this new agency, HAMAG BICRO, and that the centralised pooled eye here in Zagreb decides on projects and programmes from all over Croatia, which is confirmed by the decisions of the Ministry of Regional Development, so the professor of Greece, etc. So that's what's confirmed and what's being said out of silence is not publicly because everyone's clearly afraid that if someone from high school is mentioned to tell the executive authorities in a high position they'll be at the moment when he's offering his project or asking for the realization of his.../The speaker doesn't understand./... you can't. Because project placement is centralised towards structural and cohesion funds, and that's not good. So consultants are probably private consulting companies that will make their profits and profits at writing and projects for small and medium-sized businessmen. If the door is opened, instead of being written where it is created and where there is a fully qualified and professional when it actually makes money on written projects through the united agency HAMAG-BICRO and their consultants, or are consultants employed by the agency in that new agency HAMAG-BICRO. What's it gonna be called? I don't know what's new. Is the name changed or not? That's the problem I put forward, and since hope dies, the last thing we're going to believe is that this is well-intentioned and with good intentions will be carried out, God forbid, so we won't be so bad as to raise our hand to this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38748	We're moving on to replicas. Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38749	Dear colleague, I will refer to two of your claims or two key moments in the debate. One of these is when you said that there are 170 thousand entities or small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, and when each would hire one, there would be 170 thousand employees. And this is how you see it in the eye. But what you also pointed out in the debate, no concrete solutions are offered, no concrete moves, no concrete ideas. What does it mean to create frameworks for these entrepreneurs to really have and on what basis to hire one? Someone's gonna hire two, someone's not gonna hire one, but they're gonna take those measures. So 14, 15 months here we've been listening to promises but we haven't got any ideas. As we talked yesterday all the time, I'm convinced even my colleagues that there is a strategy, I don't think I know if anyone knows in public what a employment strategy it is. The second aspect you've been talking about is the reduction of the health contribution. This is one of the biggest delusions that has been made, reducing the health contribution by two index points, which is why employment will now increase or reduce the number of unemployed in Croatia. I would ask you to give statistics on how many newly employed people it is when we know that 80,000 were then fired. What the hell was that? I say, there'd be more. Well, it looks like no one's going to work in Croatia for a year, and then they won't need a contribution for anything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38750	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38751	counterpart Vuksic, the employment strategy, they thought they had a employment strategy by hiring our young people in the EU. They urge them not to say and drive because there is no work here and even through the public media talking about how there are open doors and it has made it possible for our young people to leave Croatia forever, that seems to be a strategy. The other strategies within Croatia are not really how you know and say it yourself. But it's tempting to say a very acceptable idea that 170 thousand... to say the English, so small and medium-sized businessmen in Croatia, employ one at a time. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Well, you see, unemployment would almost be halved. But that is precisely what is lacking in concrete measures and concrete incentives in the small and medium-sized economy, disbursement but not what is a contribution to health care, and now they will not employ radiologists and high codarauses from more medically, nor can they get jobs, and this measure of 2% reduction of health contributions is supposed to boost employment. You can see it didn't produce any effect and you're noticing it yourself. So it would really be interesting to know how much this is based on the 2% reduction in contributions, so the big idea of big ministers with pompous ideas contributes to increasing employment, and in fact we have an increase in the unemployment rate in Croatia, so nothing, zero, zero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38752	Nikola Vuljanic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38753	At one point, you said you'd believe this measure, a move I don't know what to call it. I'm surprised at that, but the poet says poets are a wonder in the world. It is hard to believe that after one and a half years of ruling, reorganisation and interpretation something will be done in office. If something like that had been suggested a year and a half ago, I'd have accepted that the government had a plan, if it knew what it wanted, if it knew where it was going, so now there's a tuba agency to do it afterwards. But that didn't happen. This government is still learning to rule, it's a bad student, and we all pay tuition.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38754	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38755	A colleague of Vuljanić, I have said in my presentation that the incompetence of this government is being expressed precisely in that after a year and a half of the signing... contracts with the EU and the exact date of entry of the 1st of July could have done so as soon as it entered power, but did not. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So she's not thinking too much or too smart or able to think. That's right, that's where you and I get along. Yet, when we look at the Christian aspect, St. Augustine said "Believe and act" and vice versa "act and believe" so here's some gentlemen from HAMAG-BICRO believe and act, let's let them see what they do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38756	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38757	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr Grubisic, you said that parafiscal intrusions actually make it impossible to develop a small economy and I agree with what you said. In fact, I would like to warn you of another fact that anyone who opens the craft earned something or doesn't have to pay about 2,000 such parafiscal duties and contributions per month and if they hire only one more employee, it is another 3400 kuna which significantly prevents the development of a small economy. I note this for the reasons of the mountain-mounted municipality, but also those municipalities of special state concern. It would be in the interest for such people to actually be exempt from taxes or other contributions in order to be less unemployed, and they are also trying to develop a small economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38758	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38759	My colleague Babić, I took a walk with Imotski and Slavonski Brod and other Croatian cities, and even here in Zagreb you can see what happens to a small economy, mainly with crafts. It's a really sad picture, here in my Slavonski Brod to pass downtown, let alone the periphery where, I think, each of the three available places that are designed for a local crafts trip, only one works eventually, the other one is abandoned. Here's a look at Zvonimir Street here in Zagreb, where I often walk on foot, all the bars are closed, even abandoned so much that they are the mockery of the city. This is what happens to small and medium-sized enterprises, so there are no measures for your government or this government, no measures to help small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38760	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38761	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. In front of us, we could say a purely correct technical law, but there's one big but. If Croatia did not have 300,000 unemployed at this time and that the number of unemployed did not have a rapid jump in the last year and a half, that it did not reduce employment, that we were not falling in GDP, that we were not falling in industrial production, that we were not falling in consumption, that our prices were not rising, then we could say that this law is purely correct and probably there would be no need to discuss it at all because probably 90 people to write similar things would have written all this together. However, the key thing and the key problem of this law is that it comes with a year and a half late because at this point, this government simply does not have the right to this law because even if it were to adopt its effects today, it could only give in the second half of next year. So the government had to pass this law last year at this time and that is why this law still needs to be discussed in a slightly different way. Because, look, when the finance minister announces that VAT collectors will go according to the established account, not according to the paid realisation, 100,000 craftsmen in Croatia, in fact something less, let's say 70 thousand in the VAT system are starting to get sober because it ruins their complete system of functioning. And can... is the Minister of Entrepreneurship marketing and PR talk we'll negotiate, can the Government send to this high home to give up an emergency procedure, from the Law on VAT... two readings, it's already caused its negative effects in craftsmen and these effects are far more negative than any positive indication from which it can be very difficult to read what the craftsmen will get from them. And that's why the spoken word of certain government officials is sometimes far, far more dangerous than the well-being that possibly some measures might bring. And colleagues and colleagues, health contributions. I was talking about it on behalf of the club when the state budget was proposed. It's 2 billion and 600 million kunas to say so on a pile, but when you disintegrate it to nearly 300,000 health contributions, it's minor funds. And this government, which already wanted to make aid entrepreneurs, then the 2% increase in VAT was meant to be used in precisely targeted economic programmes so that it could say that something helped. This, unfortunately, small and medium entrepreneurship, and a large one got two punches and two slaps, because with the VAT rate rising by 8.7%, with the price increase in electricity and gas and heating, we took some 5.5 billion kuna from the pockets to Croatian citizens. For 5.5 billion kunas Croatian citizens have a smaller need, they can actually buy less products and services, among other things, most of these products and services are precisely offering those mentioned in this law and should finally be told to the Croatian public. Because look, an increase in VAT revenues of 5.5 billion based on taxes is not even an increase in the consequences of any better and spectacular collection than exclusively the increase in VAT rates, which is why we took these money away from the Croatian citizens' pockets, so we reduced their ability to buy daily and reduced their ability to use some services of small entrepreneurs. These small entrepreneurs will not sell their products and services in Germany or Austria, they can primarily sell them in the Republic of Croatia. And these are the facts of which you can neither do nor in any way can amnesty of it. So, with certain moves made last year, the tax press simply maimed citizens and businessmen of the Republic of Croatia. With the announcement of real estate tax and the constant speculation in Croatia, unfortunately there is no real estate market at all at this time, and this particular property, and perhaps several major companies have been involved in building apartments, everything else has been working either as co-operatives or in one way small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. Well, you know how many economic branches there are in one apartment that are crucial, so a few hundred. So, several hundred times on the entourage, entrepreneurs are out of a job because of the announcement of one tax and the uncertainty of the people that will be tomorrow with those properties. That means a far more difficult blow to the economy and small entrepreneurs than the measures you propose by this law. Also, Deputy Minister, you said here a tragic piece of information, which is that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs invested more than large entrepreneurs. Well, it's a tragedy of a state. Do you know how many small and medium-sized entrepreneurs participate in gross domestic product compared to large ones? And you know from that Birce theory that small entrepreneurs and middle entrepreneurs can't exist without the big ones, they're big up at the top of the pyramid and they're just holding both craftsmen and small and medium-sized entrepreneurs who are simply circulating. As many as it opens up, so many of them are closed to say so. But without the big kids, they can't work. And what we propose by this law, we propose some kind of administrative change. I'm saying that any economist that you gave him regardless of the political option to write this program, actually this law he would write in 90% of things what you wrote. However, what I'm saying is we simply don't want to use the experiences that were in some previous period and that gave us some results, and they also gave us a picture of the Croatian economy. Look at that model A, B and C to help Croatian economies, and after that model A+ simply offered a picture and a problem for the Croatian economy in HBOR. So this model said that the structure of our economy is unfortunately bad, that very low-capital societies and that the societies that are in principle almost cannot be in debt at all because they simply have such a balance. And now, if we're going to help these economies, if we have a clear picture of their ability to get to the credit, because eventually their desire for a risk of taking credit and covering some kind of project because of all this together is at the lowest possible level, then we have a clearly assigned task of what we need to do. So it motivates these people to go into certain manufacturing processes and another thing because of low capitalisation enables them to get credit. Is this HAMAG going to give guarantees something that is long-term looking good and safe for the state? How many of those loans are going to come to the state tomorrow? Because HAMAG is if I'm not wrong now in the front row and the banks are trust me far more cost-effective and better to give credit to the one who has HAMAG's guarantees than who gives some real estate or something else as collateral because it's far more secure that they'll charge this than they'll charge tomorrow possibly a disputed loan from the entrepreneurs. And in the end, we need to ask ourselves one question: whether we banks and entrepreneurs are directing, even those who can borrow themselves to go towards HAMAG and seek HAMAG guarantees and simply eliminate a normal cycle that works in the business world. I also want to say something, because with the merger, the proposal that HAMAG and BICRO join together has one project at the Ministry of Science with the World Bank, and I think that the Ministry of Science for this project got a loan from the World Bank somewhere in 2005 or the sixth year in the amount of $65 million, and this project was concrete and clear, which is how projects are done by colleges, by institutes etc. how to include them in the real economy, i.e. in the real sector and how to connect it. If we eliminate BICRO now and bring it together, we drown it in a single agency that deals with a very different business, I think we sciences about entrepreneurship are pushing it completely to the margins. There is also one fixed sprawl in all the laws sent by this government that does not require additional funding. Now, look at your colleagues and colleagues, if the government is proposing a series of changes and changes, and how do you plan to implement these changes and how do you think helping the economy if the help you've been giving so far has produced all these negative macroeconomic indicators we've been talking about. Then the logical thing is that the funds had to be provided somewhere, so the government simply through some position had to provide additional resources to help these economies. And when we talk about EU funds, we need to be aware of one fact that there are clear rules in the use of these funds. And what was up to, in fact, which will be up to 1.7 until we become an official member of the EU, all the funds that were small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, among other things, and through the programme of this law that was still in force, were more or less resources for restructuring. However, EU funds can only be used to improve competitiveness. And now there is a fundamental question, whether without a union of science, whether without a combination of wits Croatian small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can create projects and programmes that will compete for EU funds that will be used exclusively to increase competitiveness. Unfortunately, I may have skipped, and if I did, I'd be glad to have, and then I apologize in advance, I haven't seen that if we already talk so much about EU funds at least that there are two or three articles that say what the ministry is going to do to help these entrepreneurs make quality programmes, to withdraw those funds. Because they say the simple experience of talking in recent years doesn't have, most of them don't have enough knowledge and experience to withdraw those funds. So, and that's something we had to do if we wanted to declare some things, so at least put it in the law, declare it in law. However, I say here it is listed as it is also listed at the end of the integration of HAMAG and BICRO, and now I don't know if it's a mistake and it's written since 1.7.2014 or 1.7.2013. If it's from 1.7.2014, I really don't understand why. The other thing is, the logical thing is if you want to go with some concrete project to help small and medium enterprises to make such changes, the formation of bodies that should be the bearer of it at the beginning of the term of office, not in the middle of the term of office. So, to conclude a technically well-made law, however, unfortunately all poor macroeconomic indicators suggest that we must do much more and adapt this law to the real needs of Croatian businessmen, rather than declaratively copying from some directives or from some textbooks that should be done. Because some of the moves the government wanted to make as an incentive to the economy are clearly showing that they have failed as well as the central information system. Look, we introduced the OIB with the Central Register at the IRS. And you data on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs can be obtained at this point from several sources. What is crucial is that the Ministry of Economy has a record of which they have given and who are given support and what is the effect of these support. Because look at this law among other things, there's one form that's done, and that's an assessment of the fiscal impact. So, with all these measures, what is the assessment of the Ministry of Economy that will be achieved? And then if you based this one or that one, there are dozens of measures, someone given incentives should be measured after some time to measure what the effects of these incentives are. Why? So because you can never theoretically assume what's going to happen in real life, but if you have to say the measurement points that are the effects of these incentives, then you can react with changes to the law and with certain additions or improvements to the law that will simply correct what was bad. And precisely because of all this expensive therefore the HDZ club will be restrained around this law because unfortunately it comes very late and unfortunately carries nothing concrete. I'm saying, technically and nomotechnically, it's well done but 300,000 unemployed and all those who haven't charged their claims and who are waiting for some job simply can't accept just the argument that something nomotechnical and technical is done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38762	Thank you. We're moving on to replicas. Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38763	Well, my colleague Shuker, at the beginning of the correction, is not 360,000 but 369,000 unemployed. So it's not potatoes, it's people who are unemployed of the Republic of Croatia. But I agree with you, this is another one in a series of laws that we are passing by emergency procedure a year and a half after the elections and appointments of the Government, the Prime Minister. The results of this government are remarkable, at least that's how party television shows and yet reality is very different. And the people in Croatia obviously do not know that they are well, that they live extraordinaryly and that the success of one economy is not measured by the number of laws but by reducing unemployment, by reducing tax burdens. Because it is obvious that the reduction of certain parafiscal burdens that we have practically voted for has not brought anything and that these are not measures that could trigger the Croatian economy. And here I propose to the entire government to take a look at what's going on in Europe, in Germany, in EU countries that one of the main steps is to get out of the crisis decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation because here, and in this law, the units of local self-government are mentioned. We don't have to go to Europe either, we can go to BiH, Macedonia which has changed over the past 10 years thanks to decentralisation. Because Macedonia's prime minister is not interested in the way they invest, i.e. the way the funds are invested, but Macedonia becomes the country that has the largest growth in the region in that part of the Balkans. And we don't stagnate, we fail. And we're very soon to be even with Greece.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38764	Thank you very much. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38765	Yes, therefore, my colleague Vinkovic's reasons for the law do not include macroeconomic indicators which measured some successes or some failures. Because when you listen to the ministers of this government, then there is honey and milk in Croatia. And when you see the citizens living, there's no more meth than honey and milk. So it's reality and this law that was passed last year at this time I said I would, however, support it, but this is after 16 months of the term of office of this government, this law to apply in the 100% effect will not be given until next year. Therefore, this government is blind to the real problems of Croatian citizens, she thinks it works well, thinks that when we join the EU that someone will just throw money at us like this, and let's look at what's going on in our environment, how hard this money is coming to us. You get them in disposition, but you're going to be very hard on them. At the same time, you'll have to pay your dues to both customs and VAT in Brussels, and no one will ask you if you'll do it anyway. We have negative experiences of Bulgarians and Romanians who have withdrawn only 10%. And that's why I'm saying we have some own experiences, these are some models from previous years and previous governments to help the economy that have given some positive and some negative effects. And this is exactly what should have been put together in this law, and if we talk about EU funds, see what happened negatively to Bulgarians and Romanians, what happened positively to the Poles and thus do this programme. Because with one article or half of the article, defining the story about EU funds is simply ridiculous. And let's take what percentage of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs at this point are able to make a quality programme, so as far as competitiveness is concerned, to get money from the EU. So, all of this was supposed to be in the context of this law and in this law and then discuss it all together, and this is how I say and repeat it, and I'm going to repeat it all day while the law is being discussed technically and normically watching the law is purely okay, but unfortunately very hard to apply to entrepreneurs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38766	Thank you very much. Replica Domagoj Milosevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38767	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Dear fellow Shuker, things are actually very simple in 2013. If you really want to help the small economy in Croatia, then you should simply have a bad discussion about paying VAT at the expense of craftsmen and allow small entrepreneurs to pay VAT at the price. If real assistance to the small economy is sought then it is necessary to abolish, not reduce, abolish certain parafiscal burdens for these small entrepreneurs, i.e. craftsmen, and ultimately start investments. However, the most recent report by the Croatian National Bank shows that in the last quarter of 2012 permanent investment in the Republic of Croatia was equal to 0. Specific projects such as Zagreb Airport stands, so Zagreb Airport which is signed, the contract was signed on concession more than a year ago, we don't know what's going on, it's supposed to start building by the end of the year. The Croatian electricity industry, which is a state-owned company, has not launched a single investment, and we are now hearing that the government is considering a foreigner coming to the helm of Croatia's electricity sector. So maybe the government should consider a foreigner coming to the head of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38768	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38769	That fellow Milosevic you have just said what is the problem of this law, because he is not accepting what is really happening in Croatia. The word here is that the kid invested more than big and it shows that some big result is a tragedy, do you take that all the little ones when they add up can't invest in two big companies for the simple reason that... And needs aren't like that. [[You can't hear the speaker away from the microphone.]] But we just have to understand that big investments will pull thousands of small ones that will work and that's the key to the whole story. We forget the basics, it's that Bilic triangle, the pyramid however you like, the craftsmen in the middle of the small and medium entrepreneurs and up on the top of the big ones who just absorb all of this together, are the most indisposed to change, they're tromical, and they're simply holding the whole system. And you didn't even run the big ones, and you simply destroyed the small ones with certain tax changes and tax diameter announcements. You are not aware of what happened to the craftsmen when she announced that they would pay value added tax according to the established account, not the paid realisation. So it causes a consternation because you can talk whatever you want, take their total turnover and take 25% to that or some average rate because there are even lower rates of value added tax, you just need to know that they need as much money as they do to pay that advance, all expensive and to complete it... Just as the budget will pay, it is missing at the end of the year 700, 800 million kuna on that basis that when imports will no longer be paid at the EU border, but will be paid at the time of the sale of the product and that is the cycle that moves in 2 months and will continuously bring 700 million less into the budget each year, so is this, whose cycle would take several hundred million kuna away from the craftsmen, when they would have to provide in one total oddity and thus work. [[- Talk away from the microphone, you can't hear.]] So one such announcement is devastating because you must understand that and the environment something very important to you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38770	Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38771	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Therefore, you mentioned the basic role of HAMAG, which is why it has long been established, the agency which primarily serves and should have been used to issue guarantees for small and medium-sized enterprises activities. And indeed, from 2008 to 2012, somewhere around 665 million kuna for a total of 527 guarantees has been issued and it is often issued by a minister who unfortunately is not there, and although we like to see him in the Assembly, he has been declared a major failure because there are now over a thousand or billions of various guarantees and thus make a significant contribution to small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. This should, of course, be taken into context, that only about 3% of these guarantees in the previous period came to be charged to the state budget. This way under questionable criteria, of course it is heard by various different criteria that are more like similarity, so also sharing guarantees with hand and hat. This should be put in context who will be responsible for when these guarantees come to payment and you are right there, whether these guarantees actually mean illegal state support and how this will reflect against the rules that we know we have to, which we have to stick to. And also, what about these mergers and creating some kind of mega agency from HAMAG, so it deals with everything and everything, and... And we've heard about how much that kind of policy leads to. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And eventually, probably given that the ministry and ministry like to deal with institutions, and especially the Chamber of Commerce. As far as we can see, the relationship between the Chamber of crafts and the Ministry of Homeland and not exactly idyllic lately, the more the ministry wants to do, the formation of a crafts chamber after 150 years of independence. You can finally say that some new law is proposed, that the Chamber of crafts is also likely to move to HAMAG as part of a real and quality policy in the ministry.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38772	Thank you. We have a reply to the replica of fellow Shucker here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38773	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. That a fellow Popiac guarantee should be given for a quality project and such a guarantee is legal support approved by AZT, etc. However, if this guarantee is not given by some criteria and it comes to a charge tomorrow, it can be touched with illegal support and exactly what it means. Guarantees without criteria are only due to this being the best example of shipbuilding that has cost all governments over the past years billions and billions of kuna. Therefore, no one is against it, but I say model A and A+ have shown that unfortunately most entrepreneurs are not creditworthy and no one is against helping entrepreneurs, but clearly there must be criteria, criteria and above all there are projects, projects that are simply visible that, if they are feasible, they will be able to raise employment and increase gross domestic product and the criteria to give someone credit just to exist in a party simply isn't something that is good. The craftsman's chamber that at the moment when the craftsmen clearly raised this voice against tax collection on the invoices at which he felt the need to put his hand on the crafts chamber. Imagine for 160 years there has been a crafts chamber, so both the Austrian and the old Yugoslavia and the communist Yugoslavia, a socialist past so-called. Not the democratic HDZ in Croatia. Now comes the great Kukuriku democracy and they find the right to put their hands on the crafts chamber and sell Croatian insurance that has also experienced all these tourist changes and... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38774	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38775	Dear colleague Shuker, you said earlier that there was no big investment. When there are no large investments, then it is empty to talk about how small entrepreneurs will be helped. Well, I suggest since they're some, since they're empty promises that maybe the government will take the slogan or one of the ministries when the little hands agree, anything can happen. But I think it's too late for a song. It's a little late for a song or we're just left with a song. I think it's not small arms, it's small economic minds. You were talking about European funds. You said there were clear rules of these funds and a good idea that would not be done unless entrepreneurs were helped, if science and entrepreneurs didn't join together, you said brains and entrepreneurs. What's our government doing? Our government throws entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs, medium-sized entrepreneurs into the water and tells them swim and there's no life-saving belt. Eventually, if he throws out a life-saving belt, it's that punctured life-belt. He yells at them, swim, and smoke in that drilling life-saving belt, and what else to pay for, pay for hundreds of parafiscal duties, pay for the view of the forest, but you don't have to go to the woods, watch the woods over TV and pay for what you've seen. It is hypocritical to take medical care and leave a hundred parafiscal duties. Nothing's been achieved, the hospitals have collapsed and there's no money. Then he's getting out of the budget. So it's all upside down. And we're really just left with a song. But sad.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38776	Thank you. We have a colleague Shuker's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38777	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Yes, colleague Vuksic, we are in favour of the adoption of the 2012 budget. And the proposal to cut the contribution by 2% made it clear that someone would pay for it. Here's a government announcement that owes five billion but beyond all the rules. You don't have a single budget position in these five billion, and it clearly says that these two billion and six or seven hundred dollars less health contributions to health care and that this will be paid by Croatian citizens through future taxes because this interest loan will need to be paid back. So that's a fact. It is also fortunate that we are not in years when something new is happening to us every day, so we are affected by some disease but are still relative to what our people would say well in memory, so we remember that the biggest craftsmen in Croatia and during the former state have now been tied to large systems. In addition, some of them have developed their own products and their own engineering bureaus and have become small companies with 50 and 100 employees, and it simply indicates that regardless of the social political arrangement, whether it is a market economy or a plan economy, someone is business-related. Because you can never make a small craftsman one such product that will be competitive on some big market for the simple reason that the product units of fixed costs burden too much, that you have more product units these fixed costs are smaller and that product is competitive. Therefore, these are basic principles and it is insane to speak of them in this assembly at all today, but unfortunately, in this proposal, none of this is accorded. It's said as if it's a small medium-sized enterprise, craftsmanship itself, and it will work for itself. It does not need citizens of Croatia who are rounded by an increased VAT, nor do they need a large economy that has investments, and it simply does not.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38778	Thank you. Next replica Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38779	Thank you. You said a fellow Shuker in your presentation, we know what to do. Well, we probably do, but it's amazing why we're doing it the other way around. We know that we need to help entrepreneurs with a smarter interest policy so the banks are peeling them and what are we doing? We are selling the last Croatian bank in which we could potentially influence, in which we could put Croatian money, Croatian state money and create interest policy and not just whine about what these bankers are like, nasty thieves, but create interest policy. But we know what to do. So we're doing the opposite. Instead of scaring the craftsmen with VAT by invoice and not by charge as they now have, why don't we charge taxes to, say, the people who sell oil companies for a hundred and I don't know something million euros and don't pay a penny tax on that transaction. A few years ago, we were horrified that the same successful entrepreneur of the Croatian shipowners had not paid for two billion kunas, we were deposed and the thing had passed away. We know what to do. We need to know what we want, and we thought this government knew what it wanted, that it had a strategy, that it had a vision, that it had a plan. Turns out we were wrong.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38780	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Shucker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38781	Yes, my colleague Vuljanic, when you look at the assessment of the state of this material, then there is a very interesting sentence, kept by positive financial results of employment. You see most of these craftsmen and small entrepreneurs who kept positive financial results and the work of employment sold their assets, pulled money out of socks, maintained production and maintained their crafts. And we passed a law last week that suggests that those who haven't acted in this way write off interest and allow them to collect taxes in a certain way. So those who have been selling what they have to maintain what they have, we will not help them, and those who have not paid taxes and have acquired property, surely they have this property today, we forgive interest. And that's something that's different from thinking and thinking. And we can charge each other as much as we want. He wears his good and bad side all the time. In 2011, we had 2 quarters of positive economic growth, so some measures gave some results although some ministers were crucified as Jesus Christi but some measures were given. And today the ministers are on the pedestal, but the measures are catastrophic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38782	Thank you. For his word, he appeared on behalf of Deputy Minister Drazen Pross. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38783	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Respect for the ladies and gentlemen of the MPs. Thank you very much for these discussions. Here are a few words and a few answers first of all to the esteemed representative, Mr Grubisic, to make it clear again. So in this addition of BIRCO, HAMAG INVEST has nothing to do with any new increase in funding from the state budget. We're talking about BICRO, which acts so far within the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports and HAMAG INVEST, which is part of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts in some way. By attaching this, there will be no new number of employees or any new costs, new funds. The central information system of incentives, therefore, is something that has definitely not existed in Croatia so far, and this represents the introduction of order. When we talk about the incentive system, therefore, only in the period from 2004 to 2011 when we talk about grants incentives, about 67 billion kuna was spent in that part. Most of it went to agriculture and shipbuilding, something to transport infrastructure regarding the small economy, less than a billion kuna through the system, a direct boost went. That's a fact. What we want today, we want to see through this system exactly where it is, when, to whom the funds are distributed. Mr. Drinker was also an esteemed representative of the drinker talking about being shared with a hat and a hand. Yes, it was very divided by cap and fist, which is why last year we introduced order into the Small Economy Development Promotion Programme and introduced criteria for granting support and entrepreneurship zones because it was precisely these divisions by grandmothers and uncles in the past period that were very much. When we talk about consultants, it's also not about any new consultants. Of course, regional development agencies are the centre and central area as far as they are concerned, and those stop service centres are established, so that first point, is the key point that investors appear. So there's no talk here about any new consultants, there's only talk about that part of the consultants that have been certified as consultants in the past periods and in the context of BICRO and the former HAMAG. So there's nothing new in that part. In particular, measures to encourage the development of a small economy through an entrepreneurial impulse that is around EUR 100 million this year and which is highly focused on all segments of micro-entrepreneurship which is also aimed at starting ups on entrepreneurs who live today and are very hard to do and remain on this market but also part of the funds is targeted and there is a good balance because part of the funds is focused on new companies on new start-ups. Part of innovative entrepreneurship and creative industries are also encouraged. And that was the idea of this accession of BICRO where the main emphasis on the innovative entrepreneurship of the accession of BICRO was HAMAG INVEST. Just maybe the answer to the importance and importance of the small economy and how important investment in the small economy is and of course we are not euphoric because of this result of the increase in these investments in 2012 compared to 2011, we are aware of what is important. More than 50% of Croatia's GDP comes from a small economy segment, more than 60% of exports to EU countries are coming. Also somewhere is almost 2/3 of employees coming from a small economy segment. So every investment in the small economy is important and important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38784	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. We've reported five replicas. The first one was Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38785	Well, esteemed deputy, perhaps the best way to deal with this government and this ministry towards small and medium-sized enterprises is to speak best of the assumed new law on crafts and the opinion of the Chamber of crafts. On the other hand, the entire 16 months of this Croatian government could come to a sense that under one parole we are introducing order, introducing order, introducing order, and from that order and introducing order, there has been an increase in unemployment, an increase in almost all taxes, and perhaps we should start from the most important tax, which is VAT to start the economy of many. Not economic experts, economic analysts, but primarily people who run these small and medium-sized enterprises, citizens themselves are quite clear if you reduce VAT that this will be the biggest measure that can boost the economy. And then there's those famous investments. Full Croatian cranes except for those who pay the Croatian state by moving the collection houses and bringing in an investment that will bury the wood industry of the Republic of Croatia, but it is a shopping centre not of industry. So all these measures and the introduction of order seem to me to be a vivid story out there from Tsar Russia when a priest drew some prosperity in Russia, I think you know that his name was Podokin, and that's what he called Podokin's villages, and we'll obviously have Milanovic's villages here. As for the work of agencies and the establishment of agencies, it is enough to see now at this time the work of the Agency for Agricultural Land which has neither personnel nor space nor all the work of the agency has been transferred to local self-government and all problems transferred to local self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38786	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Shuker. Here's your colleague Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38787	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, Mr. Pross, it's not good to mix pears and apples in these kinds of topics. You said there were 65 billion incentives and subsidies, but it's just not true. You can't put agriculture in this part of it, you can't put highways in this part of it, but even shipbuilding, although shipbuilding has a very good effect on small and medium-sized entrepreneurs because most of them work in shipbuilding sites a lot of jobs, but very interesting that none of them, unlike the shipyard, operate negatively, so they all do positive business, the one who pays and whoever organizes the business is doing the big negative, and that's the country's big pay. So that's what you inherited, and that data exists in the Ministry of Finance. Therefore, no one here is attacking you for anything, we just want to help you and we want to tell you that this act that is normative, technically well-designed does not, unfortunately, solve the problems facing Croatian businessmen at this point and that is the essence of the whole story. Both indicators and from the budget all colleagues know, the macroeconomic indicators are already singing and the birds on the branch in the morning when you wake up they are already singing as slowly as everyone talks about it. So these are facts, and now let's see what this law needs to be built into to change these things and to return to that beautiful spring song in the morning, so that they don't sing to us about the number of unemployed and the fall of GDP.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38788	Thank you. Next line, Djuro Poppie. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38789	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy, so my comment was really on something you've been doing for a whole year and a half, so you're dealing with some kind of administrative condescending of that agency and it's really becoming a mega agency that deals with nothing or anything. The results are obvious from what we read every day, so the collapse of the Croatian economy. And now you're going to, it's true that you're not going to increase the number of people because the 20 people there in BICRO are going to cross over to that agency, that agency is going to re-up, the replacement of HAMAG is going to be doing these innovations or something that BICRO's already been doing, and it's increasingly drowning in one faceless mass. As regards the aid itself for business zones, over 700 million kuna, yes, support for development infrastructure in the entrepreneurship zones and over 700 million kunas of the value of the land allocated by the state, unused land in the weeds and in the navels of the local self-government, and all this is now stopped. In these business areas, however, over 40,000 people were employed at that time. Whether a local self-government was better quality or not, it attracted investors, and the state did everything it needed to do. You now, by party, by similar criteria, we hear similarity criteria, you share it with certain areas of some money. It was never done, at least it wasn't done in my day. And I didn't get my picture taken or paraded, so I mailed the contracts because I wanted it to get there as soon as possible and where those funds were to be used in quality. So you may know or don't know that information, but talking about that some municipality doesn't deserve a state land that's untapped, on which we grow weeds or weeds is irresponsible and you have no right to do so. So you must encourage and give as much as possible to local self-government as possible to develop your capacities...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38790	Thank you. Next replica, Branko Vuksic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38791	Dear Deputy Minister, staffing the Kukuriku coalition began in December 2011 and continues until today. If that authority had been willing to take over and start doing what it had promised then it would have done at least 3 months, within 3 months, and had been fully prepared then it had to come with solutions and solutions immediately implement the work. However, it takes an idea, and it takes a vision that is not available. You said it was a billion kuna of direct incentives, and the effect is gone. The effect is seen by the number of unemployed, the effect is seen by GDP, the effect is seen by the standard of Croatian citizens. Maybe what he didn't deserve was encouraged, and what he didn't deserve was not encouraged. It's the same as if you were to encourage the planting of pineapples in Međimurje, I don't think some of the results would be great. There's an anecdote in "Archipelago Gulag" where they ordered Moscow to sow corn at the same time and then send dispatches from various parts that you know have several time zones, that there's snow up to their knees, that they can't sow. Depeša said so, don't ask because the party knows what she's doing. And they were shining corn in the snow up to their knees or snow two feet long. This seems to me to be sown also in the snow or sown in the sand because if a billion direct incentives effect is not available. Which chokes small entrepreneurs, exactly what we said, they impose that should be abolished.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38792	Thank you. And the last replica, Zeljko Kolar. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38793	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, apparently we have lived for the last 8, 9 years in another country and how well we justify that all the projects that went to local self-government units went exclusively according to the quality of the projects, not to some party resemblance, and not even the ministers or directors of public companies knew who was getting these incentives. And it happened to me as mayor that in the ministry or in the state firm, they wouldn't even accept a request for my project because I wasn't on the good side. And if I had entered the Croatian Waters and it had been written on the board by the name of the municipalities and cities that would receive incentives, and they were all HDZ and HSS, and now we are being taught here. And in the EIB two programme in my county, 92% of the money came to local self-government units where HDZ and HSS were in power again. Maybe we are a little weird, and so weird, they're not even Croatian citizens that we should remember. Because for this elemental accident, no one can prepare the one you left behind. And it's a shame that fellow Shuker left, so let me ask him what were the measurement points that he determined to what extent led to the fact that at a certain point we had a decline in gross national income 6% and what measures were then taken by the government to prevent them. And the fact is, by political lines and similarities, we gave local self-government units money for zones that they didn't use. And then you have in Krapina the mayor of the town of Krapina who got 6 and a half million kuna, in the zone opened 160 jobs and you have the city of Zabok got 2 million kuna and the man opened 1760 jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38794	Thank you. We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HNS club Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38795	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, of course, I will immediately say that we will support these amendments and the additions of the Small Economy Act with the final proposal of the law and, of course, suggest that a text be drawn up immediately so that all those who have to use the funds tomorrow are encouraged to be part of this development participation project, the assistance of the Croatian State as part of the ministry with the help of the HAMAG can read as clearly and more clearly as possible all those opportunities provided by this new law. I would like to point out, on behalf of the HNS Club, of course, a few facts that are clearer and more recent than the existing ones we had in this, in the current law. So what is crucial is that the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts will establish a central small economy information system as a comprehensive and comprehensive system for the implementation and monitoring of measures to promote small economy development and to assess economic impacts at national and regional level. So, we here not only will the Government in the Croatian Parliament receive reports on the effects of the measures implemented, and with these amendments and additions of the law it is ensured that finally in the Croatian state and on matters of small and medium entrepreneurship we have an absolute record of the public records of all those involved in the programme that this law defines. And this is the only and correct way not only for the sake of entering the EU, but for the sake of the public, because of all these discussions that led to who gave to whom, and without certain criteria, the only correct way for the whole public, not only the politics, to know who got who and what we benefited all together, and especially those entrepreneurs who got the funds. And that's why this law is not only good, but necessary and so that this complete record can be established as soon as possible. Because after that, it will be difficult to discuss who he is to whom he has given because this government is at the beginning and always says we have a responsibility, we have determination, but we also have transparency. Something that has not been mentioned in the previous discussions, and I believe on behalf of the HNS Club that is extremely important, is that these amendments and additions to the laws other than the establishment of risk capital, venture capital funds, which was defined in the first law of 2002 by the establishment and management of venture capital funds and other funds. That means the government uses someone to mention some new instruments. Yes, the Croatian Government uses all instruments that exist and in the system in particular the EU to assist and develop the economy, all in line with those aids, i.e. the competencies carried out by the European Commission so that the funds are not distributed non-transparently, i.e. that the competition system is not compromised. Therefore, funds such as Venture Investment Funds, i.e. venture funds of open investment capital are funds that are also being considered in the Ministry of Small and Medium crafts of the Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts with HBOR, with HAMAG that with the European Investment Fund, with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and with other interested investors provide funds for small and medium-sized enterprises, especially those that have, who want to go to high technology, have knowledge and have no core capital, have no opportunity in starting up companies to move up with bank loans to provide them with development, to ensure employment, to ensure progress. These are the instruments this government is considering. These are the instruments the Government is working on for preparatory meetings and arrangements, and this legislative framework allows it to be implemented tomorrow. And all this talk about this, the success and failure of the government when we talk about a 3951 company that is in a pre-departure settlement in a process that needs to be completed very quickly, which should ensure the continuity of these large companies that the small and medium-sized enterprises rely on is something that the government is working on intensively. Overnight, we know that, I can't solve the accumulated problems. And those big investments that you had in 2011 out of a billion and a half, it's only half a billion real investments and the whole billion are essentially turning accounting for those loans that in banks, which in other companies by the owners into capital, which, through the books and statistics of the State Statistics Office, are shown as investment in capital, and in fact these are assets that have been invested and spent through the investment of the owner. And of course what is crucial and important is that we finally turn to investments that are related and support for research, development and application of innovation and that is what the Government will do, this government will absolutely support. And as I said in the introduction, the efficiency and transparency of the public is irrefutable and it will be available to everyone so that it will no longer be as you used to do, former authorities, divided by grandmothers and uncles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38796	Thank you, too. We have reports of replicas. The first one was Marin Jurjevic. Here you go, colleague Jurjevic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38797	Thank you. My colleague Gjurkovic, you have well said that this law is necessary to bring an end to the story of who gave whom without criteria. We've heard here so far, especially through replicas, so much so as to say treasure to a country that has this kind of mind. And I wonder where that mind was when those who are now spilling it were in power? If we imagine Croatia as a 100m runner, they cut off her leg, and now they're yelling at your coach, and you're not getting to the goal. So come on, people, a lot of hypocrisy, a lot of stories about it, almost 20 years you've been in power, that in a year and a half, everything you've done well, and I don't see it well, you wouldn't see it with some kind of strongest binocular. We have an opposition that will never come to power anyway, which promises constant golden valleys, fields of grain, a sunny future full of songs, joy and light, and will surely carry water, dig, try, have blisters on anyone's hands.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38798	Thank you. Answer, Srdjan Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38799	Yes, a respected colleague, what this coalition, this government and these ministries are intensively and wanting and seeking, seeking citizens, we are also looking for, and therefore we have been given the trust for change, for responsibility and efficiency. It is a strange word of efficiency, an efficiency that has not been present so far in political expression and realisation by the executive authority. And therefore I believe that our citizens will understand very well the way we do, and the results of the work must come unfortunately cannot go faster because what we inherited is clearly too deep for everyone to easily bridge.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38800	Thank you. Next replica, Nikola Vuljanic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38801	Thank you. It's just hard to believe the level of fatazmagorism of the discussion I hear here who cut off everything's legs, who didn't do anything today, who has the wrong settings. I can't believe it's actually the essence of a discussion that's supposed to be held in this House. But this kind of bill encourages such a discussion. A fellow Gjurkovic said you would establish a system of monitoring measures. Great, we'll follow the measures nicely, but we don't have any measures. The tracking system of who or what? You said this was the only right way because it would be transparent. Well, the law should then be called anti-corruption law in small entrepreneurship. The only right way would be if things worked and things didn't work out. This infertile bickering doesn't lead to anything. You said the government used all the instruments it had and didn't have. He may be using them, but none of these instruments are included in the current and none of these instruments produce results. That's what we're expected to do. That's why we're out in the way we are, that's why they spit on the media, that's why we get weird texts, because things don't work. Of course it's the wrong side and the left side, of course it's the wrong side and the right side, but things don't work. We've been here all morning dealing with ephemerals whether two agencies are going to connect and what's going to happen here. Nothing's gonna happen.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38802	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Gjurkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38803	My dear colleague, I haven't really discussed any leg cutting, not even such things, I have really talked and talked about the effectiveness and efficiency that this law adopts, and I think that on your part should give some support, it just indicates that so far things haven't worked out, that they haven't been quality-recorded and that this whole process that this law also ensures we will have the opportunity to look at everything and that you and especially the citizens have a clear way of spending and the resources that the state invests in encouraging the economy. The criteria exist, the criteria will be the same public. It clearly states here that the competition will not only be in the National Journal, but also published in public newspapers, making it even more accessible to those who want and intend to use funds for investment and employment. If something didn't work, I guess it's clear to everyone, whether it works today, it should also be clear that it works and that everything will work better and better. As for investment, you have 2 billion and 400 million in tourism at the moment, investment in investment precisely because of a 10% reduction in VAT, and is preparing about 500 million euros in investment through the Investment and Competitiveness Agency. The Agency for Investments and Competitiveness covers large investments, while HAMAG and the Ministry of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs. So we have a system that can meet the needs of time.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38804	Thank you. Next replica, Josip Boric. Here's my colleague, Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38805	Thank you very much. Dear fellow Đurkovic, you said responsibility and efficiency, if it were one of your own and indeed your own, a model of behavior by looking at efficiency would surely be responsible for either resigning as a government or at least some ministers in your portfolios. Because if the responsibility or effectiveness is that something is wrong with 300 thousand unemployed, and it's great and it's good with 370 or if I don't know the debt or indifference bigger or smaller, then it's a great efficiency compared to a time from a year and a half ago. That's where you'd be, I say a lot of arguing. However, what we do well during this government is to establish these agencies and discuss them in the Croatian Parliament. On Wednesday, the Agency for the Research of Air, Maritime and Railway Accidents, and then Croatia's Air Traffic Control, on Thursday, the Agency for Investments and Competitiveness, yesterday, on Tuesday, the Agriculture Payment Agency, today Croatia's Small Economy Agency. Every day we organize the structure of certain agencies, each day we discuss who will probably sit there, how many of these boards will be or how many people will be in these boards, and about entrepreneurs like this in breaks. Prior to that, ministers are well offended, and now that you are talking about tourism, today the request of the Croatian Employers' Association does not introduce a tax on real estate will be taken from us from 2 to 5% of our incomes, i.e. You will increase our costs by introducing that tax. However, you stubbornly persist in this relationship with employers where on the one hand they warn, and on the other hand you implement measures that make them ineffective and then we wonder what is happening in the Croatian economy. And then you throw out some billions we'll probably dream of, and the vice-president himself in charge of the economy says recovery only in 2015. We started to recover in 2013 so nothing, in 2014 we skipped probably no effects of this policy, only in 2015 before the election. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38806	Thank you. And we have an answer, colleague Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38807	Dear colleague, there are obvious facts to be repeated. If you have 70,000 so-called. employees of companies who are a year in a blockade or more, then it is quite clear that they are not employed but that they are only registered to employees and killed are unemployed. And that's why, at this point in time, it's no wonder that most of these workers and workers ended up at the employment office. As far as agencies were concerned, the agencies had existed before, so it is strange that in 2010 you abolished the Investment Encouraging Agency which was then, and today was, and today is one of the key agencies that ensures the possibility and quality of ensuring that foreign and domestic investors break the red tape we have within Croatia and ensure the conditions of legislative implementation of the framework of all the necessary documents necessary for the implementation of the investment. As for the effectiveness of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, you will see, it is quite clear in the light of the inherited, and you yourself are aware of what you have left for us that time will very quickly show that through all the legislative frameworks, the operations and agencies that are really working we will have an unsustainable and stable Croatia, but we will have with the growth of gross products and stable finances that we have, and a stable state of growth that will certainly be among the better in Europe.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38808	Thank you. And the last replica of Ivan Shuker. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38809	Comrade Gjurkovic, it is not good to play with statistics and methodologies. Therefore, investments under the same methodology and by the same rules in statistics were measured before 3.4 and as last year. To talk about something like this, and to ask why it was not last year, because such investments are being made all these years. So it's not good to play with statistics to cover those that are covered impossible. And when we talk about responsibility and efficiency, perhaps the best example of the responsibility and effectiveness of this government is the appointment of public companies that should be the bearer of economic development. So, every party took its own athar, its own firm and inside... And no matter what the results are, because look, PLINACRO is at the time of the company's biggest investment, so the investments in the pipeline from Fažana to Karlovac, and then down to Dalmatia have one member of the administration. [[You don't understand a word.]] Today, Plinarro, when these investments have reduced practically to a minimum, has five board members. It's probably responsibility and efficiency. We can pick up as much as we want. But the best thing is when someone's smart and doesn't pay for other people's mistakes, they're great and they're capable. And your biggest problem is that on the delusions you've been doing your plan 21 and when it turns out that everything you've been saying that most of it isn't true. You've gone down with your 21 plan.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38810	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38811	Which we haven't given up on Plan 21. We're only implementing plan 21 but in accordance with the conditions and conditions found. All members of the management not only of Plinar but of all public companies are responsible to the Government of the Republic of Croatia for the implementation of programmes, development and work of companies and they will also respond with their efficiency and efficiency and as regards Plinar as opposed to you, they have signed a South Stream agreement with Gastro, which in any case provides for one independence in the future of gas supply which you were not able to do.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38812	Thank you. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mile Horvat. Please, colleague Shuker. On behalf of the SDSS Club, Mile Horvat. He's gone. He's losing his right to debate. We're moving on to an individual debate. Boris Blazekovic first picked up. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38813	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In this very law, he spoke on behalf of his colleague Srdjan Gjurkovic's club and I fully support his debate. And I will begin my debate by reading the data we have already heard but it is important to repeat them for the sake of the truth but in this case primarily because of the development of consciousness, the importance and necessity of small entrepreneurship. The small economy includes crafts, cooperatives, peaceful small medium-sized companies, which share a large number of common features. What total or by which is different from other economic operators. The small economy accounts for 99.5% of the total economic system of the Republic of Croatia's share of small entities in GDP is 33-33.8, averages around 19% overall over 50%. According to the number of small economies in 2012, it accounts for a total of 170 thousand 356 entities. In total there are 71 thousand 243 micro-entities, 11 thousand 533 small entities, 1299 medium-sized entities, 1046 cooperatives, 4 thousand 128 crafts that operate as traders of individuals. According to the craft register, 85 thousand 235 crafts were registered. Their stake in the total number of subjects is 47.6%. Business results in the first 9 months of 2012 according to the criteria of size of entrepreneurs show that small entrepreneurs achieved an increase in total revenues of 1.5% of IUs of 9.3%, employment 2.1%, investment 3.2% compared to the same period in 2011. It is important to note that this part of the economy has kept a positive financial result in both employment and employment in recent years. That's the data I quoted, official data. This data suggests that small private entrepreneurship is the most important, toughest, most pro-pulsory part of the Croatian economy and that only confirms already stated claims that the country is a bad economy in principle. This means that the state should not and should not deal with the economy. The State is here to establish a level playing field and to particularly monitor and monitor equal competition and financial flows. The Small Economy Agency HAMAG is associated with this proposal for a law with the BiCRO Employment Agency. This expanded and capacitated agency should be the main incubator of the development of small entrepreneurship in Croatia in accordance with EU rules. In addition to the implementation of the government's economic policy, HAMAG BICRO would receive concrete tasks in Articles 6 and 13 which it proposes to encourage, and help to realise various business projects and programmes of Croatian entrepreneurs primarily in Croatia and abroad. HAMAG BICRO must be an incentivator of competitions in all areas of activities it deals with or benefits from incentivising the small economy of HAMAG BICRO must fully objectively and without subjective priorities represent, promote and assist all entrepreneurs who qualify for it. HAMAG BICRO is focused exclusively on private entrepreneurship. Small and central entrepreneurship is the intrinsic need of each and especially so-called entrepreneurship. small states and for many reasons. Because of the development of the economy in general, because of the good feeling that citizens and citizens live in a country where all personal entrepreneurial potentials can be realized. For the release of unsustainable creative potentials, entrepreneurs and all those who follow entrepreneurship but ultimately for the release of the creative potential of the entire society. In a small number of citizens of the state as a true regulatory law and sense of justice, there must be incentives and development of small entrepreneurship. It is hard for a resident or a resident to hold on less, and it can feel good if he is conscious that they are all working for a few large entrepreneurs. The state economy is a problem. The state has proven to be a bad businessman. The state economy except that the unsanitary polygon for theft and corruption is particularly fertile in the adoption of the wrongs. political decisions to the economy, resulting regularly in disaster. Entrepreneurship, economy, economy by its nature requires exclusively income decisions. As soon as political involvement starts, the seven-headed spiral of non-profitability and lasting some times inconceivable losses and then understandably pays citizens and citizens often in incredible amounts of money. And now allow me a little dyspression, but I think someone finally has to talk about it. In fact, it is practically constantly incorrect populist claims coming from the Club of Representatives of the Labour Party. Permanently and repeatedly, representatives of Croatian Labourists provide incorrect information on private or state-owned state-owned or private entrepreneurship in the most developed countries of Europe, as well as on certain companies and banks of the countries of Europe. So laborers are constantly making claims that the wrong point is that state governance of the economy is ineffective and ineffective. If the state entrepreneurship and state governance of the economy and economic operators had failed, it was disastrously ineffective and that the direct cause of corruption and of the Empirical but would have been said to have been demonstrated, and the idea and doctrine of state entrepreneurship and the state economy collapsed in the dust at the end of the 1980s and early 1990s. Regardless of all the facts, Croatian Labourists are constantly and persistently providing false information by demagogic advocacy to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. Like what? Labourists keep mentioning it as a mantra of Sweden, Finland, Deutsche Telekom, Deutsche Bank. So here are the facts that are very simple to check by clicking the mouse on the Internet. Sweden is one of the most developed countries in the world, Sweden is a fully capitalist economy managed by private entrepreneurship. Finland became a highly developed country after 70 years when it began to strongly encourage private entrepreneurship and education. The market-based private economy is the backbone of Finland's development. Among other Finnish forests that are one of the most significant natural treasures in 60% is private property. Deutsche Telekom, in Deutsche Telekom, the German state participates with 14.98% of the ownership remained on the stock market, i.e. privately owned. Deutsche Banke is simply a private bank. So much for the floscules, so much for the constant and daily misrepresentation of facts, so much for populism. And continue my debate about entrepreneurship. Clearly, for the right entrepreneurial activity, a regulated rule of law is needed, it is clear that successful entrepreneurship is an important orderly and positive environment, the role of the state in the incentive and development of small entrepreneurship is dry. The state is necessary in regulating fair market relations and is necessary in the control of fair competition. There the role of the state is irreplaceable and it is obliged to find all possible instruments to meet and enable its most important roles in the economy for all business entities to match equally, control the same match and establish an effective legal state and system. I already said the Italian proverb once... /The speaker speaks Italian./... A lot of kids do one big one. It is I am convinced of an excellent model for Croatia as well. HAMAG-BICRO must be connected, teamed and organised by 1 July 2014 in order to be the main information point to provide information to entrepreneurs regarding all changes, advantages and obstacles related to the development of small entrepreneurship in Croatia as members of the EU. That is exactly what this law is harmonising, so little entrepreneurship of the European Croatia needs to be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38814	We've reported several replicas and a breach of the Rules of Procedure. My colleague Vuksic, here's a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38815	Injured Rules of Procedure, Article 216 of the Rules of Procedure, the MP is given a warning if he is holding his speech on the subject under discussion. The gentleman discussed Croatian Labourists, did not discuss the subject. You warned me several times that I was away from the topic when I was talking about the subject in a broader context. This was, it wasn't an attack because when it's negative about us it's absolutely certain that it's a commendation for us. But let me just say you didn't react to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38816	Thank you very much. When I didn't react, be assured that it would have been necessary. Namely, in the context of the debate on the subject, Mr Blažeković has distanced himself so much as only some of your accentes have been mentioned in the way you see certain laws. And if we're going to remind a fellow member of Blažekovic about how much it took, I'm not going to name them, and you're seeing as soon as you've called for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, I think over 90% of your discussions should remind you to stick to the topic of the agenda. Unless you are satisfied with the response to the infringement of the Rules of Procedure, you do not have the possibility of a Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure. Are you announcing an objection? You're announcing, okay. Thank you. I have to make a note. Okay, we've got replicas. Nikola Vuljanić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38817	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Blažekovic, with nothing caused by a speech that I don't know who wrote it, miswritten it, crashed on the laborists and what the laborists claim. Labourists really don't think the state is a bad master. We think the thief state is a bad master, a thieving state led by thieves, organized by thieves, and robbed by thieves. We also think that the party state is a bad master because it operates on the principle of similarity, on the principle of those who are believed, and not on the principle of those who know. Where does the idea that the state is a bad master and that it can't have anything? He's leading the sale of everything. And how is it sold out in that country? Well, I guess it's ours. We're not going to give those other guys away. We're going to sell ours on, say, favourable terms. That's the recipe we tried. The liberal capitalism as much as Mr Blazekovic defends in Europe has resulted in a crisis, unemployment, and with our armies in containers. And you can bet it's fair, you can bet it's in line with the contemporary efforts of the world society, but it's a pigsty because people are in containers. Hey, that's the result of this logic. Well, now that it's going on, it won't take long.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38818	Thank you. We have an answer, Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38819	Thank you very much. Liberal capitalism has developed the world, the modern Western world continues to rest the whole world in a liberal capitalist economy. And I looked back, and I thought someone had to say it, and for over a year, we've been listening to the wrong data. Labourists deceive the public, the public in this assembly are told completely wrong data to gather, I can't believe that out of ignorance, it's completely knowingly wrong data about certain countries and certain companies, which is easily verifiable. And I was provoked by the fact that these data were later transmitted by one to the Committee on Tourism when the Tourist Strategy of the Republic of Croatia was presented by a colleague from the SDP and reiterated that same same exact claim by one head of a union organisation on HRT, which is the word for example. Deutsche Telekom. A stock structure where Labourists constantly claim it's owned by a German state, which is incorrect. The German state has 14.96% and ownership of the Republic of Croatia, this German 68.1% is on the stock market and that... and 17.2% is owned by a single banking group. One of the data only, and there's still no telling how many.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38820	Thank you. Next replica Branko Vuksic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38821	Mr. Blazekovic, if anyone cheats on the public and doesn't tell the truth, it's you. After the wealth of state in the hands of the state precedes the first Sweden, Finland, Norway, Iceland, Croatia is the fifth. There's official data. First of all, you are known to read other people's speeches and not speak what is true. The second thing, you've propagated that state entrepreneurship will rebirth Croatian economy. Your vice president, who you seem to have given up this second, your vice president said that state firms are going to give birth to Croatia, and now you've left it all at once. You're changing your mind like pants. Then, we never claimed that Deutsche Telekom was majority-owned, find one when we said it was mostly owned, we said that Deutsche Telekom was also the same in state co-ownership, and that's the lie you need to prove, the yielding untruth you need to support something. Everything you said here, Chicago school advocates HNS more than Friedman. At the time of the greatest crisis called upon, the intervention of the state. The auto-moto industry in the U.S. that she called for, state intervention. Whom your lovely banks called upon when the crisis occurred and when the rich destroyed the banks, whom she called upon, the states. Who took care of it, citizens with their money. What you're propagating is embarrassing, you're in government, left-wing government, you're defending the strongest capitalism, you're saying that the state is a bad master, your ministers are bad, your managers are bad. You put him in charge of HEP the man who destroyed the chair factory, and now he's the director of HEP, and you know what they say in HEP, what you do with him, we just keep him from getting electrocuted. You've got heads of state like that, and you'll be giving lessons.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38822	Thank you. We have an answer, Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38823	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. You're a very upset colleague. You don't have to get so upset. ... Under number one, you went to a personal level with complete ignorance. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] No one I've ever read has ever written to me anyone but me, ever. Find one and we'll talk. You went to a very personal level very rudely and very rudely and with ignorance. Never anyone. The truth is, I may be wrong, but every time I write my discussions for a reason because I feel a great responsibility against those I represent, and these are citizens of the Republic of Croatia. I'm getting ready, sometimes better, sometimes worse. A colleague of Vuljanić said it was a bad speech,... a bad speech. But yesterday, you brought out the completely wrong data on the first item of the agenda. I will find you if you need not one time where you said Deutsche Telekom is owned by a German state and that it is possible to manage successfully a large multinational company owned by the state. Those are your words, you stand for it most. And you just take the Internet and click on the Internet and you'll come by, say, about the Swedish state, not to talk about others, so the economy says. In Sweden, an export-oriented market economy has been developed with a modern product distribution system, excellently developed communications and educational labour. Sweden's industry is mostly privately owned and state-owned enterprises are of negligible importance. You deceive the public, that's what you do and you'd like to run this country, these cities and these municipalities.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38824	Thank you. Next replica Josip Boric. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38825	Thank you very much. Mr. Blazekovic, this must have been your deal with them, so I experienced it and it's legitimate. The fact is that your rating obviously isn't good, that you fell far below the Labourist and that you should take advantage of that chance so you can attack. That's right. He once told the president to elect the so-called president. The election campaign lasts every day. But now about Sweden. You said you needed to click. I click with the mouse and they say like this: In Sweden there is a standard of living, i.e. The Swedish state is concerned that what Swedish citizens, Swedishs and Swedish women receive corresponds to or covers the cost of their lives. They are extremely concerned about it, but something else has happened here in the past year and a half even though there have been problems before. But people can no longer make as much money as the state asks them to pay as much as they can to direct, cost of housing, heating, gas, energy, gas, etc. in relation to what they receive, and that is, every day and every decision of the Government, less and less, your government, where the CNS is leading one of the main, key roles. That's the problem with us. And because of that, maybe we shouldn't have this story about state administration or how you told the state entrepreneurship to talk, because it was your vice president who went to advocate strong state interventionism, i.e. The construction of a number of infrastructure projects through public enterprises is that it will somehow save this country. None of it, however. Your directors are leaving, some will be removed very soon because they are extremely unsuccessful, but they are not Labourists.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38826	Thank you. We have an answer, Boris Blazekovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38827	It was too hard to judge that it was my fight with them. Not mine, it's my reckoning with truth or false, not my reckoning with them. I think yesterday, I listened to those claims that were incorrect, so it once again moved me to finally see that no one would, so then I took the right to react to the fact that the lies were publicly said to be false. As for the Swedish share in public spending, it is one of the largest in the world. They have the biggest public state, but it's something completely different. I think we understand that, rather than the economy. They have the highest taxes for that. Now they too suffer because of these large taxes, and they are currently reducing the many taxes they have given to have that quality, standards, that quality of the public state and public consumption. And I'm convinced that this government is really working, and it's a terrible problem to take care of the state. It has been said that it is much harder than we thought, and I am convinced that we are making good regulations, good laws, and that we are allowing entrepreneurs to show themselves in the near future all these results of the work of this government that you trust is not the simplest thing I've ever seen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38828	Thank you, too. Next replica, Đuro Popiè. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38829	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, I have to agree with you in the part where you talked about a free market economy. So there's no dilemma, history hasn't produced any more successful economic model in which people would live better, and that's a fact. And with that, of course, all those who claim that some other models and state socialism and socialist self-government and even state capitalism were more successful. It's not. But there is something else. Which is why you do not speak so well to your coalition partners especially one minister who has done everything in a year and a half to make life miserable for this Croatian private entrepreneur, and that is obvious what happened. So, people are closing their business activities, production, economic downturn we've already said all of this, all of this is clear and well known and he continues to stegmatize Croatian businessmen. And today we heard on the radio where Minister Linic reiterated that the thesis that this is all done towards the Croatian economy, but he does not understand it and that something finally starts and does it once. And, of course, he's accusing him of only being what the Croatian entrepreneur wants, which is that he doesn't pay taxes. So that's the first thing that's notorious nonsense. The second thing that you did of course didn't happen in history either. In fact, taxes were paid in amount or over 96, 97% and before, and nothing new had happened. Of course, only worse, harder and more impossible business in the Republic of Croatia happened to this Croatian private entrepreneur.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38830	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38831	Thank you. I'd just like to say that it's safe and fact that in the great arrangement that's been going on today, and it's going to be happening for a while there's a very, very long time, I'm going to say a lot of sacrifices. And it has been announced, announced, that it will continue to grow until the country is fully cleaned up conditionally, that there will also be new layoffs, that there will be an increase in the number of unemployed but all that is done is prepare for the long-term development of the Republic of Croatia. Not for the short term, not for overnight, not for the current effects, but for the long-term development on healthy foundations, and I am convinced that thanks, especially because of Croatia's accession to the EU, that these opportunities, and perspectives, the positive perspectives of Croatia are opening up even more.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38832	Thank you. And the last replica of Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38833	Here's Honorable colleague Blažekovic, I think you should return to Croatia this deal with them or with you as announced by the distinguished representative Seks that he will deal with himself in his memoirs. And I don't think we should discuss the situation here in Sweden, the situation in Germany. Maybe we should look up to how they solve these problems, that standard of life that has not only in Scandinavian countries but even a whole package of laws I would say and rewrite them, not translate them in our way. And I can agree with you that the state is a bad master, but not in a way that the state sells and what little wealth there is left. The bad state is a centralised state, and Croatia is an extremely centralised state. Sometimes many citizens wonder, so I would even compare it to Bach's absoluteism. Because here the Croatian Parliament is exclusively the decoration of democracy, here there is a party machine that will vote any law no matter where its results lead nothing because the results achieved by this government in the short or long term we today have 370,000 unemployed. The number of unemployed has increased, industrial production has fallen, GDP has fallen, and we are talking about healing and major cleaning and the results are catastrophic and need to change policy and change direction.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38834	Thank you. Replication response, Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38835	Thank you very much. The current Kukuriku coalition in power won a 4-year term and should achieve the results presented to the citizens before and during the pre-election campaign during that 4-year period. It is Plan 21 that implements in a way that is implemented. I would just say two, in my opinion a very important claim, one is that the definition of the state is terribly simple and politics as such, which is that it serves exclusively and there is no other reason than to make life easier, better, better and happier for its citizens. Neither state nor politics have any other purpose. But running the country, it's a very complex process. A terribly complex process that requires an extremely high amount of energy, perfect honesty, a terrible amount of knowledge and certain positives, certain desires, certain energy, the drive for something to seem public. Without it, politics and states can't function on me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38836	Thank you. We're moving on to an individual debate. Ante Babic. Here's your colleague, Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38837	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The proposer, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Croatia, predicting the consequences of the adoption of this law: the establishment of a new small economy information system as a complete and comprehensive system for the implementation and monitoring of measures and instruments for the promotion of small economy development will be envisaged, the activity of HAMAG investment will be expanded in such a way as to include the possibility of providing so far-reaching and innovative instruments of support for the development of entrepreneurship and crafts provided for in EU strategic documents on structural instruments, which will be able to finance from the expected issuing financial envelopes for the period from 2014 to 2020 and, accordingly, to amend the name of the Agency, to extend the composition of the Management Board and to determine the manner of payment of the Agency's management. A way of determining the salaries of the president, vice-president and members of the administrative agency will be determined, in such a way that the salary will be determined by a specific decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the salary will not be higher than that of the deputy minister. By 1 July 2014, I suppose this is the Schriefler to be written by 1 July 2013, a special innovation agency of the Republic of Croatia will be appointed to the Croatian Small Economy, Innovation and Investment Agency, which will be renamed by the Croatian Agency for Small Economy, Innovation and Investments on 1 July 2014. It is also stated, and we have heard about this today, that the implementation of this law will not require additional funding. However, when the articles of this law are carefully read, it is only certain that the implementation of this law will cause additional costs and contribute to additional employment but not in small and medium-sized enterprises but in the agency. According to this proposal, the law provides for an increase in board members from 13 to 15 members, and instead of 3.4 members of the Agency's administration, which will determine the salaries of the Government and which must not be more than the Deputy Minister's salary. And for the president, for the vice president and two members of the agency's administration. It also provides for the possibility of setting up a branch of the Agency. There's even more room for hiring new similar personnel. This law, as appears to have become the usual practice of this Government by amending certain laws establishing certain agencies, confers power on the Government to determine by its decisions the salaries to both directors and members of the Agency's administration. At the beginning of this year, if you remember, the government proposed, and the parliamentary majority voted to amend the Law on the Rights and Obligations of State Officials, which increased the number of state officials and established their salaries. Among others in the round of state officials were the Director and Deputy Director of the Central Finance and Negotiation Agency, and also the State officials became Deputys and Assistant Directors of the Croatian Employment Service, Director of the Central Insurance Register, Chairman of National Minority Council. In view of the fact that the expansion of the circle of state officials, those persons were hit by a negative echo in the public, the Government used changes to this law as well as other laws by the cunning of the mind, and now the directors of individual agencies are not formally involved in the circle of government officials, but their decisions lay down their rights in the rank of state officials, all with the aim and intention to conceal from the public such an entirely inappropriate way of increasing the number of state officials and the amount of their salaries. Therefore, the implementation of this law will need to provide for additional financial resources, which unfortunately will not end up for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises, but will be used to encourage the employment of verified party counterparts and improve their standards. At the same time as the minister was involved in the drafting of this law at the cabinet session, a proposal for a Value Added Law was established to introduce a value added tax for craftsmen according to the invoiced rather than charged realisation. If the Government, i.e. the Ministry of crafts and small entrepreneurship really wanted to introduce, in the current economic circumstances, a provision that not only craftsmen but all small entrepreneurs and who make an annual income of 2.5 or 3 million kuna pay VAT according to paid realisation, it would be a real and concrete measure to help me believe in craftsmen and small entrepreneurs what they actually wish for. In addition, income tax should be reduced to craftsmen and small entrepreneurs, i.e. to what he also spoke about by fellow Milosevic, because we must not lose sight of the fact that craftsmen are subject to existing tax rules to a higher tax burden on income than entrepreneurs or companies with limited liability are burdened with profit tax. You understand that. In addition, craftsmen, unlike other entrepreneurs, who carry out their business activities through a limited liability company for all their obligations, correspond to their entire assets. Which puts them in a completely unequal position compared to other entrepreneurs. These measures, if you were to implement them, I am convinced they would act encouragingly in this situation, in this economic situation to the survival and development of craftsmanship and certainly small entrepreneurship, for you to think. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38838	Thank you, too. We have two replicas on your exhibit. First Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38839	Here's my colleague, I'm sorry that I won't be able to use how here's the government needs knowledge, courage, ability, energy, how this government conduct of Plan 21, we just don't know what part it's doing anymore, but there's no esteemed colleague, no economic development unless we cut certain taxes that directly affect the economy, affect consumption, and represent ultimately one big weight around the neck or noose around that same economy, it's VAT. And let's go a little bit here to the Federal Republic of Germany we see that regardless of how neoliberal it was a concept or a social democratic concept, but obviously in Germany there is a social democratic concept, and in us there is a neoliberal concept. But it's neither Ronald Reagan nor Margaret Thatcher's time when such a concept could raise the economy, there's reduced VAT and increased consumption and there's been a development of the economy. We here help the economy especially in state-owned companies and everywhere where the government or the ruling Kukuriku coalition has its paws, the only thing that helps and reduces the number of unemployed to put political counterparts exclusively in the Governing Councils, put party personnel in the position of the director, and distribute it by certain ministries. So, this ministry is HNS and it's just our people, and then it doesn't have to send e-mails anymore, where they're going to write that they're members of the HNS, if that's what they know, there you from the SDP can't, and that's how it is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38840	Thank you. Thank you very much. At least I don't know what a replica was, will you know how to answer? You will. Here's an answer to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38841	Well, you said it well, but I actually realized what my colleague Vinkovic was trying to say. We talked about it dozens of times in this Croatian Assembly. In fact, for the development of entrepreneurship, otherwise we need new investments to develop, it's hard to reach them, and today we've heard about how many have occurred in the first quarter of this year. And in fact, how to invest in that country where you have one tax press, where taxes are retroactively charged and what kind of picture is sent to those who should invest in this country. And that's actually the brakes of small economy development, is when Finance Minister Linic talks about additional tax introductions because this so far has not turned out to be effective, then it tells you that actually the introduction of new taxes will be even less investment and far more unemployed in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38842	Thank you. And the last replica Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38843	Thank you very much. A colleague of Babić and you noticed as I did in my club presentation that it was actually about increasing the number of officials, government officials in agencies or agencies and hiring by party membership, to say specifically to party membership, is by raising salaries. But in my speech, I then said that it is, requiring an increase in the state budget. Here's what you noticed. But I got an answer from the deputy minister that that's not the case. I don't really know what it's really into then, it makes it a lapus... Not a lapus linguae, but something else on a Latin dish. [[/The speaker doesn't understand.]] Further well noticed that someone here was talking about righteousness as well. Indeed, it would be fair for the government's decision to refer to small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, to pay VAT according to invoices, to excuse the paid realisation and not to the invoices, and until unfortunately there is no progress, regardless of all the measures that are being said here, there will be no progress. So when we talk about invoices, then we know what liquidity is in the state, and what is still non-discipline financial, and that's why realisation and taxes are charged on VAT, on the paid realisation would be what's fair, what was said here by a former colleague from the HNS Club, I don't know who else Gjurkovic about justice, right? So what's fair about it? According to the bill, or according to the paid realisation, what were you talking about?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38844	Thank you. We have an answer, Comrade Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38845	Well, I agree with you, Mr. Grubisic, in fact, and it seemed strange to me, too, that boldness, I would not like to use any other word of the promoter that this law will not require any additional financial resources that you have noticed, and I have made it particularly clear. There's something else I'd like to say about what you warned me about and I wasn't talking about in my presentation, which is, if you remember at first, this government, the Kukuriku coalition, was telling us that in six months, it's going to reduce liquidity. It's been 16 months and none of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38846	And finally on behalf of the HDSSB representative club Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38847	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. I hope you understand me now if you don't understand the replica of the Deputy Minister. As we have announced, the HDSSB Club will support this law, but we point out that this law is 16 months late. That this law should be passed immediately at the beginning and immediately after the appointment of the Prime Ministers and the Government since indeed a small medium-sized enterprise, the craftsman represents a force which can move Croatia at this time because it is obvious that large state-owned companies with such administrations, with such supervisory committees in which political listeners obviously did not launch those big investments that Croatia is still a country without investment. And to me today, it's not clear either as a representative or as a politician or as a man why the president of HEP's administration is changing? Did he do something wrong or didn't do anything or didn't do anything? And I don't think we should read it in the papers, in the media, but it should be someone responsible from the government saying that the state in HEP was disastrous and that we had to raise electricity prices, gas prices. That we had to HEP for the last time but I don't know for the last time and give certain guarantees for huge borrowings. So it is our wish, and I think like any citizen of the Republic of Croatia, that every government of the Republic of Croatia manages to raise a bar, but in the standard of life, not the bar below which an elephant can be drawn, that this line should be aimed at the economic stability of this country and that we should not have a discussion here about how to live in Sweden because there is an extremely good living. There, 99% of the population lives extremely well, much like in Germany, similar to in EU countries, those of the EU's founders. But here I will remind myself that among other things, a whole series of laws and laws that apply to the economy come in spaces of a few months, so there is also a law on craftsmanship, so it is also very little for me, some craftsmen have even middle entrepreneurship and then you have objections to the Croatian Chamber of craftsmen on the draft of the Law of Brethren which practically repeals that law and here we will probably spend several and a few hours bickering about how this law is good, how it is revolutionary, how it will bring good to each craftsman and the crafts themselves are against such a law. First of all, to rationalize this time I have ahead of me. Croatia needs new healthy investments but obviously to these investments this government, this ministry cannot lead regardless of which I would say a more favourable way of lending but this is about lending. Where did that shake go, where did those sheiks go? The other day I went to Slavonia and I thought I saw a sheik, but it was Bai Mata who went to work the first time and went to the plant. It wasn't a shake, but he put it on, it was really hot, so he put on a hat. With a number of reliefs from the economy, reducing tax repression can primarily help decentralisation, fiscal decentralisation. Deputy, go to Macedonia, see what the country has done exclusively with fiscal decentralisation. Made it possible for local self-government to start the economy. This government has impoverished local self-government. Of all what is stated in the famous Plan 21, only and only the village of Podokin was left, so the citizens of Croatia _Other Organiser [[Intruder: Time of fellow Vinkovic.]] final sentence. [[Intruder: Final sentence.]] They think they live in paradise, but they live extremely miserablely in that only paradise we have, which is Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38848	Thank you. We've reported five replicas. The first one came to Josip Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38849	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Vinkovic, you asked yourself why the government would replace the HEP director when he was successful or said himself that the successful are not being replaced. And from the looks of it, I'm going to repeat that success I don't know which times here, last year HEP ends up a year with 72 million profits, a million kunas more than 2011 which was extremely unsuccessful. How did they get to get to you? They've taken citizens through 20% of the power collection of 700 million kuna. They issued long-term bonds to 500 million dollars, did not go into restructuring, and these days they share severances of 250 thousand kuna to employees who are 64, 65, and even 66 years old, allegedly a thousand and something must go from that company, and the largest investment of all HE, TE Plomin, Omble,..., Kosinja, Senja, etc. She didn't move any further than the story, nothing moved, and of course the price paid for such unsuccessful policies. And then again, I note that their biggest investment was the construction of a new HEP building in Kupska, a new office, new furniture, and 20 percent of it costs the citizens energy, and no results. And they claimed that the addition was because it was a bad hydrometerological year. This year there is, we have the cheapest electricity but the price of electricity is not going down, and I think that's why that failed director should go anyway. Here's why I wanted to explain.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38850	Thank you. We have a colleague Vinkovic's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38851	I'm not going to answer with a joke, but I think you're old enough to stop believing that story about Santa Claus. Apparently, someone still believes in Santa Claus. And the question really is, and I don't know the answer, so professional, though, retired. I also read that announcement that was our fellow representative of the assembly, the announcement that HEP has several thousand extra people but that they should be hired twice as many. These big investments were announced, I expected to go there from Slavonia, where there really is no investment, because Slavonia is poor not because of the people who live there, but by these measures from Mark's square that have been carried out all these 23 years that we understand each other because someone can't become poor overnight, but I really expected these big investments. One single investment financed from the state budget is the removal of these charging homes on the highway for private interest and who can explain it. If we are also an opposition party but we are not fools and we want to help this government get Croatia out of this economic crisis, so I would say the whole social crisis. And that's why we're proposing a solution. One of the solutions that can be triggered by Croatia and the economy is decentralisation. The second is the VAT reduction, ask Angela Merkel, the third are lower interest rates, etc.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38852	Thank you. Next Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38853	Thank you very much. You have well noticed, colleague Vinkovic, that the problem of fiscal decentralisation that was listed in Program 21 is the main problem of this country. In fact, after Alibaba and 40 heiduks for the past 16 months, you can sing Korni groups of rotten grandmothers plan, thought of 21 il, to pass her day and so on for 16 months. As for HEP, a colleague, Boric, has elaborated everything. It seems that the tender that was or wasn't for the director of HEP was the main condition whether anyone knew how to change the fuse or not, so I guess someone became if it wasn't for a party obedient and party man, the director of HEP. and now we have a problem in which as we see ourselves currently very much to say against coalition partners about who will be director of HEP without anyone asking about its expertise, about its programmes, projects and what it will do in HEP which could also be a driver, so HEEP as one big state-owned company could be a driver, let's say parts of the economy in the Republic of Croatia. And one more thing, I didn't want to convince you you used the word to convince, it's Croatian to convince it, just to correct it as a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38854	Thank you very much. We have a response from Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38855	This is what I, my colleague Boro, in this Croatian spelling, cannot be a wolf but not the one from the forest, but who Karadzic is obviously going in this direction with that I have nothing against the Serbian language but we have a Croatian language. But in any case, I mentioned one important element that Croatia can launch, it is precisely fiscal decentralisation, it is a fairer distribution of tax revenues both towards local and regional self-government. Because all these laws that are in these piles of paper, that many don't even read, but they lift their handle, vote and then they don't even know what they've voted for because that's what the boss of the party ordered and said, many mention the obligations of local self-government. Certain responsibilities are transferred to local self-government, but there is not a single June to perform that function. At this point, everything from about 100 kuna to 3 kuna according to local and regional self-government, including the City of Zagreb, and 97 kuna goes into a state budget that is full of holes like that Swiss trapist or Croatian trapist, the emmenter, as it is already called, so it doesn't just stop there, but it stops with Tom with Mrvic. And that's the fact of the Croatian economy and the situation in Croatia, that's a fact. We have the agency now, the government will determine the salary and the deputy, etc., so there won't be anyone professional there, it'll be just like that and no one can get in if it's not a member of the SDP because this Ministry is under SDP and there's a story over.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38856	Thank you. Too bad there are no colleagues in Vuksic, you would obviously be injuring the Rules of Procedure. Next replica, Mile Horvat. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38857	Thank you. Comrade Vinkovic, you said in your closing statement that there was a favourable way of lending. Of course it's a good thing and it's also foreseen Article 6 of these amendments to the law, but you have situations where this credit privilege can't be used by all entities. Let's say that if the investor is a healthy and strong OPG, he wants to invest through HBOR credits, along with Hamag's guarantee, he points to a business bank and then there's trouble. At this point in time, we have the impression that business banks are managing, and business banks have no particular interest in monitoring this kind of cheap lending, ultimately experience tells someone and finds various ways to reject such committees. Besides, they've been looking for an extra amount of risk lately, and besides what we've been saying here, there's going to be a HAMAG guarantee, they're also looking for 30% of their own cash value of investment, and someone who would have millions of their own means of guarantee certainly wouldn't be talking to a government or a business bank for this kind of money. Besides, I'd say in order to suggest something else. We have in Erdut Municipality a very strong business centre that has brought more than 10 million kunas of external investment in 4 years, but they say they would work even better, but they do not have the means to pre-financing European funds. They also say there is an inability to credit debt because it is the founder of municipalities, and the municipality has no credit rating. So, on the other hand, if the revenue of 10 million kuna is achieved so much is increased by the budget, the municipality automatically does not have the right to additional funds from the central state. These are things that are like this in life, and I'm saying this for a reason to point out those facts of life. The law is well-conceived and necessary, we will support it, but some suggestions from the field should be respected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38858	Thank you. We have an answer, colleague Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38859	So we won't be able to follow the remarks, the proposals from local, regional self-government on the ground as you say, because this law goes immediately by emergency procedure, and it's 16 months late, so I understand why it's going through an emergency procedure. However, you mentioned a very important topic, which is the withdrawal of funds from the European Union funds. So we have no position in the budget at all to help the local, regional self-government that has been devastated to finance these projects. We still have no option after this big cleanup and this plan 21 that doesn't exist anymore, and we don't even have a chance, we have a poor local self-government. We cannot look at life only from Zagreb, from the position of the state budget. All units of local self-government have fallen. With that income tax game, you got nothing. The number of unemployed increased, both GNI decreased and industrial production, etc., etc. And as for banks and credit conditions, it will be much easier to get a lower interest rate and more favourable credit conditions if you have your own national bank. It doesn't have to be Deutsche Bank, which is privately owned, but the owner of that bank is German, and I don't know where it came from. And we now have one single bank regardless of how credits were shared in it before, and instead of saving it, we sell it. We have an insurance company owned by the state, and we want to get rid of it. So we'll get rid of HEP because the director is bad, we've already got rid of INA and we'll get rid of Croatian waters, we'll get rid of everything, and we'll get rid of this Croatian government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38860	Thank you. Next replica, Ivan Milosevic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38861	Thank you. Dear colleague Vinkovic, you mentioned the Law on the Chamber of Brethren. Common sense requires you to ask someone how they can help you and when it's not in trouble, let alone when he's in trouble. Now as the current government best says the Croatian Chamber of Commerce's reaction and a whole series of objections to the law, starting with the VAT, so the Minister of crafts is raising his hand at the government's session to charge VAT immediately, and the only reason why craftsmen would want to be in this crisis today is to try to survive and not establish the d.o.o., therefore limited liability companies, is because they can pay VAT when they charge instead of financing the state. To return to the beginning of my replica. So, you have to listen, first you have to ask people who you're supposed to want to help out how and then listen to them.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38862	Thank you. We have an answer, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38863	That's what I've been doing, and that's why I've been mayor for 12 years, and I'm going to be four more regardless. But the fact is, so you're passing the Law of Rotation and then you don't have a partner's trade with those to whom the law applies. And so here's the majority of these are people who are probably retired, so why don't you ask them how they live off that little, weak pension. It's a fact and it doesn't have to go through the Retirement Party. This should go through the Croatian Parliament and the government should be among these people and the Prime Minister. But what it is, here's what the Croatian government wants first and that's what the remarks say. I hope it's someone who's got the government, that's what the minister got. Says the law violates the independence of the chamber, completely. So, this law crashes the Chamber of crafts, too, but I will return to this law so as not to harm the Rules of Procedure. The law is 16 months late. Croatia is a centralised state to pain, Croatia is suffering from Metheia, we do not have the solutions to exit, i.e. this government has no solution to get out of the economic crisis and then it is best to tell people we do not know. We wrote Plan 21 that we don't even know for ourselves what it says. We promised a better life, jobs, bigger wages, bigger pensions, we didn't do anything. And it's time to bow down and say goodbye, goodbye. No, we don't do that, we still hire party alike, we open agencies like the Agricultural Land Agency, and they don't know what to do, they don't have personnel, they don't have room, they don't have space.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38864	Thank you. Next replica, Djuro Poppie, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38865	Well, although it's not, of course, an esteemed fellow subject of the Law on crafts but it's important to really warn right now because he's in a public debate and we all know and listen to what he is, although we were also witnesses that the Chamber of crafts was thrilled when this Department of crafts formed and this little entrepreneurship. Now, though, after a grave disappointment, they write letters like this to all of us. And so exactly what does the minister do? He wants to turn the Chamber of crafts after 160 years into a state administration, as he now abolishes the BICRO Agency so he puts it in this HAMAG that I don't already know how he grew up and everything he deals with just not with what he needs. And how far does it go that the minister of this current, so Minister Maras wants to give an opinion on the Statute of the Chamber of crafts of independent non-governmental NGOs, so let him then give an opinion on what, on GONG, let him try. So, what's that? What, all the systems like the colleague said survived from Austria-Hungarian to socialism, and I don't know, no one dared do that. We're not saying that, and let the craftsmen say if that chamber and such chamber fit and what they would like, what these members would like as a service. The same goes for the Chamber of Commerce, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce and what fellow Milosevic mentioned. Minister Maras raises his hand on the VAT Act where craftsmen are, therefore, sticking the last nail into the coffin, which is that they pay VAT immediately after the invoice is issued instead of using the reverse method, to try to make it possible for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to also collect VAT or pay VAT after billing. This is what this government is doing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38866	We have a response from Zoran Vinkovic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38867	So I've already said that in Croatia, therefore a small medium entrepreneurship, craftsmanship, because I come from one city here this year to celebrate 200 years of craftsmanship, so organized craftsmanship, that first and this is the time to show. We won't have a 2, 3 week session for local elections right now, but I think if you want to run someone to simply deal with entrepreneurship, then you can't put right around their necks and tell them if you craftsmen have to answer to your entire property. So I'm saying why wouldn't a politician answer for his bad suggestions, bad or bad results of what they're proposing. Then believe that the whole government would lose their property, they'd be homeless, total homeless. You'd be out of anything. And some other governments don't normally hesitate so much that you stay in it. But I'm saying there are a number of ways. One way is certainly to decentralisation, reduce VAT, reduce other administrations. We've reduced those parafiscal burdens, that forest contribution, reduced 2% for healthcare, banged with it in the chest and the results nothing. And we delayed that payment of the monumental rent, and health care, schooling in collapse. In hospitals, when you're gone, you don't have a hat, but you should buy it at the pharmacy and bring it back. You don't have chalk in schools, because this centralization brought it, you don't even have toilet paper. Now that's the part that brought these measures along with this increase in the unemployed, enormous increase.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38868	I thank my colleague Vinkovic. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue, but before we continue, I would only ask myself to read the notice of the Education, Science and Culture Committee of the Croatian Parliament, which will be held today at 3:30 in the hall of Janko Drašković 202.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38869	Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Act on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development, the Emergency Procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 343. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like to ask the representative of the Deputy Minister of Entrepreneurship, the Honorable Drazen Pross, to plead. Amendment No. 1.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38870	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Government position, the government is manifested in a way that accepts the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38871	Accepts?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38872	That's right.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38873	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final proposal. Amendment No. Article 20(2)
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38874	Amendments are also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38875	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final text of the law. Amendment No. 3. of Article 21 The Legislative Committee.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38876	Sustained.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38877	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most of the votes, 79 votes in favour and 24 votes, have been abstentioned by the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Encouragement of Small Economy Development in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38878	We're going back to work. - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 352; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Legislative Committee. You received the reports at the session. We have with us a representative of the Proposer, Deputy Minister with an associate, Mr Zeljko Uhlir, on behalf of the Proposer. Deputy, here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38879	I thank the Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. I have an opportunity to present to you a brief proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity. The law on the exercise of geodetic activity provides for the provision of expert geodetic services in the Republic of Croatia. That law regulates the performance of expert geodetics in the field of national measurement, real estate and water catastrasts, expert geodetics for spatial planning and construction purposes, expert geodetics for the purposes of the commercialisation of agricultural land of professional geodetic businesses for protected and protected areas and other professional geodetic activities performed as services to legal and physical persons and association with the professional association of authorised geodetic engineers. The analysis of the provisions of that law found that the same was subsequently to be brought into line with the EU acquis, with the Internal Market Services Directive and with the Professional Qualifications Directive. The coordination should be ensured in the section relating to the provision of freedom of business creation and movement of services, the removal of obstacles for authorised geodesy engineers to have only one office and the erasure of the rules under which, after 6 months of interruption of work, the right to carry out expert geodetic activities is lost. The following needs of post-compliance have also been reviewed by the existing provisions of the laws which provide for the conditions for the performance of the professional and geodetic affairs of foreign persons established in the Contracting States of the European Economic Area Contracting Parties as well as foreign persons not established in the Contracting States of the European Economic Area, and new solutions have been proposed to carry out the professional geodetic activities of foreign persons. Furthermore, compliance with the EU acquis within the meaning of the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications also implies compliance with Croatian legislation, with the Law on regulated professions and the recognition of foreign professional qualifications, primarily in the section relating to the outcome of a solution of the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers on the recognition of foreign professional qualifications and the registration of a foreign person in the appropriate chamber records. This proposal amends and amends the law regulates individual actions under the jurisdiction of the State Geodetic Authority and in the part in which the mandatory content of the consent record is prescribed by the State Geodetic Authority as an official record. Furthermore, amendments to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity are also in line with the Penal Code in a way that avoids overlapping legal descriptions of offences and criminal offences as defined by the decision on the harmonisation of the law of the Republic of Croatia with the Penal Code. Following the adoption of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity in addition to compliance with the relevant acquis in the field of the provision of geodetic services on the internal market, the legal basis for the smooth existence of the law is provided, is improved in the part of the conduct of official records of administrative proceedings under the jurisdiction of the State Geodetic Authority and it is possible to simplify and practical application of the law and please support this amendment and supplementation proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38880	Thank you too, Deputy Minister. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. We'll stop working now. I'm setting up a break and we'll continue at 15.00 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38881	Here is a well-respected colleague and colleagues we would therefore continue to work and to remind ourselves of the final proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity. Now we'd move on to club debates. And the first is the HDZ club, the distinguished representative Branko Bačić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38882	I would like to thank Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Mr. Deputy, with an associate, an honorary colleague and a colleague. As the Deputy Minister also said in his introduction, the amendments and additions to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity in the process of order are adopted in order to comply with the acquis of the EU, in particular in the section relating to the Internal Market Services Directive and the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications. And in that part, we at the HDZ Club have no significant objections because, in accordance with the signed, completed negotiations on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full EU membership, we have also committed ourselves to respect EU legal legislation, so in that part when we talk about these directives and the part relating to ensuring freedom of business and the movement of services. In that sense, and the removal of obstacles for authorised geodesy engineers to then not have to, or they may have more than one office as it has been resolved so far, and then these amendments to the law delete the rule by which, after 6 months of interruption of work, the right to carry out professional and geodetic activities is lost. The following needs for post-compliance were also reviewed by the existing provisions of the law which lay down the conditions for the performance of professional and geodetic activities, foreign persons established in the Contracting States of the European Economic Area as well as foreign persons who are not established in the Contracting Parties to the Treaty on European Economic Area. This law, as stated in the explanation, proposes new solutions for the implementation of the professional geodetic affairs of foreign persons. It is clear that in that part, when the law itself on the conduct of geodetic activities had already been adopted, the law further complied with the law, with the penal law of the Republic of Croatia, as well as with the illegal legislation. As I said at the club, we have no objections in that part because we are in a certain way forced and it is good that we have also brought jobs, i.e. work in geodetic activity into line with the EU acquis. However, what we believe is that the promoter, that the Government and the Resort Ministry, and certainly the State Geodesy Administration could, along with this amendment to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, listen to the observations made by the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers, which, in turn, requested a broad amendment to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity which the promoter did not adopt, he generally accepted only those remarks, that is, the need to comply with the law with AKIJ, but it was good that from that proposal that the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers were given to adopt the part which they proposed and not contrary to the Services Directive on the internal market. In particular, the Law on State Change and Real Estates, which together with this Law on the conduct of geodetic activity in general regulates the geodetic profession in Article 2 of the Law on State Measurement and Real Estates, states that the tasks of governmental measurement and real estate cataster are of interest to the Republic of Croatia and, consequently, the persons authorised to carry out such operations are persons of public trust. Even in the Law itself on Geodetic Activities, it is said that certain tasks within the framework of the performance of expert geodetic works defined by this law, authorised geodetic engineers carry out official activities in the field of measurement conducted by state bodies as persons of public trust. This proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity with the final proposal for a law mainly does not cover areas proposing better regulation of the profession in the interests of the Republic of Croatia in this section relating to the accession of the Republic of Croatia to full EU membership. So, when we have already mentioned, which is the law and defined that authorised geodesy engineers and in certain procedures carried out by persons of public trust, then the special position of Croatian engineers, authorised geodesy engineers could still be singled out by this law in a certain way when they perform official actions in the business of cadastrian measurement or technical reambulation, maintenance of land cadastres, maintenance of real estate cadastres and the translation of cadastral land particles into cadastral land cadastres of real estate, land co-massation, procedures conducted by administrative bodies, procedures conducted by judicial authorities, recording of the real position of the border of existing cadastral particles condition of the existing data on them which are not considered traffic of real estate, establishing borders and placing border markings. Therefore, where authorised engineers carry out official actions such as the notification of parties and other participants in the course and actions, the collection of statements by parties and participants, the collection of records on official actions, the provision of field actions for the purpose of determining facts, the marking of established borders and other borders with visible permanent markings, the hearing of parties and other participants, the acquisition of necessary documents, the collection of data on landholders, the collection of data on buildings and other buildings, the presentation of measurement data and the appraisal of embodies and the provision of data on the actions carried out in the process of further handling of the competent authority. So when these actions are carried out by authorised geodesy engineers, we stick to this law and what would not be contrary to the directives that this law is harmonized with, we could have been more in line and I say we would not have violated the equality of access to Croatia and then to the European market. We could have been more protective of Croatian citizens performing geodetic activities. So we believe that in that part and the Croatian Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers gave their proposals, we expected that through this law, a part of these jobs that I mentioned earlier would be excluded, excluded and left for certain... under precisely prescribed conditions which would not violate the rule of freedom of equal market access if we could thus more protect the geodetic profession in the Republic of Croatia. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So here's what I'm saying is that the HDZ Club in the section regulated by law accepts such a law, but we add that through this harmonisation of the law, we could leave a certain, diversified way of provisions to protect the position of domestic geodetic engineers, or authorised geodesy engineers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38883	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be on behalf of SDp's club, the distinguished representative Željko Kolar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38884	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, the esteemed Deputy Minister with an associate, respected colleagues and colleagues. The proposal for a law on amendments to the laws on the practice of geodetic activity, as counterpart Bačić said, is a harmonisation with the EU acquis or the Services Directive on the internal market and with the Directives on the recognition of professional qualifications. First, perhaps this review, which is not related to the law itself and which did not enter the law, which was spoken by counterpart Bačić about the protection of Croatian engineers in some way, the geodesy chamber proposed either an exemption from certain types of affairs and which would be related either to the geodetic measurement or to a non-commissation, border editing or some court proceedings. It was used to be done by authorized people who worked, geodetics who worked in catastre offices and geodetic jobs. In this area, when these jobs were in some way banned from catastre and geodetic offices. That's what authorized engineers started doing. Is this a good process, and it's a big question because we have very professional and quality personnel working in the field offices of cadastre and geodetic affairs and we have to admit that they've been paid badly. And in this way, some judicial committees working with municipal courts were both faster and more efficient than private ones. We have to admit that. However, we have opted for a market economy, so this is probably the next. But I know a lot of colleagues who went to privates afterwards, and it's very important that we in the state service, so within the state geodetic administration and the government of the Republic, we have quality personnel, that we have a responsible and professional job. Every investment actually starts in the cadastre office and geodetic affairs. This is also forgotten by many, and perhaps architecture engineers and building engineers have a greater reputation and status in society and position and I am not sure that the profession is worth more than geodetic. And besides that, after the Austro-Hungarian monarchy, we had in our cadastre and geodetic administration offices actually one first inventory of the total state that had passed through four countries practically survived and that the catastrian and geodetic offices had done it without additional compensation, that people had worked from morning to dark and that we had not rewarded them in any way until we had digitized them in municipal courts or we had hired new employees or employees who did so had been paid overtime work. We didn't do that to the State Geodetic Administration's offices when they were doing these jobs. As regards this final draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Geodetic Activity, the Law on the Croatian Classification Framework means that professional and geodetic affairs in the offices prescribed by this Act and legal persons registered for the conduct of expert geodetic activities may be carried out not only by persons who are in a working relationship in accordance with labour regulations but also by persons who are trained professionally to work without the establishment of a working relationship in accordance with the regulations that encourage employment. So that's news. What the colleague of the bačić said is, in Article 3 of the provisions of the article, the provisions of the law which stipulate that an authorised engineer of geodesy may have one office in the Republic and thus comply with the provisions of Article 15 2 E of the Internal Market Services Directive. This law now gives us for the first time certain conditions under which foreign natural and legal persons can carry out expert geodetic tasks in the Republic of Croatia and those in charge of ensuring responsibility for damages, with particular distinction between those coming from the EU and those who do not have a professional exam that must be passed as well as our engineers. More news is that the Chamber of Authorised Geodesy Engineers will no longer keep records of decision approvals and confirmations to carry out the professional geodetic work of foreign natural legal persons but will now be done by the State Geodetic Administration, etc. The SDP Club will support the Proposal for amendments to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity with the final draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38885	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38886	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, here's colleague Kolar continued the same way I did. So in his debate, he pointed out the question, that is, of the decision that certain tasks carried out by civil servants who were employed in administrations or offices of catastra throughout Croatia were left to them by law by certain businesses to the private sector, but by that law, we have identified the authorised geodesy engineers with this law as persons of public trust precisely because we give them certain official jobs performed by civil servants in the Catastres until then. Now, because of the further liberalisation of these tasks for which Collar's colleague has shown his question, was it a good decision to leave it to private persons, therefore to authorised geodesy engineers, we are now still moving forward with this law and we are leaving it to persons or geodetics coming from EU Member States or from other countries with which there is this principle of reciprocity in doing these jobs. This is the question expressed by authorised geodesy engineers through their chamber, that we do not leave these jobs entirely to the market or that we prescribe stricter conditions that these privates coming from other countries and the jobs that our authorised geodesy engineers have taken over from cataster officials, now they are doing, and there are a series of obstacles to studying than taking a state exam later on, and so on. So this is about whether it is good to leave these jobs completely to the market or not to lay down stricter conditions for who and how they can do it, and not just for the sake of freedom of the market, to leave these jobs to be done.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38887	Thank you very much. The Honorable Representative, Željko Kolar, will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38888	Comrade Bačić, we think alike, but sometimes you remember that the map 1:5,000 above was written by military secret or state secret, sometimes it was up to data if a society got it had to sign the way they could use those cards etc. Today we have on the Internet we can download any map, we can fit it on a digital orthophoto and time carries its own. We can lift the grant extract on the Internet, we can lift the property list on the website. He still can't be used as a document but for information he can and the question is when are we going to do it like on an ATM when we're raising money today, it's only a matter of when it's time to raise the property paper and the grant excerpt. But the fact is that state geodetic administrations have for business to review the elaborates and that it is one filter, means that privates, regardless of who gets a job or... of the competitions, the parcels or anything else, that this elaborate comes to the Office of the State Geodetic Administration and that it must pass the check, only when it is checked then it goes to grantonics and catastrans. That is another filter, and in my opinion, we do not yet have a uniform criteria in the entire Republic of Croatia to change that. It must remain a filter when we can even the criteria when we set standards then we can also think about it because I know that something has already started and discussed it. Personally, I'm not up for it until we create conditions until we create the same conditions in the entire space of the Republic of Croatia, the same standards when I surrender to the camp or to me in Klanjc or Slavonski Brod to be worth the same. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38889	Thank you very much. The closing statement on behalf of the promoter will be said by the esteemed Deputy Minister Mr Zeljko Uhlir. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38890	I thank you for this constructive debate. It was nice to hear from the ministry that it was going to improve as much of our law and protection of our activities as possible. In any case, the Ministry of Civil Engineering and the State Geodetic Administration are working on making as much as possible, and what has been pointed out is going to be dealt with in the last quarter when it changes and going to change the Law on Measurement, and then once again, this law and comprehensive processes will be covered. Well, I thank you again for your support.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38891	We have a replica of the respected representative Branko Bačić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38892	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. I am pleased that the State Geodetic Administration, or the Resorving Ministry, will start to fully amend the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity but I fear that when we adopt this law and Croatia becomes a full member of the EU on 1 July that we will find it difficult to change some of the restrictions that we have now been able to put into this new law more easily once we become a full member of the EU. It seems to me that we have missed this moment, to say that under certain conditions, certain provisions limit that freedom of access to the Croatian market to persons who at this time are not according to the existing law of a person of public trust and who, with due respect, will not be able to carry out such a quality of access to the Croatian market without saying that these are certain jobs that Mr Kolar just now said the official secret or part of the state office documentation. But if that is the decision by the government, it will be difficult to change it after July 1st. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38893	Thank you very much. We have completed the debate on the text of this law, and we will vote when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38894	Finalises the draft Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 352. The debate on the final text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee. I would like the representative of Željko Uhlir Deputy Minister of Construction and Spatial Planning to show about the amendment. Amendment No. Article 4 is replaced by the following:
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38895	The amendment is accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38896	Thank you very much. It's becoming an integral part. Amendment No. 2.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38897	It's also accepted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38898	Thank you very much. It becomes an integral part of the final bill. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 79 votes in favour and 24 votes have been abstentions to the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the conduct of geodetic activity in the text, as proposed by the Proposer, together with the amendments adopted.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38899	We would now move to the next point, that is - Final proposal of the Law on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Accreditation, emergency procedures, first and second reading, PZE No. 353 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act. In accordance with Article 159 of the Treaty, the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislative Affairs and the Committee on Economic Affairs. You received the reports at the session. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? Obviously not. We've only got one hearing reported. On behalf of the HDSSB Representatives Club, the word will be given by representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38900	I thank Mr. Vice President and the virtual representatives of the government. It's a bit incomprehensible since it's also a bill of law. European law, on the threshold of Croatia's entry into the European Union, that we do not have any representatives of the government. Since I will be extremely brief, and obviously I have no one here, therefore, to put this problem which is related to an accreditation body which will therefore carry out certain, very important tasks, in my opinion, which is the accreditation of legal and physical persons to confirm products, staff management systems, as well as for persons legally and physically who carry out technical supervision of similar activities, etc. But especially interesting is this case where the Government of the Republic of Croatia will appoint this body and mention this body as an independent body, and since there is no government at this time of the Republic of Croatia, I just want to warn that it is indeed an independent body, not a body such as HERA, in which it is visible that it is a body that fulfils the functions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38901	Thank you very much. We have one replica of the distinguished representative Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38902	Thank you. It's not really a replica, it's a reference to the fact that there are no government representatives here. The Croatian Parliament will have to move very quickly, and should now think about establishing a new committee that exists in all European parliaments, the European Union's parliaments, the Committee on European Laws. So far, that function has actually been performed by the government. The government takes over the directive and transforms it into some kind of law, parliament says I agree or disagree. More or less other national parliaments have committees that consider these directives and suggest, in fact, to the Government and Parliament themselves, how to transform the directive into national law, and to transpose the essence of the directive, rather than harm national legislation. We have not seen this aspect at all this whole time as a Parliament, and we will have to, and so it is a reminder and Parliament's leadership to think about it and that this Committee on European Laws, the Committee on European Affairs, as you will like to call, establish and that it is starting to work because it is clearly already half the law that we are passing are PZE laws, so the European Parliament has passed some regulation in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38903	Thank you very much. As far as I know such a committee is intended, it must exist and it will exist quite certain. Please, Honorable Representative Zoran Vinkovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38904	Dear fellow, it is not only important here whether or not this committee will exist, it is likely that it will take a long time for it to be put into office, or set up. In my view, however, the more important issue here is therefore to permanently limit the performance of the national accreditation service by establishing an independent accreditation body by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, in the further text of the law, an accreditation body but as a public institution. So every public institution has both a ficus and a secretary and a cell phone and an official car and a cleaning lady and a dactylograph and a secretary or secretary, so we don't go into gender equality right now. And I'm particularly surprised, so I expected someone from the MPs, so here I am welcoming the virtual Prime Minister or the Minister of Economy, or I don't know who to greet because obviously this law and this bill have no one to defend. And now we have good faith, that in good faith we believe what it says on paper that it will indeed be an independent body, will not be appointed under political pressure, that it will not blindly execute the orders of the employer or the commander who will also pay out of the budget, but here I say I welcome all members of the Government wherever they are. Here's the next law we have a representative of the government, but there's no one in this case. They may be concerned with the appointment of the director of HEP and the unification of liberal or neoliberal concepts. I'm glad it's Djakovcan, but I'm saying someone should still be from the Ministry of Economy here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38905	Thank you very much. Here's what we'd end up discussing the text of this law, and we'll vote on it when the conditions are met.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38906	Final proposal of the Law amending and supplementing the Law on accreditation, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 353. The debate on the final text of the law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously from 104 votes to the adoption of a law amending and supplementing the Law on accreditation in the text, as proposed by the Proposer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38907	And then we'd move on to the next point. The next item is - Proposal for a Law on the Foundation "Croatian House – Croatia House", first reading, P.Z. No. 336. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received a proposal for an act. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. So far, the debate has been conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia. You've received reports. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Here's a word from the Honorable Minister of Culture, Professor Andrea Zlatar Violić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38908	Honorable Vice President of the Parliament, honourable MPs and MPs. I would like to explain the reasons why we launched the procedure for the establishment of the Croatian House Foundation or Croat House in its international English form. It is that for years, of course, there has been a presentation of Croatian culture, heritage, language in international spheres, and that the issue is usually addressed by individual initiatives that go from art organisations, either from local self-government or by two most competent or resolutely bound ministries such as the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. Facing the fact that in most European countries these issues are not equally regulated. In some countries, the general representation of culture in Europe is related to the foreign ministry, in some it is directly by cabinets. However, what we have seen in practice in recent years is that it is the most efficient and successful way of presenting, namely the organisation of the presentation of the Croatian culture of art, heritage and language abroad if there are specialised institutions for this. It is about a type of foundation that in countries with a long tradition like France, Germany has those famous names that are clear as the French Institute, Goethe Institute, British Council and so on. However, the countries that joined Europe in 2000 also established different foundations for both culture and science. The most famous examples come from Poland, which is usually the most successful in its presentation, as well as countries from northern Europe. So, Estonia, Lithuania, which is not large countries but very specific to its cultural and linguistic heritage and the way their presentation of culture has become more successful within Europe, and we have to say at global levels since the establishment of a common point, i.e. points which would imply all the existing initiative on international representation and thus create one synergy basis. The practical experiences we have had in this year and a half, and earlier, show that the ministries as well as other state administration bodies do not have the type of operation that can have foundations, because simply the people who work in these bodies are not qualified to work on a production and management organisation when it comes to the performances of artists, or on the other hand there are regular and harmonised practices who and when, where they represent Croatian culture. What is the greatest advantage of the possibility of establishing a foundation is, of course, the area of funding because the foundation has the opportunity to finance not only with the assets mentioned in the proposal, because it will not be financed directly from the budget, but also with funds coming from different foundations and foundations in Europe and the world that are just intended to encourage programmes and projects to present culture within European countries or within the whole of the Western European cycle. The initiative for this project, therefore, is a joint initiative of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs and the Ministry of Culture with an emphasis on the idea of the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs which speaks of what is called soft or indirect diplomacy where political representation is, of course, now with the entry into the EU, particularly interestingly replaces or replaces with ways of presenting Croatia in so-called Croatia. cultural identity, language or garden sense. It is clear and this shows a number of examples in practice that exactly the way in which the country or new country meets, the new members opens contacts, points to visibility and we can show the civilization and cultural level of one country, and it is precisely the Croatian country that can testify that about its long-term cultural history and also about contemporary artistic production that requires its worthy presentation abroad. I'd like to stress two more elements. The first is that in the way it works, at first its founding financial resources will be invested by the Ministry of Culture and the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs by 100,000 from those items that were used or used to promote Croatian culture abroad. In terms of the work of the foundation, it will not require an increase in costs as it will use existing spaces for its operation in diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Croatia around the world. On the other hand, we also expect the reconstruction of actually working bodies within individual ministries, since after joining the EU one part of bilateral affairs will no longer be needed or will not be implemented in the form that is being implemented today, that employees and employees of competent ministries will also work in these places with additional education. So, we are not looking for and we are not proposing to rent new spaces or financial burdens in this regard, and neither is new employment, but rather with additional education for these specific activities of the organisation, one repurpose of existing personnel. At the very end, I would say that we were particularly aware of this foundation and harmonising the function of the State Office for Croatians outside the Republic of Croatia because the State Office is also one of the bodies that finance Croatia's cultural promotion beyond its borders and through a public tender where one third of the funds go for the needs of culture and primarily in BiH. What is quite clear is that in this way the activities of the Croatian House Foundations and the activities of the State Office for Croatians will be coordinated abroad, that is, their competitions and that we hope and believe that functionality in particular in organisational independence and specialization will help to better present Croatia abroad. We are aware that unlike the large countries, we cannot play on a self-sustainability map of such a project because the interest in learning Croatian language is not so great that large groups of courses can be organised. So, the way you finance a comparable French institute or Goethe Institute. However, in all particularly regional countries, countries that are in the region and with which we have a number of business contacts, so Hungary, Austria, Italy are also working on cooperation and with university capacities existing that, in the need in which these countries are, these residents are required, organised language courses that belong to another source of naturally additional funding. That's how much I'd like to start. It's about first reading, I believe you'll have a series of useful remarks and suggestions to supplement this law until its second reading and final adoption. What I would just like to say is that Croatia does not have much experience in the functioning of public foundations as a whole. At the initiative of the Ministry of Culture in 2011, the Ministry of Culture, or the Government of the Republic of Croatia, established a Foundation for Independent Culture called "Cultura Nova", which works well, and I think we must learn from examples of good practice at this time, in accordance with what is prescribed by Croatian legislation, and since 1,07 and which are EU directives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38909	Thank you very much. We have one replica, a respected representative of Duja Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38910	Your Honor, Mr. President, Madam Minister. I would look back a little economically on this topic, it seems to me that Croatian diplomacy is too massive anyway, it has kept the scope and perhaps those socialist diplomacys, and I have now heard from your presentation that we are now leaving these people without work after Croatia's entry into the EU. Now let's make up some calling for them and then the Croatian house. That's how I figured it out. I'm against it. I think that the current diplomacy needs to be rationalized, de facto reduced, and not yet pumped into double diplomacy and some trusts. So we're not Soros, Soros has money, expands his villa, his worldview, his interests and these multinational companies, etc. We are a small country and unfortunately reduce everything that applied to Croats outside the country, to our idea in the world. We've reduced a lot, and now somehow because of the need to hire these people, we're making up some hot water. So what will our ambassadors, or ambassadors, do? So what are they doing there? The economy isn't helping us anyway, they're hardly serving anything anyway. I don't know what they're for and what they're for, what they've been celebrated for in the world so far if they can't propagate what they should be propagating to. So I don't like that idea. It's just hiring people, no use. I'm sorry for the rough version, but that smells a little bit like it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38911	Thank you very much. Now we'd like to move on to the debate. Do the committee's best rapporteurs want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. Then we move on to the debate, and there's more club representatives. And the first came from the HDZ Representatives' Club and on behalf of which the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38912	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected ministers with associates. We have before us this Act on the Foundation "Croatian House-Croatia House" in the first reading. I think it's very good that here we finally from the Ministry of Culture have the first whole new law coming to the Croatian Parliament in the first reading. I think I've got a pretty good idea of what the Ministry of Culture's goal and intensity is in proposing this bill. However, we feel that the law on the foundation is not the right way to achieve it, I will say for what. The question of language and culture is not something to manage from the embassy, it is our deep conviction. Culture is, in general, not something to manage directly, but to create frameworks so that it can be developed. If we are now going with reduced funds to establish a foundation, even with £200,000, even with additional funding from lottery funds, then we are directly reducing funds for programmes created in culture. In our deep belief, it would be much smarter to invest these funds directly in programmes that already have links in international cultural cooperation, but then we don't need a foundation, then it's the work of the international cultural co-operation administration. It is much better to use these funds for cultural exchange if we are to do so, if we are to achieve a certain effect for our cultural industries, then it is much better to invest these funds in what is given to Croatian publishing at this time, it is much better to invest these funds in the translation of Croatian writers what I know the ministry is doing, but it would be better to have greater financial opportunities. Then Croatian culture or culture created in the Republic of Croatia, to call it that, will have a much greater effect on the international agenda. It was also shown in the successful actions of the Ministry of Culture and here we must say and admit, as was the Croatian country partner in the French cultural season or as we will say this participation of Croatian writers at the fair in London. And that's how culture needs to be promoted in the world. I totally think it's inappropriate to compare the Croatia House Foundation with Cervantes, Gete, or the British or Italian institutes that have huge financials behind them compared to what's been suggested here. It is absolutely unnecessary to duplicate the programmes and ask that the Foundation works part of international, cultural programmes where there are financial resources on paragraphs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Culture. And while the Ministry of Culture still has a certain criterion system worked out for what it will finance, we did not see it in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, regardless of what was a few hundred percent increase in the funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the cultural presentation of the Republic of Croatia in 2012. Call each of our ambassadors at this time in Europe and the world, you will see that none can receive additional funds to promote the Republic of Croatia when it joins the EU. Call anyone, Poland, Austria, Germany, France, and call the newly appointed ambassador to France and ask him what his budget is to promote Croatian culture as Croatia enters the EU. And we instead of putting those small funds we have directly into these programmes that will be chosen by our ministries by the prescribed criteria that I have told you and that there are, we are investing in establishing a new foundation. Why? If we go to the entire foundation, why is there no Ministry of Science here, when we talk about languages, when we know that the funds for Croatian lecturers are being reduced by universities in Europe and the world? It would be logical if that were the participation of the Ministry of Science. If we want to make a certain economic gain, could this be understood from the word of the first Deputy Prime Minister who mentioned on the current clock that "Croatian House" is a kind of beginning of Croatia, let's say I know "Cervantes or Gete Institute that will start operating in the region and use the culture of science, education in communication with the first order of the region where we have an advantage that the Anglo-Saxonsonians have almost all over the world." It was clearly meant to understand language. If we want to use this, then these additional funds should primarily go into publishing and support new audiovisual activities that we will be able to place on this regional, absorption market. However, it says in the bill that members of the Foundation's Management Board will not receive compensation, but we will also have a director of the foundation here, he will probably receive compensation, however it is not said here. So, I guess it will. By listening carefully to the minister and to the exposure, we suspect that this way of the proposed foundation will gain the effects that the Ministry of Culture has in the proposal states that it wants to achieve this. In addition, there is a part of the problem that we are constantly forgetting and that is, of course, the question of Croats living outside the country. We can contact again, remember the lecturer, teach in Croatian for children of our emigrants, etc. However, the fact is that at the same time as we increase the funds of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Cultural Promotion, we are being dropped through competitions from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for Cultural Needs of the Croatians in the diaspora. First of all, it refers to the Croats in BIH, Vojvodina and Boki Kotorska. Those funds are falling all the time. Last year they came to a historic minimum. Even so, the foundation will not help us. If we want to help their cultural activities, then it would be better to invest those funds again in an already existing programme. In the foundation as such, the only thing I can see is that there is a serious danger here of reducing the allocation criteria because this went through the international cultural co-operation administration that I will still allow myself to say, but it does hold certain such criteria. When it comes to the foundation of the board of directors, no one will be able to control it anymore. Is this where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs wishes that through the Administrative Council it determines which programs, which artists and what cultural activities and which cultural industries place in Europe are here as the Deputy Prime Minister in the region says. By what criteria? If that's what the Foreign Ministry is doing and I'm sorry there's no foreign ministry representative here. Will it work on those criteria as they split the money in 2012 when that item is increased seems to me by 800% don't hold my word. Who decided and by what criteria the programs would be distributed. Who? If they had this system that existed in the Resolute Ministry of Culture, they wouldn't have asked that question, but I'm asking it now because I'm afraid that the lottery funds that are also shrinking because the lottery is doing worse and worse they won't be able to co-finance the programs and in terms of heritage. This is a particularly dear theme for us as Christians and conservatives. The funds for the restoration of heritage, especially for archaeology, are so drastically cut that by budgeting the monumental rent that soon if we want to promote cultural heritage in Europe or the region, we will not be able to promote anything because we simply won't be able to systematically restore it. Croatian... You know that well, Madam Minister, over two million people have seen it. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is however we reverse the archaeological findings and in the budget of the Ministry of Culture for all archaeological research in the year is planned only one million kuna, 300% reduction this year. At the same time, the archaeological find is one of the peri-curves of a very successful French cultural season. So there's logic, and at the same time we're going with the trust law that's said in inclusion and we agree that we should promote the heritage. And now we're going to be small from these funds that have remained in culture, and they know that good colleagues and colleagues as much as we from the HDZ Club have tried to defend these budget items to fund something from these little ones that we can turn to be a cold view, because that director is going to have to travel or spend some money, because you from your ministry are going to have to finance it, too, from Chapter 05 popularly called to cover those costs. In our deep confidence, it would be better if you put these funds directly into the programmes through the International Cultural Cooperation Administration, both colleagues and colleagues from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Those programmes that already have cultural cooperation, as regards the region you want from the theatre, you want from the museums, you want from the archives, all already have very well-established cultural co-operation with the country's parts of the region. Thus, these assets should have been invested slightly. Unfortunately, I do not believe that direct benefits will have a promotion of Croatian culture, for this there will simply not be enough money or Croatian cultural industries to support them in a reduced budget and I cannot support them in Croatia and let alone promote them further, and under the number three of these will not in any way profit from the cultural activities of the Croats in the diaspora. We will try positively to get involved in a public debate that was on the website of the Ministry of Culture and we are glad that the Ministry has opened its website for public debate. However, we are very sorry that none of what were individuals was an association of associations that gathers 39 members of the Association in the area of independent culture that the ministry of this facility as far as we can see in this first reading did not take into account. And how vague the whole project may be, not sufficiently explained and perhaps strategically not well-planned says that one letter of support came in the public debate, which is from the Croatian Kinological Union. Of course, it is nice and that we all support a kinological alliance that supports the idea of establishing a foundation because then they will be able to promote Croatian indigenous breeds of dogs, which are Dalmatian dog, posavini goniè, Istrian short hairs and sharp goniè, Croatian sheepdog and small Međimurje dog, of course nothing... according to these dear pets and indigenous breeds but I just want to take this as an example of an underdeveloped system of what the Croatian house should wear. However, given the projected financial resources left by the Ministry of Culture in this cut, it was not so when Mr. Ivan Shuker was Minister of Finance, it was not. Looks like we may also have to use the promotion of indigenous breeds. Thank you very much, the HDZ Club will, in this first reading, want the ministry to adopt these remarks from the public debate, be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38913	Thank you very much. Your presentation caused one replica, which is the respected representative of Marija Lugaric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38914	Dear counterpart Mesic, in his debate at one point, referred to the funds reserved in the educational and science portfolio for education of children abroad and for the regular activity of the lecturers and said they were reducing both. For the sake of truth, the 2013 budget proposal for education of children from Croatian emigrants abroad increased from 22.9 million to 25.8 million and by 12.8% respectively, and the regular activity of lectorates from 3.8 million to 3.99, respectively, by exactly 5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38915	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Jasen Mesic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38916	Dear colleagues, I'm known as a man who loves thorough and concrete people, and maybe we didn't get along well. I said if a foundation is set up to promote a single Croatian language, a promotion of Croatian language, that it would be good if the Ministry of Science were involved, that it would be good if there were bigger funds, and I specifically said that the funds that are reducing is precisely for promoting cultural programmes that go abroad afterwards. I'm sorry if we didn't get along well.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38917	Thank you very much. Next, on behalf of the HNS club, a respected representative, Goran Beus Richembergh, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38918	Dear Mr. Vice President, Madam Minister with associates, colleagues and colleagues. The Ministry of Culture, together with the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs, has formulated a proposal that we definitely did not expect to be at the beginning of 100% of the understanding. For a simple reason, because the issue of cultural identity among other things is one great matrix showing the hypocrisy of those who do not miss the opportunity to mention the need to protect national interest in the preservation of cultural identity, which, on the other hand, should suspend the promotion of cultural identity and its protection in this particular case in international context, are, above all, welcome by the European then with great infidelity or with suspicion. Yes, exactly the Ministry of Culture's budget this year is smaller than the previous years. Yes, it is true for many programs, for many purposes funds have been cut off. Yes, it is true that the Minister of Culture does not belong in the ranks of the happiest members of the government, given the resources available and how cultural policies supported by quality finances can be maintained. So it's not some wisdom to conclude. Or imagine, for example. that for those activities that founded the "Croatian House" Foundation this year, it was possible to spend for example. one hundred funds that will now be used to resuscitate the health system. Imagine that only 1/20 funds spent on the coverage of the loss or rehabilitation of the shipyard are now possible to target the promotion of the cultural identity of Croatia, how much this would be. It is not just about promoting culture and promoting the language of the Croatian people here it is about a much broader context. This is about managing a systematic international, external, regional policy of the Republic of Croatia at a time when it enters the EU as one of the 28 members, aware of the fact that Croatians as a relatively small people Croatian culture as a space that takes up relatively small gauges in relation to other European peoples especially in the light of globalisation, especially in the light of trends that seek lingue franchise, so it must do everything available to preserve its speciality. But not only that, but that there is a speciality that is understandable to space from, say, at least 20 million people use as a medium to promote their own interest. When we now call on the distribution of funds from the Ministry of Foreign and European Affairs for international cultural co-operation and when it is said that it is not known by which criteria the funds will be allocated through this foundation, who will control the schedule of these funds. I will only remind myself of the year 2003 when in the government at the levels of the ministries there was absolute chaos in the distribution of funds, amazing in 2003 the inherited system of the 1990s was barely broken because barely a new model was built that was translated into the National Foundation for Civil Society Development when that space so-called was removed. discretion without criteria and when a new model of evaluation of the programme has been set up which today, responsibly argues, takes the highest possible level of quality in the framework of the European Union and then returns all happiness to the ministries so that today the ministries share the funds in a form and code developed by the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, unfortunately not according to the terms that would be expected and good because it is generally known that some ministries are today examining tenders for the allocation of funds in the third or quarter of the current year for this year. It's inadmissible, it's a shame to know what's in the state budget and how it's programmed in the 12th month at the latest this year for next year. And why now is such a suspicion of the idea of establishing the foundation "Croatian House" when there is not only an example of good practice but a code that is embedded in the practice of all those who share funds in the Republic of Croatia from public funds precisely on the basis of one experience called the National Foundation for Civil Society Development, which is the founder of the Croatian Parliament. Therefore, it is expected that the foundation "Croatian House-Croatia House" does not go below that level that was established here as standard. As for the funds, it is known that the ministries cannot share the funds other than the funds from the state budget, the Croatian House Foundation will be able to do so, because it is generally known that the funds are also the funds of other donors and other foundations. If the "Croatian House" develops such quality matrixes of its programs that will be transparent, and on the other hand, which will bear the quality of what is called the affirmation of national specificities and national culture. Well, I'm not sure that some countries and some national foundations, but international ones won't help us, especially if we step into a multicultural space and work together. There are already some announcements in this sense that there is a high level of goodwill. And that is why the model of the foundation "Croatian House-Croatia House" is one of the possible models of the constitution of concerns about how Croatia is presented on the international cultural scene, i.e. the maximumisation of the potential that we now have, which is mostly uncoordinated. I see no reason why Croatian famous artists who visit abroad would not, in cooperation with the "Croatian House" do something that will be systematically programmed, definitely turned towards the promotion of Croatia in a narrow sense, not just according to the promotion of them as artists. I'm sure many of them will give so much, so much to contribute, so much to participate. I wouldn't want to raise any doubt about it. And that is why the HNS club of Liberal Democrats supports this proposal in its first reading. We will leave ourselves free until the second reading and some reflections to make the text even clearer to those who were currently showing skepticism, wishing that this issue in the form of another reading would take place before the summer so that this foundation could begin to function in the year in which Croatia becomes the 28th member of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38919	Thank you very much. We have three replicas that caused your exposure. The first is the respected representative of Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38920	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear fellow Minister, I am now deeply convinced that a thematic session of the Committee on Culture and perhaps of the Committee on Tourism, which is very agile on this issue, as it is obvious that this bill did not come up with sufficient understanding. I'll just go back to the question of cultural identity. I don't know who you meant, he'll probably... be hypocritical in promoting cultural identity. While I was working at the Ministry of Culture, it was since '96. By 2012, I had not met anyone there who was hypocritical in promoting cultural identity, whether they were SDP ministers or HDZ ministers. I really haven't met anyone. As far as everything that is said in the promotion of Croatian culture is absolutely yes, it is only a question of whether this is how you will achieve it or whether it would be better to invest those funds in programmes that already exist in that area if you want to in the region. The first programme in cultural cooperation in the region was led by me personally in the restoration of archaeological cultural heritage, it is a Council of Europe programme, the Ministry of the Ministry will know what it is and I know what I am talking about. In terms of cultural identity, you have countless records on UNESCO's list which are the fruit of the work of professional services, but since we cannot understand in this short time how a foundation should function in promoting what is declared a goal, which I understand, then I strongly propose a thematic session of the committee. I believe you'll agree to further explain that to you. I really can't talk about the recovery of shipbuilding at this point, and I don't want to mix it up with this or tell you what happened in 2003, although I love history very much, we could really... I graduated from it, so I can talk about it just as well. But if it's all true, it's completely unclear to me why there's no Ministry of Science, that's what I'm wondering. So allow a certain small dose of interest to say so, rather than... and the skeptics to clear these things up. [[You don't understand.]] And you check whether in all ministries today the criteria are respected as at the Ministry of Culture, start with the foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38921	The honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh will respond. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38922	Dear fellow Mesic, since you did not speak as representative Jasen Mesic, but as a representative of the HDZ club, make sure that my story of hypocrisy has nothing to do with you because I did not speak to you personally, but if you want, we could open the topic very, very broadly because you mentioned the distribution of funds for the needs of Croatian cultural programmes abroad. Well, I'd very much like an independent commission to get a job to analyze what has been done in the last few years, and what happened in 2012. How and in what way did it actually break down with the practice that was in the past. It would be very interesting to see where they went but the big money that went nominally through a programme to support cultural creation and preserve the national identity of Croats abroad, especially in BiH. I hope that during this term of office, I will experience such a thing and then we will talk. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38923	Thank you very much. Next came the replica by the respected representative, Jozo Radoš.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38924	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague, Beus Richembergh, I fully support all your arguments regarding the vindication and winnings of the foundation of this foundation. As for HDZ and the reaction of HDZ colleagues, nothing more than in terms of preservation, in terms of support you cannot expect except for the restraint they have directed because it is still a matrix from the 1990s that no one else can talk about any Croatian topics, especially to organise such trusts other than themselves. So in that sense they live in the first half of the 1990s. And when you talked about all possible rehabilitation investments that this government is making by comparing it with the funds that could be used to promote the culture that my colleague Mesic was talking about, so you talked about the recovery of hospitals weighing about 5 billion kuna and the recovery of shipyards, etc. Then I will also mention the deficit of the state budget that has been reduced by 6 billion kuna, so if only hundreds of them were used to promote culture in this form or another, then it would be 60 million kuna a year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38925	Thank you very much. In your replica especially on the budget deficit will probably be answered by the distinguished representative Beus Richembergh.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38926	I'll repeat my colleague Radoš, on the trail and your thinking that you've been referring to mine, so let's say that my colleague Mesic said that the funds were meant for archaeological research this year were reduced to a level of one million with three. Now imagine, compare three million to one-fifth of the resources that are now going to the health system's recoverys, so a billion. Do you know what we could do with a billion kunas when it comes to archaeology? We could have explored all the archaeological findings in the Republic of Croatia, we could have explored the Salon in which it lived according to some estimates of 60,000 people, which so far has been investigated only 4% of its surface area, 4% investigated by Don Frane Bulić, and 4% were investigated in the construction of the Split bypass. So 8% of the total area of one city of 60,000 inhabitants that was larger than Herculaneum and of Pompeii together we have so far been investigated. Why? Because we have to invest our resources in some other black holes in this system, not where we might find a new Apoxyomen. With these resources, we could resuscitate all the cultural goods that were killed in the war, but also build all the museums that were planned. With these resources, we could lift from the ashes everything that was killed in the war, including our key arguments in the development of cultural tourism. And we'd still have at least 500 million left. Mr. Radosh, the numbers are immeasurable, terrible, but the facts are what they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38927	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Duja Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38928	Dear Mr. President, fellow Beus, you live outside this life, outside of this time in space, you float. You don't see what the problem is. You create a new foundation, we can call it an association because the association or trust content is the same, in conditions when people starve, in conditions where we have no health care in the budget. You want to stop the health care. Cancel health, terminate the Ministry of Health. What are you talking about here? But you said why are we so, we're here now I'm speaking for myself, why are we expressing the reserve? Well, because it's a new cost. What's it for? Nothing. We have a sufficiently large institutional framework for our cultural activity within the state in the broadest sense that we do not need this. I am deeply convinced that this is not for anything but for the infatuation of some of the men who lost their jobs there. Or someone's friends or mistresses maybe. I want to be rude if you want. And now you're transferring the debate to state relations, to budget allocations. We're here saying this is just, in my opinion, unnecessary business. And a new additional cost in terms of Croatia squirming in debt and when it cannot satisfy, we have a million and 300 thousand poor. We don't have any money for this. If we have something, let's put it in these institutional frameworks that Mr Mesic spoke in. There are so many, if something bad has been invested, or given in the wrong way, you correct it like this government, give it the right way, within the same framework. And nothing else, there's no politics in our debates, no demagogy, no bad intentions. Please, nice.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38929	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Goran Beus Richembergh will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38930	I'm not sure, colleague Marasovic, that I have the tools and skills to prove to you that I don't live in space. So I'm not going to get into that. Yeah, any new idea costs, anything can be declared a new cost, any new cost can be controlled, anything that's wrongly planned can be cut, but you know what can't be? You can't get back what was stolen, that's the problem. We now have to resuscitate what was created as a huge black hole in the system, sucking money out of public funds. If it hadn't been for that, my dear colleague Marasovic wouldn't have talked about this at all today. If it hadn't been for that robbery, that it wasn't an estimate, that only in the financing of the Homeland War of 16 billion, about 5 to 6 billion were stolen, that it wasn't an estimate, that only in the last 10 years, about 40 billion euros were drawn from this country. If it wasn't for the fact that it was determined in court, if it hadn't been for twice, we could have talked about it. Can you imagine this foundation in its first year of operation having those resources that you spent painting tunnels twice? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38931	I'd like to pray that we stick to the topic, because we're talking about culture, not tunnels. So I would, and I would ask that there be peace in the hall, I would ask that we stick to the Rules of Procedure, and the Rules of Procedure say that we always talk about the subject. We would now move on to the next club of representatives, which is on behalf of the HDSSB, the distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38932	Here, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Mr. Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. Here are the predecessors who said a lot, the minister defended the position of this foundation proposal. And I would refer to a few perhaps topics that are not mentioned, for example the name of the foundation "Croatian House", two directorys, one Croatian second is the house, the Croatian house, could be placed, for example, by name and Croatia as an adjective, so the Croatian house, so to know that this is the Croatian house, not the noun of Croatia, the noun of houses next to each other, I don't know exactly what the idea is. Either Croatia in heart, or Croatia in mind or hunting Croatia, and not Croatia and the house standing next to each other as if someone had set them up, so that they might not happen to belong to each other. So that's when it comes to the very name of the foundation that's listed in the proposal. I don't know, like this, like a great Croatian house. I would join in on behalf of the HDSSB club to those who consider it to be a good idea, that such ideas at the moment are not and such a foundation of the Republic of Croatia is not simply needed. The Republic of Croatia is now 23 years old, the Republic of Croatia is now on the EU threshold, the Republic of Croatia has achieved and created cultural, social, economic and connective areas with both Europe and the world, and has held hundreds and thousands of exhibitions and cultural and social events without one such foundation. According to which, at the moment, perhaps she is indeed, this foundation will not require any more significant resources and some significant costs at least at this first moment of the draft. But the intensity is visible both in explanation and later in some articles that it is actually an idea to slowly start, and then we will start setting up branches, and then we will start spreading the trust, of course all on public funds. I just don't think this is the time and that it's the Republic of Croatia at this economic and social moment where the Republic of Croatia is, it's just too much, it's just another thing. I will also remind you that the Republic of Croatia is one of not so many EU countries that has its own Ministry of Culture, only culture. There are a whole series of countries in the EU that don't only have the Ministry of Culture solo. So we also gave as a society and as a state a certain weight to the concept of culture and culture, and we have and we felt rich enough to have just the Ministry of Culture. And it has its own resors, and its structure, and its long-standing work and tradition, and thousands and thousands of joints are intertwined, and through various exhibitions, and concerts, and promotions, and events that are constantly happening throughout Europe. And now we come up with an idea, let's cut off all these joints and all those joints that exist today, all of them, and we won't be aware of a trust that will then carry it on to the state. What are you doing that for? I can't quite understand it, don't understand it, here I am not into culture, but here as a citizen of the Republic of Croatia and as a representative I don't really understand the idea at all, and especially not comparing the "Croatia House" Foundation with the French Institute, I think who has a tradition that's quite old, and who has its own structure, which has its huge budgets and I think they are, as if, I don't know our Ministry of Foreign Affairs compare it with the State Department, so we'll draw some conclusions as to how the Croatian Ministry of Foreign Affairs will function crucially for us the State Department to be some kind of framework that we will deal with. It's about a comparison when you take it I don't know the French Institute, so we pull it as a parallel in our thinking of a foundation called the Croatian House. There were also mentions of the issue of cultural identity and of the protection of national interests. Why the cultural identity of the Croatian people is a question of Croatian national interests and it needs to be protected, it needs to be developed, it needs to be sought a way to promote this integrity, but it also needs to be aware of this moment and at this moment and with these resources that we have actually one such foundation that will be financed exclusively from public sources but will therefore make another step actually on the side that will further analyse certain contacts that have been established directly among people so far, among institutions in the Republic. Outside the Rh, we find it completely unnecessary. Maybe if there weren't those black holes that one of the predecessors mentioned, the black holes in the health care that someone mentioned, the black holes that we may have had and the times that we were responsible enough and determined enough to carry out structural reforms so that we don't do it ourselves, or dig them up, like we did for about two billion and even more in health because we weren't prepared to carry out structural reforms, but those black holes in the economy really have nothing to do with the culture budget, or with this trust that we're talking about right now. Therefore, the HDSSB Club proposes simply to withdraw the proposal of this foundation, to develop it at some happy moment when there really is a lot of money in Croatia and when the cultural public, which is not now the case in the public debate, is going to support something like this at all and has now failed to support it again with this proposal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38933	Thank you very much. Your exposure caused a series of replicas. The first is the distinguished representative Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38934	Thank you very much, Vice President. My dear colleague, I listened very carefully to your presentations, and I liked the fact that you spoke in some way about the subject. Because you know, I think it's much smarter that we actually go to a thematic session between the two readings whenever the second reading is because we obviously have a lot of questions that can be asked out of this. At this thematic session, it would also be good to discuss what effects already existing cultural foundations are new in an independent cultural scene that has now been existing for two years and can be seen from certain parameters whether the foundation is the right way to declare objectives. I kind of don't understand the stated goals, but I don't understand that this is the right methodology and I don't think it is and I don't think it is. But what's also good is that when we talk about culture that we're really talking about culture so that we don't politicize nonsense, that we don't answer for the lines of nonsense because that's why we're just showing our esteemed colleague that we don't know about the question of culture that we're replicating about. Let's not talk about the 90s because it's obviously the easiest thing to do when there's no basic knowledge about the subject we're discussing today, or about the bill we're discussing today. This is a colleague for culture a bigger problem than any lack of funds, than any legal proposal, the problem is the ignorance from which the politicisation arises and then here it lists both on shipbuilding and on health and on the 1990s and on cultural identity, and in fact there is no systemic knowledge about any segment of culture, let alone the cultural identity that should be promoted outside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38935	Thank you very much. The respected representative Drazen Djurovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38936	Yeah, for a little while. I'm sorry that there are no people you've actually spoken to in your replica at the moment, but in any case, I also support your idea that you are in this further discussion on the committee responsible, to have an additional debate, and perhaps even a little more quality solution.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38937	Thank you very much. The next is a replica of the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38938	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Djurovic mentioned at one point that he does not actually see a direct connection and need today for this law on this foundation Croatian house. However, when it is put into that one political context, then it is seen that the rulings need it today to justify the supposed 761 thousand Croatian citizens being wiped out of the voters list, which are mostly, most of it being people living abroad so that some alibi would do so. On the other hand, I'm hearing nonsense like this that's been spent 16 billion, and I don't know what $16 billion was said, and we have a statement from the state's attorney's office that led to investigations in the beginning of 2000, where it was said that we have two sources of weapons purchased, or spent $100 million, 100 million through these crisis stations, and 400 million through the Ministry of Defence and, therefore, the Ministry of Finance has spent half a billion dollars in total, and here they're talking about 5 billion stolen from those 16. So it's out of our minds in this House this way to present these data and thus to speak and plus all of the other data that has been presented here has no mild connection to reality.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38939	Thank you very much. The esteemed representative Drazen Djurovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38940	Thank you. Well, here's the professor you see. It's a matter of optics. Like a matter of optics when there were lead times? We often hear from some of them some of the hard lead times in the early '90s. To me, the beginning of the 1990s was the years of pride and glory, the most beautiful times, and the lead times were the 1980s. but it is a question of how anyone has experienced what time, and I'm afraid our optics are quite different, even unfortunately here in the Croatian Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38941	Thank you very much. I'd ask everyone again to stick to the subject. We've moved far into history, closer history, meteorology, tunnels and other things, so let's stick to the subject, and I don't doubt that the replica of the distinguished representative Joza Radosh will stick to the topic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38942	Mr. Vice President, I wouldn't want to be a revolutionary in that sense, so I'm going to be on the trail of what was discussed here if I replicated what was beyond the subject, then I can't be on the subject myself, unfortunately. But colleagues Đurović, therefore you are talking to a colleague here about the funds, of course it is justified to care about the funds but to talk about that several hundred thousand kunas or maybe one million kunas in a trust fund that can be conditional on their business, cause large profits for the Republic of Croatia in the tourist area, in the economic area of cultural exchange. One part of the activities of this foundation is to meet a series of needs that the Republic of Croatia meets or enables outside Croatians. This can also be part of the budget only that these tasks will be dealt with more systematically than they may have been before. This attempt to establish a system that is likely to allow financial gains for Croatia that will be incomparably greater than the investments themselves. So you have the right to think in such a way but it is quite deplaced to place it as the main emphasis of your remarks and objections regarding the establishment of this foundation. You're talking about black holes that have nothing to do with this debate. The debate on money was opened by you and your colleagues before you, and in that context there was an open debate on these black holes. But let me say at least you as a representative of the HDSSB Club are invited to talk about it when someone is not talking about the subject.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38943	Thank you very much. The respected representative Drazen Djurovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38944	When it comes to caring for Croatian emigrants, for example, there are Matica Croatian emigrants, we have hundreds of NGOs. I think we have a pretty strong civil society and a series of associations and many programs. Now how successful we are in that, that's another thing and how much we really succeed in those goals that we set for ourselves. But there is no argument in this material why they would ever have achieved what guarantee that this foundation will achieve any of those objectives that it promotes. On the other hand, when it comes to finance, so I think the social climate and financial crisis is so deep that we simply no longer have the right, regardless of what positive goals we have highlighted, to additionally burden Croatian citizens with the state budget, public funds with any agencies, institutions, foundations, institutions, institutions, and that we have to go towards their shutting down, and that I think at this point that citizens expect us to do so. I think they're expecting it, you think they're not expecting it, but they're expecting it and we're still opening it. We will see each other in the local elections, and we will see each other in parliamentary elections, as the citizens expected of us will say.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38945	Thank you very much. The next replica is the respected representative of Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38946	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President. My colleague Đurović, I would like to rephrase to you that you are not given at all, in a way you have bought into the topic of black holes in healthcare that is not the topic of this agenda point. I am truly for strictly respecting the agenda and discussions and replicas in the context of the topic. And then my experience in this House whenever you put out a replica that has some argument if there's no counterargument or no real argument in the reply to the replica, then you start talking and someone in the past time takes something that he didn't need and then says that's why we have the right to throw away now without control and without need. Now that's what Mr. Beus said but for him it's probably higher mathematics he's not able to figure out, to say someone was taking in the past time that he didn't need and we based on that we have the right to throw ourselves away. There is only a message here, there is no state of money to establish new associations or foundations because the people starve in Croatia to a good extent because Croatia is in a deficit. It's over. And as for health care, which has reopened the HNS, there are no colleagues with no health holes. The truth should be told and it is the only truth that the health system in Croatia is laid... the basis that everyone has the right to everything and it costs so much and so much. The Croatian state has no money for this than it has 5 billion less. We rescheduled 7 billion, we HDZ when it came to power in 2004 in health care. And if the system doesn't change then it's going to be 5 billion minus again in a year. The system needs to be changed and the current government doesn't want to not be able to have power or I don't know what. It's a response to health care and don't...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38947	I would remind again that the theme is "Croatian House", not health care, and will respond to the replica of the distinguished representative Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38948	So here's MP Marasovic myself, unlike you who believe that you should strictly stick to the Rules of Procedure, and you like not to stick to it, I think you should let the debate be much wider than the Rules of Procedure, and I'm trying to stick to it, here. And otherwise, I agree with you in most cases, but here's the fact that Vice President of the Parliament is this kind of good, I'm not going to continue on with my health. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38949	Thank you very much. And the last replica is the esteemed representative of Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38950	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, I am sorry that this House did not continue the debate on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia where colleagues from different political options presented their ideas, there was a deputy minister, without insult, carrying out such false information that it was a disaster. However, some who are unable to discuss the subject and argued and with these arguments help their minister go to topics that simply do not exist. Col. Djurovic, you may have seen in the Croatian budget 5 billion kuna for the rehabilitation of Croatian health care. Did you see that? Did anyone see that? This does not exist in the Croatian budget. There is no such thing in the Croatian budget. However, instead of helping the minister to come up with more resources in different thinkings because these gambling funds you know very well how everyone fights for it, we went to some topic that simply has nothing to do with common sense, but a topic that has been thrown away to cover up all these bad things that happen in Croatia. I would like health care to show exactly how much and what debt and that someone also says that the debt next year will not be again a billion, two kunas because simply this kind of health care and this kind of health care management can't be run for this money. But I say, some people who like to politicise about everything, I sincerely hope that Ms. Minister Opera "Nikola Shubić Zrinski" will be on the list of cultural heritage that Croatia will promote outside and I sincerely hope that it will not be like '84. when that performance was restored in Split... nationalism and sent some people to get kicked out of school because of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38951	Thank you very much. The respected representative Drazen Djurovic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38952	I repeat once again, I would like, if nothing else, that trust to be called "Loving Croatira" instead of the two names "Croatia" and "Hart" standing next to each other. So let's show what this foundation needs or that already some notion of culture is there, even though I still think it's simply not necessary right now. There is no rational explanation, there is really no reason why this is needed, and the argument against the establishment of any association, any foundations, any agencies with the 200-thousands we have in Croatia has more than it can count in one debate of 15 minutes. And let me remind you, let's not set up new ministries to explore ore and waste time, but let's really focus on those goals that we have and those problems that exist. So creating form for form is really unnecessary. The Ministry of Culture said, however, we are one of a number of EU countries, that is, a lot of EU countries do not have an independent Ministry of Culture, we only have a permanent Ministry of Culture, we have resources, we have resources. Therefore, let the Ministry of Culture take responsibility for these tasks that it seeks to partially transfer to this new foundation, and we also have a whole series of institutions, institutions, offices, queens and the like that which already exist, which are the ones who behave there. In addition, we have thousands and thousands of contacts and a system of connections that has been established between individuals and institutions in Croatia and outside Croatia, and this simply does not need this. Short and simple.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38953	Thank you very much. Now, on behalf of the SDP Representatives' Club, the distinguished representative Ivo Jelusic will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38954	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, the Honorable Madam Minister with his associates. There's a law before us that I didn't expect would be this much of a controversy, this many replicas. I thought we'd agree more or less, except for a certain part, in certain segments, to make certain remarks for improvement and that's how it's going to end. The aim of this law is to make the Croatian House a better promotion of Croatian culture in the world, and I don't see that, I think it's a commendable job and that it should be done. Whether in this way as suggested here, we think so. If you need to improve, we're ready to talk about it. At least this law is why I'm surprised, my colleague Tudjman spoke of it earlier, that this government is working to justify, in some way, what he said, I'm going to try to quote, for erasing 760,000 Croats from the voters' register. I don't know, first of all, where that figure came from, it's the only one who can associate me with 760,000 Croats living in BiH according to the last census, probably thinking about it. That's neither why this is nor why it came to this. So no Croatian citizen, every citizen of the Republic of Croatia who has Croatian citizenship, and every Croat can win that Croatian citizenship has the right to vote and to vote actively and passively, can choose and be chosen. And every Croatian citizen, no matter where he lives on the globe of the earth, can be chosen, can be chosen and not deleted from the Election Register, should only report that he wants to. Why, because we have an interesting thing that is very small, low, we are talking about 3.5 million Croats outside of Croatia, and we know that it has never voted more than a few tens of thousands.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38955	I'd like to pray we stick to the subject after all. I've prayed more than once.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38956	I'm sticking to the subject. Why didn't you warn whoever was talking about this when he caused this problem not to stick to the subject. Then let me... well. Therefore, it is not... that the law is passed because no one's right is disputed and, of course, I am surprised that this argument is used at all, especially not by the people and by the party whose result is their policy that the number of Croats, for example, is halved in BiH. We'll see that unfortunately on the census this year, unfortunately, I'm afraid that's the result. This is the result of so much concern and protection of Croats outside Croatia, especially those in BiH. At the end of the game, there are goals, and that is how politics is at the end of the game, and the result of that policy is unfortunately so. Therefore, I am surprised that you want to input something in that sense to this authority. But to return to the provisions of the law. So in the world, Croatia is recognizable by many good things. Unfortunately, she's been through some bad guys, and the world remembers us by war, unfortunately. But they remember us for example by good sports results. We all look forward to Croatia being fourth on FIFA's football ladder. Unfortunately, we are not recognizable in the world by our economic achievements, but in culture, I think we have something to show for it. Therefore, why not show what Croatia has, although this Croatian house is a tool that will make Croatia’s culture even better recognized, it is even better to promote the world. Why not? And this law is, in that sense, a means to come to that. So, if that's the case, why don't we back it up? The fact that much larger nations have their own institutes... etc. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We may not have the strength to do something like that, but in our terms, under our circumstances, we're going to try something like that. What I would like to warn and what to do now is make sure that there is no overlap between the Croatian house and already existing institutions and institutions that we already have and which are in some way dealing with this segment, especially when it comes to Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia because it is mentioned here, so in law that in a certain part of what is logical should be included there and Croats living outside the Republic of Croatia. So, we have the State Office for Croats outside Croatia, we have established. We have a Croatian queen of emigrants that has been functioning for decades and should only see that there is no overlapping of jurisdiction. So let the office deal with Croats outside Croatia, primarily their status issues, status issues where they live, status issues in Croatia, economic issues, political problems of these Croats etc. May the Croatian queen continue to deal with what she has been up to now, which is by fostering and maintaining Croatian national identity in all its segments of language, culture, etc. the Croatians who are outside the Republic of Croatia, and let the Croatian house therefore mainly focus on promoting and promoting Croatian culture in the world and then among the Croats living outside, because we certainly expect that they will be the first to respond to any cultural event that is organised anywhere if they live there. But also, by promoting Croatian culture, it promotes both their cultural and artistic creations that they have in this sense, so that there is only a certain distribution, so that there is no overlapping of common jobs. For example, language learning is spoken. Learning language now deals with the Ministry, also deals with Matica Hrvatska. I see the Croatian House will also be in business. I don't mind, but to distribute. So let the ministries deal with our students who are in the regular system of education, let the queen deal with our young people and others who live outside, who want to further perfect their language, and let the Croatian house deal with those therefore not Croats who want to learn Croatian as a foreign language. So, just so there's no overlapping activity. It's good that the board of directors will be people from culture and will work without compensation. What is it, I also made that observation on the board, the session of the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia. I think it's too narrowly defined the area of action of potential members of the board of directors. It says, I will try to quote: " Representatives, representatives, civil society organisations in culture and public figures who are directed to the development of civil society can run. So it only comes down to civil society. I think that there should be an extension of the possibility that inside, people who are generally not only in civil society can be run in culture. Therefore, why someone who is an employee of the facility,... theatre academy, etc. You wouldn't be able to run out of this if we were to interpret it so closely that you couldn't. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Therefore, that civil society in some way extends or deletes or puts civil society and other cultural workers, etc. It is good that, as we heard from the minister, there will be no new employment and new staff to fund as many as there will be no spending on people, but on programmes and that is good. Finally, if this Croatian house helps promote Croatian culture as a new tool, then we have something to show the world. We're not as inferior as we might be inferior here in some other areas. I think that's good. And I hope that finally in the second reading, by respecting my suggestions, suggestions and respecting the suggestions and suggestions of well-intentioned and other colleagues and colleagues, we will probably adopt this law in both the first and second readings. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38957	Thank you very much. And your exposure has caused more replicas. The first is the respected representative of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38958	Thank you, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. About what Mr. Jelusic said. First, I quoted the numbers of Minister Bauk. He boasted that the voter list was reduced to 76,000 Croatian citizens. That's what I said. On the other hand, he also said that if I am not mistaken that there is a right to vote abroad, that it has applied and could only vote 2,300 people. I may be that number, but between 2300 people, 2500 people. So it's a depravation of rights, basic voting rights, elementary human rights for 700 and a few thousand people. And that's a fact you can't overwrite or change. Theoretically, someone has the right, but you take it away from him, if you were consistent then you would change the Constitution and advocate a written right to vote, not what you imposed in the Constitution together in the previous amendment, that it could only be voted in the DKPs. That's one thing. And the other thing, this substantiation that this policy is hypocritical, that thanks to the official Croatian politics from BiH is gone so much and so many Croats I ask you the question that no such policy has been conducted and against large-scale Serbian aggression, as today the Croats would remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina, and those who about 150 000 do not live in Republika Srpska and then attribute it to Croatian politics, I think it is an extremely ignorant and historical fact and an ideological position as Mr Djurovic says, the issue of the optics, so I doubt that we will solve it in two minutes, but until we settle it as a state we will not move at some reasonable pace in the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38959	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Ivo Jelusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38960	Dear Comrade Tudjman, I will repeat no one has been deprived of the electoral right, the less it reported, the less it applied, but it wasn't taken from them. According to your logic, we could say that only in these elections have 80% of Croatian voters taken away, the right to... They didn't respond. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] It is one thing whether people want to respond, have not responded in Croatia either, 89% have not responded more abroad. But everyone has a right in Croatia and so on. Therefore, I repeat every Croatian citizen no matter where he lives has the right to go to elections, no one can take it or want it taken away. The fact that he doesn't want to apply is his business, but nobody took it away from him. As for politics towards Bosnia and Herzegovina, of course it was necessary to fight against Serbia's... both in Croatia and Bosnia and Herzegovina. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But also protect the full interests of Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the goal, I think it is Croatian... It should be and should be today. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] To keep the Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina as much as possible and to make their political, economic and any other position as possible. I'm not sure that the policy that was led in that direction was going, we don't have time in the replica to discuss it, but Mr. Tudjman after Croatia was freed, after the Storm, why we went to conquer other people's areas, I'll list: The tree where the Croats were not even 1%, Glamoc, Šipovi, Mrkonjic, and not to free the areas where the Croats lived in the majority. And don't tell me it wasn't politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38961	Okay, here's what we're gonna do. I ask you all nicely, I am aware that we are ahead of local elections and want to score points, but I ask you nicely and remind you that the topic of this debate is "Croatian House". So please let us all concentrate on questions of Croatian Houses, promotions of Croatian culture etc. because we have now closed a circle of tunnels, through the purchase of weapons and the list of voters, to Bosnia and Herzegovina. And it doesn't have much to do with the Croatian House. So here are any further speakers to focus on the subject after all. And the next speaker will be the replica of respected representative Zoran Vinkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38962	Here I am not even going to subculture. Well, I may be younger, lighter than my colleague Đurovic, who justifiably asked the question, colleague Jelusic, the issue of functioning, the financing of this foundation. So it is not only necessary to create this foundation or institution, but it is necessary to see the future, future and functioning of such an institution, and we really advocate a broader debate, not only until this second reading, but also the Ministry of Science, as well as the Ministry of Tourism, which also through the promotion of Croatia in tourism, so to say the area, promotes and culture among other things, not only promotes the Slavonian tower or wine, or Prošek, or Terran for which we will fight, but also promotes culture. It is clear to me that what happened last year cannot be repeated when we were obviously looking for holes in the budget to maintain those days of Croatian culture in Paris. And perhaps it is necessary, there is the minister, indeed, to give us the details of how many visitors there were on these days of Croatian culture, were they only Croatians who were in France, or did the exhibition see half of France and only really have a promotion? I say it not for the sake of local choices, but first of all for the way this foundation works, and now I think we don't have to fight this trench battle so much now, the opposition, but first of all, I'd say maybe even a good idea to work it out in a way that it works. That they don't stay behind really black holes because we're all in space, because planet Earth is in space, in space.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38963	Thank you very much. The answers will be from the respected representative Jelusic, please. You won't? Thank you. I saw it wrong. The next replica is the esteemed MPs of Anna Lovrin. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38964	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not be able to satisfy your request to stick to the agenda theme, because the replica means the answer to the presentation of the previous speaker, the previous speaker did not stick to the subject, so I answer in that part. But to maybe stay in culture for a while then I'll ask him if he might have, and he probably heard about a fable about fox and storks? Then it was about the Croats outside the country of Croatia, that they were given the right to vote, that they had it, that no one had taken anything from them, and that they could vote whenever they wanted. The figures best speak, in 2000, went to the election of 127 000 Croatian citizens who do not have a residence in the Republic of Croatia. After constitutional changes in which you actually conditioned that Croats should be determined outside the country that they can only vote in diplomatic and consular representations, enter the Croatian Constitution and limit themselves to 3 MPs. After that, in the 2011 parliamentary elections, 23 000 went to the polls, watch out, 27,000 fell to 23,000, so I guess they're clear, so I guess you understand why. The same reason why this generation couldn't peck with its beak on a shallow plate. Similarly, the people who join the end of the end could not pay a trip of 100 or 200 km to come to vote because they probably did not have the opportunity, although they would gladly vote and wish to vote. After you have introduced the last legal obligation to apply in these elections for the European Parliament, you were registered only 2000 or 2300 Croatian voters outside the country. Therefore, you have legally given the possibility in general, but in fact, it is the fat, fat, impossible for Croats outside the country to vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38965	The honourable representative Ivo Jelusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38966	I'm glad you agree with me that the right is not denied but people have not applied. In doing so, you ignore or deliberately ignore the fact that they can apply by the very act of coming to the polls, so no one who lives outside Croatia had to apply. That's what I can do that day. But people just didn't want to go out. You insist on HDZ under allegations of Croatian interests, for Croatia to have as many representatives as possible because you were mostly receiving them and there used to be 10 people sitting in this House who were filling your club. That's why you advocated, not because of the Croats and what you care about the Croats outside Croatia. After all, people were so disappointed in your policies for Croatia because they were loyal to you to surprise me that at all now they want to go out after what you did with them. It's a fact and it's true. They are first of all disappointed in you and your former concern under quotes of them. And otherwise, if it wasn't like that, look at it today. I am for representatives of Croats sitting here in the Assembly to represent these people who chose them, to represent Croats outside Croatia, not to deepen the HDZ Club. Why are they sitting in your club people who are chosen by Croats outside Croatia? Why do they have an independent club? Why don't they represent these people? Why do they have to step up the club of any political parties? Why are we using these people again? Why do you keep using these people as your voting machine? You only need Croats outside Croatia, but I hope the Croats finally understand that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38967	Dear Representative Jasen Mesic will be the next speaker with a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38968	Well, I don't know, I'm Mr. Vice President, and I expected my colleague Jelusic, who is witnessing a friend of culture, to talk more about the charms than politics. That would prove my commitment to cultural identity in some way, but unfortunately, here's what we haven't done this time. There may be more hearing when we finally call this thematic session. I hope that Mr Jelusic will be present and that he will know exactly how and how to protect both cultural identity and Croats in Bih who are left there for how many of them are left because of the great Serbian aggression and that we will then be able to find a way to do this. I really think that by raising questions for a pay phone on behalf of the Club about some things that don't make sense, we're devoting the objective of this bill. I am truly deeply convinced and I really appeal that in some way we should try to respect this culture that is already so financially cut, which everyone knows about, as well as football, and we will see how much we will be in this thematic debate when we improve this law and see where it goes and bring some direction that I believe is in all our interests. Let's talk about magic instead of that. I know that you appreciate that you know the cultural events of the Bosnian Posavina as you know that I know the coming, regardless of what I was born and raised in Zagreb, but I highly appreciate the cultural contribution of these people. That's what we need to help with. I think we're quite clear that they are not there, above all, because it was a fierce Serb aggression. Let's get back to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38969	Dear representative Ivo Jelusic came forward for the answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38970	A fellow Mesic about your perception of my cultural identity in my as much as I visit any of the cultural ones, I don't want to delude with you because when you, when you talk about someone else, talk about yourself the most, this time you talk about yourself more than you talk about me. Another thing you forget, but maybe you don't forget. You haven't forgotten who started the debate. We are indeed discussing a Croatian house that should promote Croatian culture abroad but the debate on other topics began your representative, your colleague who is sitting behind you, Mr Tudjman, when he said that this law is being passed because we have deleted them from the voters' register. He started it. Now, I can't keep my mouth shut because it's simply a lot of your praise to take care of these people, the people you've brought into such a difficult position thanks to your boasting and your abuse of those people for political purposes. If you really want to truly help these people, then let us milk them but not by bonding with this party or that party that we are going to invite them to this political gathering, but by really wanting to help them honestly. I hope that this Croatian house will, in that sense, look, look and act surly rather than narrowly partyically as it has been, unfortunately, in your main side.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38971	The latest replica of the respected representative Duja Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38972	Your Honor, Mr. President. My colleague Jelusic again wonders why so many reserves. I ask you and why you didn't see it, actually you know it but you don't want to admit what counterpart Mesic said. There is no control of the programme or control of the spending of funds from a serious institution. It's the establishment of a trust fund whose director it's gonna be and he's gonna spend whatever money he wants. And then they'll send Rado Sherbedzhi from Brijuni to Skadarli to sort of represent Croatian culture there. Why not? What are the control mechanisms? None. Why are we setting this up? For nothing, for nothing. Is there a need? There isn't. Do we have any money for that? We don't. Do we have new jobs? We don't. And we're practically wasteless without need and everything I said we're going into something. And you're defending it? You cannot defend this to the Croatian public. And I'm really glad that television doesn't transmit and that we're talking this intimately here, so you can believe that I'm telling you honestly, not for any reason or reason. And about these Croats in Bosnia, I would be ashamed of myself if I were SDP, I'd be ashamed. You know why? That is why when negotiations were for the EU you said or will be reduced by Croats to so many votes to three or no Croatia in the EU. That was the equivalent for you to join the EU. Hate for the Croats in BiH and even out there, hatred for it cannot be explained by anything but hatred for the primal nothingness. There's no reason for such hatred. It would be fair between us, that people say I don't know if a lot of people here have been sued a lot in Parliament to say it's fair as it is for national minorities and for Croats outside or around there. That would be fair somehow, wouldn't it, and that would make sense. There was nothing important to you that the Croats had no right to vote and it wasn't... because you hate it. And there's no other explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38973	Thank you very much. The honourable representative Ivo Jelusic will respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38974	My colleague Marasovic has no hatred for anyone, especially the Croats you speak of from BiH who have suffered enough to hate them in particular. Well, I don't hate you guys from HDZ who brought a lot of evil to this economy and this society, let alone that I hate people who, not that they didn't do anything wrong, but they got screwed. And regarding the control of the spending of this money, you probably didn't read the law or if you did not like to say it, there is, the report is submitted to the Government's report and financial and programming on spending. The report is therefore submitted every year. So it's there. So there's no reason to doubt that no one will control how these money is spent. It says very nicely that it is one of the duties of the board of directors. Therefore, it will be controlled, a report will be submitted for everything that will be spent on concerts, on exhibitions, on anything that will be spent. But to what really happens. Unlike you from HDZ when you spend and what doesn't happen, at concerts that didn't happen, we now see it from the trial of these, we won't at least do it but we'll control the costs for those concerts and those events that are really going to be held.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38975	Thank you very much. The next speaker will be on behalf of Croatian Labour Party MP Nikola Vuljanic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38976	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Today there's something strange in the air, everyone's aggressive no matter what the subject of people is. Today this reminded me of a Nazi official who said when I hear the word culture, I hold onto a revolver. Everyone here today grabs onto guns without, I think, no need and no occasion other than the local election at the door, it's the only reason. Proposal for a Law on the Foundation "Croatian House – Croatian House" I really read the Croatian house and I think you should stand the Croatian house, Croatian Labourists consider it a good idea. We need to keep our values. We don't have many, half of them are stolen, half of them are persistent, some of them are left, and we need to keep them safe. Our cultural values are among what no one stole, I guess there was no one interesting, that's what makes us who we are. Without language, heritage and culture, we have no roots, we are nowhere and nothing but empty nationalists and we do not want to be. And that's why any idea like this can help our identity in a united Europe get its rightful place. I didn't realize, I may have misunderstood, if I misunderstood, then I suggest that it be corrected, I didn't realize that the Croatian House Foundation should be an institution with palm, secretary, front door and headmaster and stuff like that. I realized that it should be a matrix of events abroad, primarily through which to affirm what we're talking about. Two hundred thousand kunas, of course, are no money, but I suppose that 200 thousand kunas should also be used in the programs that this foundation "Croatian House" will implement and will be presented in the world. Every so many exhibitions take place in the European Parliament, presentations I do not know what aspects of culture and small countries. Someone's setting it up, paying for it. I don't know. Maybe that's what diplomatic representations do. If diplomatic representations work, there is no obstacle to this foundation doing so through diplomatic representation, I have thus understood to the Minister, so some cultural attachés will organise an exhibition in the EU to parliament or in the Hungarian Parliament, or I do not know where under an edigo titled "Croatian House". I don't know what's wrong with that, and I don't know why they should object. What should be considered is whether there is a possibility of installing a mechanism into the law with a relatively secure further financing of all these actions. This is now ad hoc, of course, this is now for the first hand and for the start of things but things will get on the swing some of it will of course be able to be financed through long sources and through those that organize, but something won't. And if we want to have such a network of functions in the presentation of culture in the world and in Europe, it must primarily have some security of existence. On the other hand, we can't be so poor, we're not so poor, and we won't be so poor that we can afford not to. If we are so poor then we should accept that proposal that was here today, let's bring in a foreigner for the Prime Minister and foreigners for ministers and change the firm at the border. If we can't afford it, then we really don't have to function as a state. On the other hand, we'll present our cultural heritage, our culture, our language, our art abroad, we'll come up with and we'll talk about whether we're doing enough to have what to present tomorrow. Did we protect the official use of Croatian language in Croatia? We didn't. The two governments rejected the proposal because I don't know what kind of, nationalist, xenophobic, something like that, and it's not. It is not, but it serves this goal of protecting our language here at home is a fundamental thing that we have in order to show it to someone else and be proud of it. How long are we working to protect our cultural heritage? As far as we are working to protect our archaeological heritage, said counterpart Mesic. How long do we work here in Croatia? Well, now let's all better agree together that we'll work more on it here so that tomorrow we can go through any channel, this channel or diplomatic channel or some sixth channel to show the world what we have and what we are. Croatian Labourists will support the proposal that this law goes into further procedure and I hope that the ministry will consider these aspects of which I have spoken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38977	Thank you very much. We have three replicas, Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38978	Thank you. Well, here's Mr. Vuljanic. You've asked the question that it's not safe from this proposal whether it will physically mean that it will be a building, a door, an office, a secretary, a structure. Yeah. It will be a legal person who will have a special board to work on without compensation, and in the bodies will have a manager, the manager will certainly not work alone in the foundation but will have everything that comes with him, so he will form the administration. Yeah, he's gonna have a building, he's gonna have his legal personality, and he's gonna form his own branches in the future. And does the Republic of Croatia have any money for this? So I think I don't know if we as a society can even meet the reality that the Republic of Croatia has no money for nothing and has lived on debt for decades. Is there even a moment when we will be able to face the fact that we as a society find ourselves not to pay back, to live above our options, and that each government, like this one, through debts, only buys a period of its term of office and then send on until they come next. And that I think that the Republic of Croatia has no money for this as well as no money for a lot of things but no government on the wings, and that's a real population buying time, in fact, only survives from mandate to mandate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38979	Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38980	You hear a colleague if that's really what you say, then I would suggest to the minister that she come up with a solution in a bill that would remove and doubt that it would happen, that it wouldn't become an institution with a big door, a doorbell, a bell, a porter, security and other things, and inside, a director, a secretary and a palm tree. If that happens, it's terrible, and then it has nothing to do with what I'm talking about. It's not the same subject. But for the presentation and preservation, and the presentation abroad is part of the preservation of cultural identity and heritage, I don't think we're too poor. That way we'll never be poor. We can never, and we can't be so poor that we say we don't know who we are. Now's not the time to talk about who we are, now we're gonna worry about making tomorrow's lunch. Then we let down all confidence from all Croatian citizens, left, right and center. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38981	Replica, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38982	Dear colleague Vuljanić, I just wanted to say a few things. And these 200,000 kunas, you say there's no money. Do you know how many donations and the entire year for the programme of theatres in Karlovac, or..., do you know how much she gets the viritative theatre in a year of donation from the Ministry, do you know how much she gets the Vinkow or Zadar. It's huge money in culture, I'm afraid. And they're off the programming items. Now, if there are cultural attachés in Brussels and if they're doing presentations there and thank God they're working and they need it, then what do you need a foundation for? If you already have a cultural attaché, at the Ministry of Culture, you have an International Cultural Co-operation Authority, which is a good administration where people who know how to do it and who did it. Then what do you need a trust fund for? To attract new funds? So there's sponsorship... donations. That's number one. And number two, the biggest cultural event in the promotion of Croatia is the Croatian-earth partner of the French cultural zone, which the Ministry of Culture has spent very well and it is not true that only the French have seen because only one exhibit has seen more than 2 million people, Croatians pardon abroad. So she's done very well. There was no foundation, but people from the Ministry of Culture, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the tourist community and the Croatian Chamber of Commerce sat down with it in full cooperation with the menus for individual areas. That's what this is all about, and that's why success has come, because it's been done well and it's been a good time and thank God that success is all over Europe and everyone is talking about it, and other such actions are being organised on the trail. So why do you need that trust d'you already have to go with the initials.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38983	Thank you. Reply to the replica Nikola Vuljanić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38984	Thank you. My colleague Mesic, I have understood the establishment of this foundation as an attempt to (a) target another part of the money in culture in the presentation of Croatian culture abroad and as a b) to create a foundation because it can have money that cannot come into the budget. If I get it wrong, if that's not the way it is, then I'm defending the wrong thing. So I figured out what the minister was talking about, so I figured out what it said. That 200 thousand kuna is a huge amount of money for a regional theatre such as Karlovac or Koprivnica, of course, so that's their entire annual budget, of course, but in relation to the Croatian state budget it's not big money of course. And I think that this topic, especially now from 1.7, to 1.7, and after 1.7, that this topic is really crucial, to give one picture that is not yet filled in in Europe, is still this mosaic on which Croatia has holes, some tiles are missing, and I realized that the establishment of this foundation and these 200,000 ways to fill these hands with cultural content, heritage content, language, etc. by which we will identify ourselves and in a good way join the European family.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38985	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38986	Look, dear colleague, I once again believe that the idea of preserving cultural heritage, presentation and culture and cultural heritage is material, immaterial, because obviously we have done very little in this very near history. I believe that this law should be made more clearly, more precisely written, that certain relations should be defined, that if it goes into the foundation of a trust or whether it should be called otherwise. Here I read today The proposal for a strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Croatia, nowhere in the Tourism Development Strategy there is no promotion of cultural heritage through this kind of foundation and I believe that the Ministry of Tourism should be involved in the promotion of cultural heritage. As for that exhibition in Paris, obviously to say so to the media because obviously nothing bad happened there, the media did not adequately follow what they were supposed to follow, but it was indeed a promotion of Croatian culture. In a similar way, this happens, for example. with the Dionysus Festival in Đakov and Osijek where the art academys are coming across Europe and this media, at least this state is not interested. It is also a promotion of Croatian culture and Croatian Academy, but the media is not interested. So there should also be a certain way far more work done, but with a clear precision of the relations themselves in the foundation. And finally, every Croatian embassy should be a Croatian house because we also make it for the Olympics, etc. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38987	Thank you. Comrade Vuljanić, would you like to answer? No, I don't. Thank you very much. We're moving on to an individual debate. I'm a colleague of Ivan Shuker's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38988	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Madam Minister. I sincerely regret that this debate went in this direction in which she went and because there are quasi experts in this House who are for everyone, and even when they have no argument to support some law, then they go where there is simply no place. What I think is crucial here, which may have been lacking in the opening explanation of what kind of promotions of culture and Croatian and Croatian languages are, above all, for Croats who are not going to talk about Croats in Bosnia and Herzegovina, Vojvodina, Montenegro, Macedonia. They have one specific status, the same speech area. However, here it is said of the Croats in Germany, first of all the third generation, which is unfortunately already slowly moving away, and also to the institutions that these Croats have believed all these years. Unfortunately, it's not our diplomatic representations, it's our Catholic missions, and I'll tell you later why I'm saying it. And then we have Croats in overseas countries, so in North, South America, Australia where the situation is even worse. But again through some kind of organization is it the Croatian Brethren Community somehow preserved that Croatian identity, Croatian culture and everything expensive. So maybe if we were to talk about it that way, maybe some people who were discussing it here today, and maybe they didn't even see this law talk differently. There would be no health care, no shipbuilding, because I think this is a very important topic and a topic that should be discussed and a topic in which we must not behave as we did when constitutional changes were to be made as one of the conditions for entry into the EU and when the key thing for the adoption of these constitutional changes by left-wing political parties was to limit the number of members of the Croatian people in this House to three. So unfortunately today this debate is going a little bit too banalizing, but it's going in that direction somehow. And that's why this law may need to be done the other way. And we can agree that it's a trust, that it's like this, that it's like that. However, if we set a clear goal of what we want and if it is seen out of the law, unfortunately, it is not seen from the law. That might be the basic problem. This law is written technically, but it's not written to explain what it wants to achieve. And the key problem is that's why there's a divergence between things that can't be seen what's going on with him. And the second thing, the composition of the board of directors, unfortunately, points out that we do not want to achieve what I was talking about, and these are Croats in Western Europe, these are Croats in the overseas countries. Because if you in the board of directors in the foundation that should serve them first and foremost, put in civil society members who, unfortunately, are not too attached to culture, and they are nowhere to be donated tomorrow, unfortunately, will not donate to this foundation if we want to attract them, and the foundation is primarily because of them. For behold, if we draw our own culture, if we bring our letter first and foremost to the people of our people, then we will also attract members of the host nation of the state in which we live. But unfortunately with Article 5 and the trust managed by the Management Board in this configuration, we will not do so. You know why? Because, unfortunately, according to this composition, I would not want to offend anyone, but Croats who are in these countries in a certain way despised. It's with all due respect to everyone. That's why we are on the Committee on Croatians outside Croatia suggested that, I hope your deputy handed it to you that this administrative council consisted of these people for a simple reason if this Croatian house was founded, I think the foundation, that they had an intrusion into it. And I'm saying that maybe that's how they thought there would be no debate like this, because this debate unfortunately doesn't go in favor of a point that talks about culture, it doesn't go in favor if we're seen by our Croats outside Croatia. So how are we going to offer them the cultural heritage of Croatia when we act as primitively as some colleagues have acted here today by hitting on me I don't know what. So, and get back to the law. What I'm trying to say and what I don't think is very simple from the experience I've been doing at work. So it is said here that it will be financed in part from gambling fortunately in accordance with the law on gambling. Madam Minister, you know very well that a certain percentage of gambling payments belongs to the funding of certain programs from sports institutions that are fighting certain addictions, associations, etc. You know as well as I do that if you take one prominence to anyone who lays the rights to those means of war. So if you're going to take these 2,000 kunas from here, you're going to have to take them from someone to give them here and you didn't automatically do a good thing, because those funds aren't something new, they're not upgrades to something you have but you took them from someone to give them to someone. And unfortunately, when you look at it and maybe this law lacks to see everything that's being financed from these gambling programs. I certainly, depending on the affinities that few colleagues here in the Parliament would raise their hands to take those funds from any position. Why? I'm just talking about affinities. Anyone would fight for those assets at all. And that's why I say that's not good. Unfortunately, you will challenge the antagonism of those who receive these funds according to what they would not, which, fortunately, should be some sort of all Croatian project. But I'm just pointing to some things that, unfortunately, aren't like that. As for certain techniques, Article 2 of the Foundation is the founder of the Republic of Croatia. The Republic of Croatia has no legal personality, through the president of the state, through the Government of the Republic of Croatia or through some others, through the Parliament, through some other institutions. Therefore, the founder of the foundation is on behalf of the Republic of Croatia the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And then that's something that I say drinks water and has some kind of legal basis. As far as the board's board of directors is concerned, I've already said that. I believe that simply within this board there must be members of the Croatian people for whom we establish this foundation, they must be present. And then ultimately, this foundation is far more necessary to them than to members of some civil society in the Republic of Croatia. For God's sake, they don't need it, they have it all they want, and they don't even know how to consume it as much as they need it. Oh, no? And there's something else I'll end up with. Simply read this in a specific way Article 15. The Management Board shall submit a financial report for the financial year within 60 days. Since it is a non-profit association, the management of accounting and financial operations of non-profit organisations is defined by law and regulation. And the rulebook defines who and how long they have to report. So it shouldn't stand here. Therefore, the Management Board is obliged to submit a financial report for the financial year within 60 days of the expiry of the reporting period, a pardon within 90 days of the expiry of the report period of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I don't see why 90 days, but what's controversial here, how can you submit a report on something that someone hasn't adopted for you? Because the program and the financial plan should be adopted by the Government if you file a report. What will the government control if you haven't given some kind of work programme, if you haven't given some kind of projected funding? What will the Government of the Republic of Croatia adopt? What you're going to give her at the end of the year is a report, you can do one thing, you can have a income from a June and someone can say it's perfect, it's good. But if you had a plan to make 10, 15 or 20 programmes and with this foundation the foundation will spend so much and so much money then this report makes sense, operationally it makes sense if the founder of the Government of the Republic of Croatia and then this administrative council that we talked about is the same in a certain way if he does not do his job, if the Government does not adopt the report has reason to be replaced. But if you didn't give them assignments, then there's nothing to change them on. And in the end, for the obligations of the trust, the trust fund corresponds to all of its assets. It simply doesn't comply with any law. Because something or someone is being held accountable by the founder. And that's why I told you that in this previous section you have to have something that the government will accept and then file a report just for that. Because look, you always have irresponsible people. Someone can create a foundation obligation that the foundation will not be able to finance from its assets but that someone will give funds or something or that someone can guarantee that this programme will then be executed by the founder. So, Madam Minister, these are some suggestions that I think would improve this law and that in another reading, we will not have in one cultural topic a semi-primative debate of quasi-intellectuals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38989	Replica, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38990	Here I would agree with my colleague Shucker, but since the Latins also said nomin sant odyos all over me, and they're not so hateful, so at least tell me who had such semi-primitative at least as far as this law is concerned. And I personally think here, and I agree with you, and that's what I said right away at the beginning that this law should be more clearly defined, defined. The intention is to preserve cultural heritage, promote cultural heritage and culture of the Republic of Croatia in the world not only in the EU that those places that, in any case, should be put into office of all embassies that we have spent many times more money when we made certain Croatian houses, when they were sporting competitions, the question is what happened after those houses, that this should be one I would say the overall project and be adopted at political consensus, that here I should not lead to a trench battle between the position and the opposition, but above all that this law should be fully clear. To see both the way and the future not only near the future of that foundation but also much further the future. And I think we have plenty of time because this law should only come into force on 1 January 2014. Whether there will be a foundation, whether it will be an institution, whether it will be a legal person. I agree that this project should include Croatian Catholic missions, that it should also include the Croatian Brethren Community, that it should include all those who mean something and who can help. Because this project cannot only be financed from the state budget, but this project should actually support many donations worldwide. Only then does he have a future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38991	Thank you. Replication response, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38992	Thank you very much. My colleague Vinkovic, and that is precisely why I said that perhaps the legislator did not clearly set a goal. Because when you clearly set a goal, then you choose the tools to come or the path to which you will reach that goal. So, the key thing is to determine in this law, and I hope the minister agrees with what she wants to achieve. When do you clearly define what you want to achieve with this, what form will it be? Whether it's gonna be a trust, whether it's gonna be this or what's ultimately irrelevant. What matters is that we have a clear goal, we know what we want to achieve, and then we choose the means and tools to get to that. Because the view is also very important, so if we talk about this point tomorrow's agenda Strategy for the Development of Croatian Tourism, so cultural heritage is something that is not ultimately Dubrovnik's top destination in the world and number 1 because of what Dubrovnik is, but because of some cultural heritage that every citizen in the world practically wants to see. And maybe they appreciate him far more than we do. This is, therefore, the same thing as perhaps one task, but local self-government units are involved, and that is why this monumental rent was introduced, and all of this is due to the protection and maintenance of these cultural monuments, etc. So, according to this law, by me and finally, I said it in the debate, and I hope you as mayor experience it and watch it because you have a cultural event that is famous in the world. ... But I'm talking about the Giakovic alliances that are exactly what the world knows, so it's important to determine what we want. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] If we figure out what we want, I think we're going to make a very big deal the way and model how we're going to do it. But I repeat, some institutions in the world in the Croatian people have far more warm, intimate relations than the official representations of our government. It's because of some of the past times, and we know what happened, unfortunately the antagonism remains. And you know very well that in Paris we also sold that embassy because the Croats in Paris said simply to give them too much memory of Yugoslavia and that they do not want to go there. And a new embassy was bought. So, just one little, little comparison like this can mean a negative approach to someone's relationship to something. That's why we need to think about everything when we talk.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38993	Maria Lugaric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38994	Dear fellow Shuker, when you spoke of the distribution of the lottery funds, I think it is your fault that they have given you, and that the events of the people and the general rebellion occur when they are touched by someone's means. You know as well as I do that the distribution is determined for every calendar year of the beginning in certain percentages. And when you look at a little dynamic, here we talk about culture, in 2007 from the lottery funds 5% went for culture, in 2012, it was 11.11, to increase 11.89% for 2013, that's culture. Education had a similar path, 2012. 2.02% increased to 4%. So, the point that any of the users of the lottery funds are going to experience their own means as a laziness to which they can't be touched is simply not true, because when you look at how dynamically the lottrian assets have been distributed, it shows that they're moving in quite large ranges. Even within individual users, I don't know a sport that has a maximum of 35%, in 2013 even one part was reduced in the Olympic Committee on Paralympics. So there isn't, it seems to me in that part of any dilemma that it won't be a good source of funds, I think that the lottery funds are exactly for that, and as we can see from all this data, it's going to be able to change and no one's raised up so far, no big riots or riots because at some point they had less, in another more. This is exactly how this common money is directed which is available, and that is how policies define it. Here's a culture in 2007 I repeat 5% of the lottery funds, 2013. 11.89.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38995	The answer to the replica Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38996	My colleague Lugaric, unlike you who are from only one ministry of funds, asked for funds I was the one who should have arranged and proposed for the government. And what I said, I didn't suck it out of my finger, but I just said it, and my colleague Zlatar can confirm what the relationship is when anyone who calculates how much money he owns from it, you take one lip. So I didn't say it by heart, and what you're saying just started using percentages again, and you didn't say what programs, which are no longer funded from gambling, which are financed from individual ministries. So when you look at it, then you'll see, but I'm just repeating that no one will agree to take one prominence without a significant explanation, but you don't have that to be founded here, that someone will be taken new funds, but it's working here that these funds that are already intended for culture are going to be reduced. So you cut the existing funds for one program to finance the new program. And it certainly won't come to the approval of those who use those funds. So what I said, I said from experience, because every year I fought a war on the distribution of these funds because it's not small funds.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38997	Ms Andre Zlatar Violic's closing statement. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38998	Dear Madam Vice President, distinguished colleagues and fellow MPs and MPs. I'm going to speak very briefly for a reason why I appreciate your time and I know how much work we do and everyone is waiting for you until 1.7, especially with regard to the adoption of the law. I thank you first of all for all the comments that were concrete and related to the topic and who recognized the idea of the project, and the idea of the project is the promotion of Croatia, which means through culture, through cultural identity, through language, and then through science in this popular sense abroad with a special emphasis on the initial circle, the initial circle of the region in terms of one strategy. What I want to say, the funds, we are very aware of the whole financial problem and in the first conversation with the Ministry of Finance, it was quite clear that the foundation cannot be financed or some type of institution from the state budget, nor will some new items be raised, but that it can go on a search for new funds. And from the funds that are now provided for international co-operation to withdraw these initial funds that are necessary for the establishment. The founding process itself will establish a statute and a rule on criteria. So, the criteria rule will exist as every institution now in culture has its four-year work plan, investment plan, programme plan that goes through the approval of the competent councils, so it will be here as well. What seems extremely important to me is that as a goal, and I understand that in the strict language of the law, the goal may not be sufficiently recognized in reason. What is of great importance to us, is to put together synergy, common all elements and all the mechanisms that exist today. Tourism uses the word branding, we do not like to use it in culture and say that we want to brand Croatian or Croatian culture. However, it is in one way. It is certainly not that this foundation of existing initiatives and existing links that work between institutions, whether between associations, festivals, would put a negative paw on it in terms of some selection and control. No, it's just that we want to make an independent association that deals with maybe once a whole new type of art, to classical institutions like the Croatian Matica, Christian missions, make a synergy bond to get to the brand, that there is now a logo of Croatia, on these projects that are now funded from different ways and agreed that very often do not achieve a common effect. They have successes in individual areas but there is no or no additional effect of the community that things when they are agreed get. I stand up anyway. We will be happy to accept the debate either on the parliamentary bodies, whether at the Assembly, which would talk about strategic definitions of how to make Croatia recognized through part of the heritage, part of its contemporary, cultural and artistic ranking and, of course, through the theme of language. But what's important to us in this story is that we have one mechanism that will just make it impossible for individual embassies to have or do not have the means to ensure that there are key points by which everyone who is willing will have an audience and the audience exists everywhere and we are aware of the differentiation and audience, we are aware of the differentiation that in Bosnia we have to deal with Croats outside the Republic, that in countries where there has been large emigration of the 60s and 70s we have to do without talking about overseas countries where immigrant waves started a hundred and more years ago we have to deal with second, third, fourth generation especially when it comes to this idea that the foundation is a mechanism to attract additional funds. However, the experience of this French festival also shows that the audience of the country's citizens in which we are visiting is extremely interested and unfortunately uninformed about what Croatia is and what Croatia is offering, and therefore these programmes will also be focused on capacitating and correct to say the orientation of those programmes that make Croatia recognizable to the interest and position that Croatia has in that country or in that space. For the end of one sentence only. As far as all matters concerning the law are concerned, they will once again pass all readings and legal formulations and an explanation that would give more content I hope that we will have the opportunity to speak and discuss together at one of the parliamentary bodies or at a special parliamentary thematic session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u38999	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39000	Proposal for a Law on the Foundation "Croatian House – Croatian House", first reading, P.Z. No. 336. The debate on the text is closed. In line with the proposals of the working bodies, I am voting on the following conclusion: The proposal for a law on the "Croatian House" Foundation is hereby adopted. And two, all objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft of the law. I'm asking you to state who's in favour of the proposed conclusion. Thank you very much. Who is against the proposed conclusion? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that the majority of votes, 80 votes in favour, 2 votes against and 21 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39001	We will discuss a)The proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media; b) The proposal for a decision to appoint part of the Council for Electronic Media; the Proposer is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of Article 68(2) of the Law on Electronic Media have established that the Croatian Parliament appoints, resolves the President and members of the Council for Electronic Media on the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. Does the Minister want to explain the proposal? Deputy Minister? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. Does the board want it? Yes, please, the chairman of the Committee on Information, Information and Media Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39002	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, deputy deputy minister with associate. The Committee on Information, Information and Media discussed at the 19th session today the proposal for a decision to resolve the work of members of the Council for Electronic Media and the proposal for a decision to appoint members of the Council for Electronic Media to which the Government of the Croatian Parliament delivered the President of the Republic by means of an act of 11 April 2013. The Committee considered those proposals as a parent working body. The opening statement by the applicant's representative pointed out that part of the so far-called members of the electronic media council pointed out the term of office on 30 April 2013; therefore, the Government of the Republic of Croatia set out a proposal for a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the electronic media council on 30 April 2013 for the expiry of the term of office. The Government of the Republic of Croatia shall also establish, on the basis of the procedure carried out following a public call, a proposal for a decision to appoint part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media with effect from 1 May 2013. The discussion on the committee drew attention to the fact that one of the candidates proposed for the appointment of a member of the board for electronic media, members of the board of directors of HINA, and that in this case it was a conflict of interest. The proposer stressed that the Minister of Culture sent a letter to the Government of the Republic of Croatia on 28 March 2013 saying that, in the event of the appointment of the candidate for a member of the Council for Electronic Media, it should be relieved of its duties as member of the Governing Council of HINA. After the debate was held on the proposal for a decision to resolve part of the members of the electronic media council, the Committee decided unanimously with 9 votes to propose to the Croatian Parliament the following conclusion: "It is supported to take a decision on the resolution of part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media in the text as proposed by the Government of the Republic." Following the debate on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media, the Committee held an individual vote on each candidate. For the appointment of candidate Susana Kunac, there were 4 votes for and 5 abstentions and for the appointment of candidate Gordana Simonovic there were 4 votes for, 4 votes against and one abstention. In view of the result of the vote, the decisions were not taken because members' opinions remained divided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39003	Thank you. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the team of HDZ representatives, please welcome Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39004	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues and colleagues, the esteemed Deputy Minister with his associates. In part, in his explanation, the chairman of the Committee indicated how the discussion took place in the Committee on Media and Information. It is not a questionable part of the resolution of the members so far because they have simply expired. What is disputed is partly indicated by the chairman of the board, but I will try to elaborate it further. First, it's inadmissible and I think it should have been in the board's report because we've been protesting on the board that we haven't received the documentation with the other candidates who were registered in the competition. Here is a list of more than twenty people, some of whom are very well-known names and very competent names in this area whose résumés have not been attached. There was information given by the board president that it was given an order to multiply it and surrender it to representatives' clubs, for other clubs I don't know and can't speak, but at the HDZ Representatives' Club, the documentation did not come. The treatment of the Media Committee as a post office to only deliver two CVs from the candidates in this case, for which we should vote, is inadmissible and this practice did not exist in the competent ministry in 2009 when the current Vice-President of the Assembly, Mr Stazic, always delivered their résumés. Why do we insist on that? Because, at the very least, a member or a board member cannot say whether they are the best candidates or candidates because you simply do not have the material to compare. Let us know these names very well, we know they're competent people, but we don't know if they're better for this function than proposed. That's why we voted with abstention on a candidate who was proposed for the appointment. As far as the other candidate is concerned, it is definitely the possibility of a conflict of interest being opened here. On the committee itself, when we discussed this, we were not familiar with the letter of the Ministry of Culture which insists on the resolution, but if so, we believe that the proposed candidate was to do so and deliver whether she knew for sure that she would be proposed by the Committee, she would submit some written statement that she would resign, given that this was the person appointed by this Assembly to the Administrative Council of HINA when, in my opinion, against the law on HINA, the former president of the Faculty of Philosophy and replaced the director of the Lexicographic Institute by me for absolutely no reason whatsoever, was completely unargumented and only so that the HINA Administrative Council would be placed similar people. And that further motivates us that there are so many candidates in the country who meet the conditions and in the country where there are 370,000 unemployed we must appoint the same person to the Administrative Council of HINA and then after less than a year appoint the same person as a member of the Council for Electronic Media. Of course, this opens up the possibility of conflicts of interest because certain electronic media are buying services or news from HINA and the Council for Electronic Media should be their independent controller and regulator, and of course there may be a conflict of interest. And I don't know if that letter was sent at the end of the 3rd month, if I've heard correctly, I really don't know why someone in three weeks can't announce if they're elected to resign. Inadmissible. I remind you of the case of Mr Lejevac who, when elected to the Council for Electronic Media, immediately announced and resigned as president of the HRT Programme Council. Is that how we work in Croatian media? Is that the set-up of a media strategy we've been talking about for a while? Is that what we were convinced when the HRT Act was passed? I don't think he's a colleague or a colleague. We actually think it's something else. The Council for Electronic Media, in our opinion for the following reason, has been hurried. Because at the same time, there is a debate about what happened. Funding the so-called non-profit media, i.e. the possibility of the funds available to the Council for Electronic Media intended to promote pluralism of the media, to open up the possibility to apply to this fund something called non-profit media. Even though you can't get an exact list anywhere, which are non-profit producers and which are non-profit media, it's concluded that it's only those media that don't have the label d.o.o. and who were founded either by associations or I don't know who. So far, 16 million kunas have been given to radio stations, 16 million kunas for television sets, primarily local ones who have had to produce certain content, now there is a tendency to these funds, and these are these amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media, which are in preparation for that part of the money that employs 2,000 people with a lot of valuable journalists and media employees at the local level, to apply to this money something called a non-profit medium. I cannot be impressed that this very designation which clearly opens up the possibility of conflict of interest was made in this sense in order to get a majority of those positions in the Council for Electronic Media. And then it all fits. First, the Administrative Council of HINA is being replaced... by me for no reason whatsoever because there was no reason to explain it. After that, another person is brought into HINA, a famous media tax is launched, if you remember these articles in the paper, and then it stops, the issue of amending and supplementing the Law on Electronic Media, goes with new amendments to the Council for Electronic Media, parallelly drags the story where they will legally allow these funds to apply so-called. non-profit media, and on public content, no one speaks of public interest so that financial resources can be drawn there. If that's the goal of these changes, and I'm afraid when I look at these names that, then there's no other way on the Media Committee we couldn't even vote. We don't see any other reason why just as well-checked personnel can be proposed by the government and the competent ministry for the position in the Council for Electronic Media. According to my information, no discussions have been held in the home ministry with these candidates who meet the criteria. For what? So you don't hear what they have to say? Perhaps because the Ministry of Culture now has a special adviser for media politics as little as possible, but I am convinced that it was as complex as possible. Because this appointment prepares the ground to implement sooner or later that part of the quasi media strategy that we called the media tax, which is to enable similar ones and those that someone will evaluate to the credits, regardless of whether they do not realize the public interest, nor profit, nor have an obligation to hire people, nor pay them wages, will open up the possibility of taking funds from that tank that remains for media pluralism. This is why we are, of course, against this appointment, and we are definitely against the fact that it opens up the possibility of conflict of interest and regardless of the letter that the Ministry of Culture has sent it absolutely welcome, we believe that there has been enough time within three weeks of this letter that the candidate, or candidate, is indicating that she will resign as president of the Administrative Council of HINA so that she can be appointed to the Council for Electronic Media. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39005	Thank you. Jozo Radosh, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39006	Hey, buddy Messicho, listen up. So what kind of relationship you bring between the appointment of the Governing Council of HINA and possible conflicts of interest and abuse in the work of the Electronic Media Council. That's pretty hard to guess what kind of relationship you guys find. The funds for the diversity of electronic media that amount to 30 million kunas, 30 million kunas, you said they were shared for non-profit media, and they also encourage that diversity somewhere in the amount of about 3 million, so 1/10. But you are on the trail of your conspiracy theory and bad intentions not only to introduce the Administrative Council of HINA, but despite the very clear fact that the chairman of the Committee has said that the Ministry of Culture has sent a letter to the Government to replace this candidate if it is appointed, which, of course, excludes the need for her to resign by her letter, so everything is clear. You continue to insist that all this has been done just to promote allegedly similar non-profit media. So you put a little too many structures out in your presentation, of course it doesn't matter, so this is a shift or appointment after the term of office. In these procedural remarks that you have spoken of you cannot enter, you are probably right in that sense, certainly I am for the committee to gain greater insight, including, of course, everything else, but this structure around hidden intentions related to the Administrative Council of HINA and the alleged conflict of interest that will occur, even if everything is saying otherwise, I absolutely cannot believe it and I think you are wrong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39007	Replication response, Jasen Mesic. You've done some damage to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39008	I'm sorry. Yes, the answer to the replica. So there's... The electronic media council, which should be an independent regulator for electronic media, i.e. local radio stations and local television. These same legal persons who employ over 2,000 people practically live off the money that is intended for them. That's the part that gets from the subscription to HRT. These local radio stations and television stations are buying part of the news from HINA, Mr. Radoš, and of course the person who sits in such a council as a regulator, who has these resources and grants funds to these local radio stations, can potentially be in conflict of interest or tell this about an independent regulator. If you're sitting in an independent regulator at the HINA Board, you've got nothing to do. That's number one. Number two, it's 16 million for radio stations, 16 million for television stations. Amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Media are being drawn up, so another law that opens up the possibility of non-profit media applying to these funds. This is not the possibility of funding that has been opened in the budget, this year's budget where the amount for non-profit media has been dedicated, so these are still additional funds that threaten the survival of these people, and the current structure in the Council for Electronic Media is how familiar it is to me, and I am familiar with it because it felt that, above all, the main criterion of this should be not non-profit but public interest. So that's the point. As for the proposed candidates I really can't believe it, I really can't believe that the proposed candidates are the best look at the list of Mr. Radosh who reported everything really for that contest. You will see that these are very, very many of them... people because by name they're famous no matter what we didn't have the opportunity to see the résumés. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39009	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club, a colleague, Branko Vukšić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39010	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Well, actually, the biggest bear service was done to Mrs. Kunac and Simonovic, and the bear service was made because I don't think it's well led by the election process. The first treatment of the Information, Information and Media Committee is like a mailbox treating us. On the other hand, we were supposed to be in this fig leaf process and to simply raise our hands and approve what is not right, and I said about Mrs. Kunac and Mrs. Simonovic. It's not good because we didn't have any insight into all those candidates who competed for two seats in the Council for Electronic Media. What's been offered to us? We've been offered, we've chosen two, you can choose between two or you can refuse. Take it or leave it. I don't think that's good. If we choose members of the council, an independent council that has a very responsible function in society. When the Ministry sent us the paperwork, it was incomplete. All we got were the résumés of two ladies who were proposed by the government to be council members. You know, 20 more very competent people have been told before. I agree here with Mr. Mesic who said there were probably competent people on that list. The fact that it was stuck when I received a memo from the ministry I asked them to send me a later and a lifeline of all those who came forward and I asked that the services of the Parliament be shared with the members of the board, that is, their clubs, because there was too much material and that these materials were taken in the clubs. But they say it's not in the clubs, that the service hasn't done its job. I don't believe it's a conspiracy, I believe it's an accident. The Croatian Labour Club has arrived. So I don't think it's an evil intention. It may be a mistake, but it's not good for those candidates. In these 20, whether it was an emergency in these 20 people who didn't make it through the government's solution has very competent people we were supposed to discuss today. As it is, the debate doesn't make sense if we're just discussing what we're offered and we don't see the other one, we don't see it. It would've been good if the MPs had gotten that, if the MPs could say so, so this one's better, this one's got better qualifications. I know one, I won't name those 20 because I'll be unfair to 19 if I name one. I know a man who works on BBC, who worked on the radio, means he worked on TV, who's an editor, who makes documentary films, who knows everything about electronic media. He didn't make it. That's why I think that's why the board voted. The Committee did not give the necessary majority, did not give consent and this practice is not good. This isn't happening in the Ministry of Culture for the first time, probably not even the last time. I'm not going to talk at all about that last spring we talked at the Ministry of Culture and here in the Parliament that we need to bring in a media strategy by autumn. It was promised that a media strategy would be adopted, that we would discuss the function of the Council for Electronic Media and HACOM whether it could be connected or not, which are their touching flows, how these two agencies would make their work cheaper, how to make it more efficient. However, none of it is proposed by the government, nor does it propose a strategy, nor does it suggest we discuss why the communications transmitters send such large accounts. Why it costs 120 million bills of transmitters and connections to Croatian broadcasters and then hang up after one conversation to 100 million, 20 million are fired. How much does a really service transmitter and connection cost? Who calculated that? It's a media strategy. It's not just a media strategy set of laws. We need to know what we want in the media, one relationship to the printed media, to the new media, to the electronic media. In order for us to know this, we need to talk here in the Parliament, so this is simply a sad way, such treatment not of the Committee for Information, Information and Media but of such a relationship with the Croatian Parliament which has no insight into what to vote for. Because he has no idea because he doesn't know who the other people who competed for those places were, those who met all the criteria. And I say there are beautiful people. As you've seen, I haven't shown myself about any of this person. The second thing was to be prescribed, the ministry did quite well when it asked the government to relieve a candidate who could be in conflict of interest, which is Mrs Simonovic, but Mrs Simonovic had to suggest and say in the competition that each must declare that she must leave the election day a function that could lead to conflict of interest. There's no such thing as a statement. That statement was requested from the candidate director of HRT, if you remember. So let's take a step forward, then take two steps back. There, so much in the name of the Croatian Labourists who will also be in this vote either against or abstaining.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39011	Replica, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39012	Thank you. I don't know Mr. Vuksic why you're so surprised, so that's normal for you. Where you decide there's a... Then you get what you get and it's like in communism if you remember, they were strangers, they have three on the ballot, and three on the ballot. And he doesn't mind, but only who's in favour and how many votes they get, that's enough for them to pass. That's your system. And why is this system so surprising to you? On the other hand, when it comes to the regulator's problem and that, we had an even more drastic example in HANFA that regulates the entire non-financial sector, the financial sector except for the banking sector where we put those people who come from the subject of regulation in that independent regulator in its administration. And it's from the private sector, not the public sector. At least someone who's been in the public sector is coming here, and now they're coming under the regulator. So I think that this example is still a sweet mother of such practically marmalade compared to what happened at HANFA, so here's the length of people, we don't know anything if anything they do is working well when we don't hear anything about their work. So, this is not an isolated case, this is a model that happens beautifully, which happens, they've made a good decision, they've put it together. We shall vote for what they have given those who are for those who are not there, or they will be against it, but there will be more who are in favour. I don't know what more candidates would do now? Then just further complicate the procedure when the candidates are in agreement. So we need to focus on these remaining ones and see if they're good enough and not still bother with the other 18 when they're already at the center where they decide that they're not as competent as these two candidates. So let's be cooperative, do nice work with the ministry and most of it, and let's not complicate things. I'm just kidding, of course.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39013	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39014	My colleague Djurovic, now that you mention it to HANFA, it's similar to HACOM. It's that dog's barking, the caravans are passing. They won't give us a choice not to complicate it, you said well, let's not complicate it. Why do we need a procedure? The procedure is the basis of democracy. If we don't respect the procedure, how are we going to respect the rest? There's this great novel, and I think the only novel from Kishon is "The Fox in a Chicken." What you said, we gave the fox to guard the chicken. And this procedure that we're going through today is one disrespect for Parliament, disrespect for procedure, mistrust for people so they can think for themselves and so they can see and see there are people who have competed for this place and these people know something. Because you know you're uncomfortable when you see three, four men you know well, who you know, who are known to the public, who have great results behind them and they haven't passed. Then it's better not to talk about them in Parliament. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39015	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39016	Well, here's my colleague responsible for saying that the HDSSB Club didn't get any material, here's except this proposal for a Decision on the resolution of a part of the members and the appointment of a part of the members. Frankly, I have not known any members so far as from this very harsh text of decision based on neither my own conscience can raise my hand nor my against. Well, I can't even be abstentioned. Based on what? Based on what explanation? Also, I have no idea who answered. So, I wouldn't say it was a failure to serve in the Parliament, but the fact is that certain clubs didn't get any accompanying material with this decision. I can trust you now that among other candidates, since you are also the chairman of this board that there have been much louder names but can't argue that they understand each other in electronic media. And I think it's also that even here this board of yours obviously didn't, and even most in the House couldn't make a decision except for the resolution of the members, but it couldn't make a decision to appoint new members of that council. And apparently, we should all learn together from this way of humanizing that is obviously not good and that ultimately damages and develops these electronic media in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39017	Replication response, Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39018	Yeah, you see the board didn't make the appointment decision. So he didn't support the government's decision. But now the question is, what is the purpose of this committee if the board says no? It's a debate club that doesn't bind anyone. On Friday, hands will rise, most of them will raise their hands for it. I think that when we are warned that the board must have something at the session and there are no parliamentary representatives, I ask the question, especially to colleagues from the majority, and why is the decision being made anyway? No, but we need to discuss it. We must respect the form, not the content, but the form. So I believe you didn't get this, didn't get HDZ, didn't get clubs, and you have nothing to vote on. Really, you have no basis for voting for, you have no basis to vote against or to be abstentioned because perhaps then these two ladies that are proposed, because you don't need to believe my word, you need to believe your eyes, read and see which person, I claim to you by names and last names that there are people who enjoy a great respect in the media and who know what the Council means for electronic media. But these people don't need the government, these people, they have the right to choose but we have the right to see and that's how they vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39019	We're moving on to an individual debate, colleague of Sunchana Glavak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39020	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. More or less colleagues have passed on what we talked about on the board today, and I will agree with the question of what committees actually serve, except as some guidelines and whether that is the case at all. And as for one of the series of proposals coming to us from the Ministry of Culture, they can mostly say they're sloppy, they're superficial and they're missing. So I wouldn't say at all what we got, but what we didn't get. And so it is evident that the SDP club has received materials with résumés of all the members, we have checked that, it is evident, it is evident that the HDZ club and apparently other clubs have not received it. So, the media strategy still doesn't exist, a year and a half went by since the government took over, the minister was here, I don't know why she couldn't join us for 30 minutes, no one had to say absolutely anything on behalf of the Ministry of Culture and something to say about the people the government is proposing. I am sorry that there is no minister to ask if she has spoken to someone in person, so she knows that someone will resign without entering at all the competences of colleagues who are proposed to appreciate each other, but what we have warned about is that they are competing for a place in the regulator, and as you know HINA also has an audio service, and thus falls under the regulator, or the Council for Electronic Media. Article 68 is replaced by the The Council for Electronic Media, which he spoke of in part, said: "The members of the council must not be owners, shareholders or the owner of the stakes, members of the administration, supervisory boards or members of the Board of Directors or other relevant bodies, etc. "that I do not now list all this, and the colleague we unfortunately discussed is a member of the Governing Council of HINA, and, unlike her, Mrs Kunac has also submitted a statement, which we have, we have, has added a statement in which she, under full material and criminal responsibility, declares that she is not among other members of the Supervisory Boards or members of the Governing Councils. Similarly, I will remind you of the HINA Act, Article 11, says: "A member of the HINA Governance Council cannot be among other persons who are in a working relationship or perform any other business in competing companies that could result in a conflict of interest."so that's what my colleague Mesic was talking about. And therefore, if he is a member, a member of the council that person is therefore in a working relationship. So, to remove all these misunderstandings that may not have been said enough. When we talk about a potential conflict of interest, then you might wonder if it is surprising, because for example today it has also been announced that the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interests is investigating among other things and that Minister Zlatar Violić was in conflict of interest because she has awarded 600 000 kuna to the two-week rapporteur for culture, in her co-ownership. So I'm not at all surprised why we'd even be surprised if someone were in a conflict of interest, I mean a big deal, which now. So, all that's going on, we're not happy with it, we're sorry about what the Ministry of Culture has to do with it, we don't have any specific contacts with them, something had a president, a little bit more, but not to speak on his behalf when the HRT Act was passed. However, I think that we should work closely with the Ministry of Culture with the board, so perhaps we could remove some concerns in advance. However, this is not happening, all of this has resulted, and if you did not know that we are all here in the assembly that according to new surveys, the government does not support over 70% of voters, 71.9% of voters do not support government moves, and among other things you are government, or one part of the government, Ministry of Culture, and perhaps you are contributing to this beautiful result that should make everyone concerned. When we talk, so in this context and about HINA, I'll just remind myself of what happened quietly when the principal was replaced, when a person who was the party's spokeswoman was elected to power, so now from the current Kukuriku coalition, and so that person can now be the director, so I wonder what would have been the reaction that when HDZ was in power, for example, a colleague Zlatko Memun or Mladen Pavić became director of HINA, so either here I was lucky and became director of HINA, what would be your reaction here in the assembly or in the media, and what would that have an echo in the media space? So, I think that all of us here are doing funny things, bringing us suggestions that you'll probably vote for, and I'm really wondering why we expect from the media space in Croatia all the time, and to be nice, and to invite them to the civilizations of liquids, and we invite them to be objective. I wonder why, when the Resort Ministry is absolutely ignoring the laws of what we say here, we warn once again not to point out that I am against any person who reports to the competition. She has a right to do so, but a colleague could make such a statement herself, not that the minister said something in her name, it really led me to absurdity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39021	Thank you. Replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39022	Dear colleagues, I do not know now whether the ministry is even this signature, or in this proposal of this decision, saying: "The proposed decisions with the appropriate documentation are attached." Now I don't know who he went to, probably just the parties in power. So I, as a parliamentary representative, got nothing but these four papers. I first thought that rather than God maybe going into war with someone, so this is going to be a closed session, it's strictly confidential. You don't even have a year of birth here, you don't even have where they come from. So I don't mind this one. I really don't even know who the spokesman was, what political options. What if they had appointed you director but at the end of the line I don't think this is exactly what I want to say is this kind of harsh word since maybe even some kids are watching max TV but this here is obviously about one big slapper. A schlamper that has such deep and is woven with a deep political shoe and it's still about going to set up our likeers and that's it. I don't see why as a parliamentary representative because obviously then neither the Government nor the President of the Parliament or ourselves sitting here will have to start wearing vests because we don't trust each other to be able to discuss quality of the discussion we need to have complete documentation and this isn't complete documentation. This is nothing.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39023	The answer to the replica of the Sun Head.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39024	Surely, fellow Vinkovic, you are curious. Well, don't you believe what comes to you from the government, I think you'd really start to believe. So, of course, I'm a bit of a cartoonist for the whole situation. I believe that now the citizens are also wondering what they believed when they chose and they believed that Plan 21 and that 21 point completely turned away. So you don't have to get a thread that's all top secret, trust me, just put your hand up there and if you won't do anything to anyone. They don't need your hand. They'll vote it. So I don't know what else to say to you but hope that finally the Ministry of Culture will prepare that media strategy so that everyone there will get serious, that they won't be constantly over-explained, less advisors, a little more professional people, a little more consultation with the interested public, and maybe then we can expect some shifts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39025	A clear Mesic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39026	I see now that we may have made some mistakes too, my colleague Glavak, it would have been much better if you or your colleague Mehun had become the director of the Croatian news agency. What I wanted to say was this conflict of interest is not a coincidence. That's the rule. You have the appointment on the HRT di Shogora, the best men become the main counterjudge of creative staff. You have the same situation that from the same family you have an editorial frame in HINA. Then now the person running the board of HINA becomes a member of an independent regulator, a show program. Well, there's not a single appointment that's not in conflict of interest, not a single one. We haven't been able to guess a single one that isn't connected. Well, we're here. My colleague Glavak, do you think that this is part of the media strategy propaganda when special people specialising in media policy have been brought to the Ministry of Culture, which will give birth to the situation in the media, the European Commission's counter-amendment in the European Parliament that says people don't do that. Don't make media laws like that, don't do that. First of all, you are not doing good to Croatia. Did you sleep through your fellow Glavak? It's simply become a rule and you can't believe it until we've come with media personneling. It's unsustainable anymore. I'm fully aware of the repercussion that will be because I know they won't call me on HRT. I know they won't do a single controversy show on the Croatian House Foundation Act. I know they won't send anyone from the opposition when that's discussed. I'm deeply convinced of that, but it's going to take some time for my fellow Glavak, but it can't last forever. You understand? A pro-post Commission for Conflict of Interest allegedly decides on both the head director of HRT and is being reconsidered.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39027	Thank you. The answer to the replica of the Sun Head. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39028	My colleague Mesic will not definitely make a show about Croatia's house, but someone will surely be taken care of in that Croatian house. That's quite clear. But it's not the end. We are just ahead of this story because, namely, a competition for the Commissioner for Information has appeared rather than a former SDP spokeswoman. I think it's just fine so we can get it on the bench right now. We don't even have to pass the board, so we'll be calm. If someone else isn't taken care of from what political options give us please tell us and we end this agony because this really doesn't make any sense anymore. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39029	Branko Vuksic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39030	Dear colleague Glava, it's a shame we Labourists don't have a spokeswoman. You asked a contact, for contacts of the Information Committee with the Ministry of Culture. They're just visual, we're just seeing a moment like this that's certainly not good, which is underestimating the council, which is underestimating the board. We contacted until the moment when we agreed on the bill on HRT and when we agreed on the principles on which it would be done and when they came up with other proposals than what we had agreed and what we had received was a disastrously bad law. The consequences of this law will be long and catastrophic. The minister used to talk here about a small relationship. This is a big circuit, this must be a big tie. And what's going on, I don't believe it's an accident. Someone mentioned earlier that maybe the kids are watching this program. Well, according to what Mr. Mesic said about the show program, this is all some show. We're supposed to be in that show entertainers right now, but we're not up to the fun we're gonna cry all together because what we're doing here is too scary. We will begin to feel the consequences tomorrow but the worst in a few years because we are going to the fact that we do not want the most capable personnel but still the party's booklet or party's booklet to be offended, the party's book is either the most important or the sympathy or the belongings. If that's not why we didn't get all those people on paper to read who they are and see who really is the best of them. And then I say, the government has the right to choose.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39031	The Sun Glavak response to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39032	Thank you very much. My colleague Vuksic, therefore, was well remembered so everything fell into the water when you were actually deceived when the law came at the end of the bench. However, you mentioned the Law on HRT I will remind you then I said that according to the law will be the Director-General of that chosen Zoran Milanović and then now had replaced Goran Radman, 50-ish or something like that editor on HTV and then we have constantly some circuses there, the end of the shows. So what she has chosen now, Mrs Violic, we will see how it ends, and I doubt anyone will be removed because of these failures.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39033	And Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39034	The media is really neither a job nor a matter of primary interest, but what happened with the Croatian media during this relatively short period, the period of government of those who are now not present in the assembly except for one gentleman and indeed something that is fascinating for the country that enters the EU, this clean one that they did on HTV on Croatian Radio in HINA in public media regulators, this is something that will be well marked by this economic failure. I kind of feel like I'm being honest and sorry for those people who are named today and these two. But those others, you're a representative of the ministry and you're not the ones who are the bearers of that activity, but here's Mr. Vuksic, unfortunately in a feedback wave that's going to have to happen is the scale and the way this is done in the public media is going to get his back wave in the next round, is how it goes circles just spinning. And unfortunately, in this next round that will be inevitable again, part of the now solid people who have been violently promoted and placed in some places in a non-democratic, authoritative completely one party way, these people in that shock wave will again suffer for not taking advantage of the opportunity and trying some democratic way honestly, openly, transparently in the spirit of time, in the spirit of change promised to make the necessary personnel changes that should have been made in public media.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39035	The answer to the replica of my colleague, Sunny Glavak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39036	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I haven't answered, but here's when you called me. You're right fellow, what we were promised at the big door among other things was in media change, or that it would happen on the media scene, as you can see, they happened from worse, we could say worse. If someone said something wasn't right, we agreed, the laws need to be changed, there they are, times change need to be improved. But where does that get us? On HTV you can make one whole circle editorial and we'll go again from the beginning. What are our discussions about? from one gossip to encourage the whole controversy and then based on the gossip that is actually, what we're talking about here instead of dealing with serious things, to deal with the problems of the unemployed, we're dealing with the problems of the unemployed, based on gossip, then we're opening up some issues. That's how the story with HRT started, based on gossip first. At the time, it was said that HTV would be consolidated that the new director had a good program, that it would cut costs, that we would get paid insight. Today we got the odds that then it says that editor K-12 plus increased by K-2, so that's pay. So we got an answer from HRT on months-long enquiries that we get to see how many people there get paid when they're all subject to funding from the state budget to be at the public eye of how much they earn. So if you can maybe have some connections on HTV, then calculate that K-12 increased by K-2, then please tell me next time how you feel about it. So that's how the intro works, you see how far that's led us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39037	I'm closing the debate. We'll make a statement about the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39038	(a) Proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a part of an electronic media council member; (b) Proposal for a decision appointing a part of an electronic media council member. The debate is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision on discharge. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39039	Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, I would like to ask you in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament for a 15-minute recess to agree on your vote.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39040	And now we're gonna give a 10 minute break, that's enough for you, so we're gonna continue in 10 minutes at 12.10 hours. Thank you very much. Can we continue the session? I'd like a representative of the HDZ Representatives' Club in the Croatian Assembly who asked for a break to be made. I ask all MPs to take their seats and allow for the continuation of the work of the Croatian Parliament. Here you go, Your Honor. Jasen Mesic, on behalf of the HDZ Representatives' Club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39041	Dear President, dear colleagues and colleagues have discussed media politics in the Republic of Croatia several times in this House. We have repeatedly warned of what the European Commission has warned in its memos, what the European Parliament voted in its amendments on the Foreign Political Committee. You remember our opposition to the HRT Act where we see what is happening now, what are the names of the editors and how media and personnel policies are conducted. You remember our opposition when we replaced the Administrative Council of HINA after less than a year to appoint people loyal to the current ruling coalition to this same administrative council. On the Media and Information Committee, we have discussed as well as this Parliament on the resolution of part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media and the appointment of part of the members of the Council for Electronic Media. I would like to point out that we have not received a list of all candidates and candidates on the board. That they were not invited to any talks, that their programmes were not taken into account, as was not conducted on HRT where talks were also not conducted, where programmes were not taken into account and where creative staff were not taken into account to make matters worse. In addition to the fact that we have not received any résumés from candidates and candidates who fulfil the conditions, today we are also proposed to appoint as one of the members of the Electronic Media Council a person acting simultaneously in the Governing Council of HINA. It is an incompatible duty because the Council for Electronic Media should be and is an independent regulator. There is no obligation of the person concerned to resign in his place in HINA if he is appointed to this place. There is unofficial information that the Ministry of Culture has asked the Government of the Republic of Croatia to resolve itself, but to this day after all these days of debate, which in the Committee, which we do not have any further guarantee in the House that it will be respected. Dear colleagues and colleagues have also seen in today's vote that the HDZ Club has been constructive in most legislative proposals, that it wants to participate in the progress of the Republic of Croatia. We invite you colleagues and colleagues to postpone this vote on this appointment next time, we ask you to consider what we are telling you. It is also in the interest of media freedoms in the Republic of Croatia, it is in the interest of the Republic of Croatia, it is in the interest of future trust of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia in the Council for Electronic Media, in an independent regulator that decides on the means of pluralism of the media that receive local radio and television stations. Dear colleagues and colleagues, we are ready to support the proposals submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia if today you from the representatives of the ruling coalition get the guarantee that functions will not be doubled. In addition, in a country that has 370,000 unemployed, where there are a number of prominent experts that you can see and the number of taxanes we have seen on the board, you will see that there are very respectable names that we have never seen in our lives. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I think this is a matter where consensus is needed, the same consensus that we appealed for when we were here discussing the Law on HRT because this is about the trust of all those who count on the impartiality of the Council for Electronic Media as an independent regulator. I also remind you that in the previous session you supported the work of the Electronic Media Council. We appeal to you, colleagues and colleagues, to give here today a public guarantee of party clubs that make up the ruling coalition that this will be respected and that there will be no conflict of interest. And that's what we think, this proposal as an ecultaneous example. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39042	Thank you, Your Honor. We're continuing our decision on the topics we've been working on. Therefore, the proposal for a Decision on the discharge of a part of the members of the Electronic Media Council and a proposal for a Decision appointing a part of a member of the Electronic Media Council. The debate on the proposals for decisions is closed. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision on discharge. Please raise your hand to make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Thank you very much. Who's restrained? Thank you. I'm asking for a result. I find that a majority vote, 78 in favour of and 1 abstention is taken to resolve the proposal. Thank you very much. I am voting on a proposal for a Decision appointing members. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? Thank you very much. I note that most of the 79 votes in favour of and 2 abstentions have been decided on the appointment of the members of the Electronic Media Council in the text as proposed by the Proposer. Dear colleagues and fellow MPs, we will now take a break in the meeting of the Croatian Parliament. We'll continue the session on May 22nd this year at 9.30 p.m. I want you to remember, in addition to the activities you will have in local and regional elections, that the Government has provided you with 20 laws waiting for you, so I ask you, with the political activities, to study these materials in order to be ready for the session to continue on 22 May this year. I wish you peaceful, democratic, local elections. Some citizens can decide in peace. Thank you very much. Session interrupted at 12.16 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39043	And we will discuss today - Proposal for a law supplementing the Law on hill-mounted areas, first reading, P.Z. No. 197 Proposer: Committee on Local and Regional Self-Government. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Regional Development and the European Union Funds, the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government. You received the reports at the session. The draft law will explain on behalf of the proposing president of the Committee on Local and Regional Regional Self-Government of counterpart Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39044	Okay, here I will briefly, on behalf of the promoter, consider here I must say in front of the Committee on Local Self-Government that after the request of the City of Novi Vinodolski, we have unanimously decided that this proposal for a law supplementing the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas is going into the procedure and we have unanimously supported this on the Committee on Local Self-Government. Following the adoption and giving of the Government's opinion in the discussion of the members of the Committee, it was particularly pointed out that I, as the chairman of the Committee, did not accept that draft law, since the City of Novi Vinodolski meets all the necessary legal and other criteria to be included in the mountainous and mountainous areas under the existing Law on Mountainous Areas, and further discussion also brought about the dissuasive views of other board members on the met criteria and the need for the inclusion of New Vinodolski in the mountainous and mountainous areas. Following the debate on the proposed Law on the completion of the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, three board members voted, while five board members voted against it. Therefore, on the basis of this vote, the Committee for Local and Regional Self-Government has proposed the following conclusion, that the Proposal for a Law on the Completion of the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas should not be adopted, and any objections, proposals and opinions will probably be sent to the Proposer for themselves, in order to draw up a final draft of the law. So here I'm going to stand as chairman of the Committee on Local Self-Government, and I'm going to say something, I'm not going to speak for 30 minutes, but I'm going to say something on behalf of the HDSSB club and more extensively about the very request of Vinodolski and something about the Hill and Mountain Area Act itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39045	Thank you. Would the representatives of the board like to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. We'll hear the club debate first. On behalf of the IDS Club and the independent representative of Cain, Damir Cain. He's gone. He's losing his right to argue. On behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39046	Thanks again. I must also point out on behalf of the HDSSB Club in order to be much more pleased that there is also a representative of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. I heard that all members of the Department of Economy in America, probably not the entire government, could at least have sent someone a lawyer. But first of all, I would like to draw attention to the existing Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas and remind myself of the justified request of the City of Novi Vinodolski since, above all, the number of inhabitants and criteria in force in the existing Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, which does not mention any other criteria, so neither the number of employees, nor the number of unemployed, nor the budget of local self-government, nor the development, so no other criterion other than the number of inhabitants per km2 is under the existing law obliging that a certain unit of local self-government would be placed in mountain-mounted areas. The government also adopted the opinion of the government which was completely and in 20.12.2012, it also adopted an opinion with a particular reason to give this negative opinion which I claim is that these reasons for giving a negative opinion are entirely unfounded and I will mention only some here. So in point 1 of the refusal of the initiative, the government points out that the town of Novi Vinodolski is a developed unit of local self-government, which, according to the government's decision of the Republic of Croatia, stands in the National Journal 89/10. sorted in the 4th group of units of local self-government with a value of 100% and 125% of the RH average. So it's an average-developed unit of local self-government that is based on that decision in the 50 most developed units of local self-government. This reason for refusal is unfounded because in the applicable law on mountain-mounted areas, this condition is not prescribed anywhere, so we have a situation that the Government of the Republic of Croatia does not respect Croatian law. It's a fact that happens even in this highly developed democracy. And that's why you can't get the status of a mountain-mounted area. Article 2 of the Law lays down the reasons where the unit of local self-government can be and can achieve the status of mountainous and mountainous areas and here this town of Novi Vinodolski refers exclusively to the provision of Article 3, paragraph 3, indent 3 of the Law, because it is the unit of local self-government located along the seashore and the only criterion is that it cannot have more than 20 inhabitants per square kilometre. According to the latest census, it's about nineteen sixty-three. Point 2 of point 2 of the refusal, i.e. the Government's opinion, is described in Article 2 of the Law, which is completely unfounded because paragraph 3, paragraph 3 of the Law and which only here can apply a clearly prescribed condition for units of local self-government located along the seashore. And it is surprising that the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes the right to write down something from the provision of the law that is completely unfounded by law and which does not fall within the government's jurisdiction. If it were to be an authentic interpretation of the provisions of Article 2 of this Act, then the same opinion can be given by the legislator or the Council of the Republic of Croatia through the Legislative Committee, which also discussed this issue where even some members of the ruling coalition opposed the way the Committee's opinion was adopted, because it was primarily meant to protect the existing law and not protect the government's opinion. Therefore, it is surprising and a description of the refusal in which the Government of the Republic of Croatia takes the right to describe definitions and standards in the census and to state that it is, therefore, in the government's opinion, that 19.63 inhabitants are by square, 63 or 53, and that someone would not think that we would divide a man into 63 or 53 parts, but it is statistically only slightly below 20 inhabitants per square kilometre. I wonder what it would be like, for example, in Novi Vinodolski, I agree that Novi Vinodolski is, in any case, a much richer unit of local self-government than many local self-government units in the continental part of Croatia. But what would be the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia if there were another political option in power in Novi Vinodolski. Then be assured that the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia would be identical to those of the law, identical. That's what happened on a series, so other examples. I have to say what I've been saying for some time now, so we've initiated this through the board and it's one of the board conclusions, but also the HDSSB club is proposing a complete, so the amendment and the Law on Special State Care and the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, because at this point I'm going to end it, because at this point 90% of Croatia are units of special state care, are units that, thanks to these expedient circumstances and practically more resources from that tax division, 90% of the units is also a mountain-mounted area regardless of whether it was altitude of 53 or 111 meters like Djakovo, such as many units of Slavonia and Baranja, Sisak or I don't know what. And that the obvious situation in Croatia is extremely difficult and that many units are local self-government because you can be sure that no one would ask for additional funds that is also in Dalmatia, here the city of Sinj could close its doors and not maintain the alka or maintain it for pride and glory, but they would not have the possibility and resources if they were not exactly mountainous and mountainous areas because they would have a far smaller budget and regardless of numerous bankruptcys that do not occur in Sinj, they happen in Djakov, they happen throughout Croatia. To make it far easier for all these units of local self-government not to have to re-open the doors of the ministries, drag the minister by the sleeve and be assured if you are not in a political option that is consistent with the authorities, ministers, etc. Be assured that there are honorable exceptions or signed contracts from before so he can't break the contract. But it's certainly not to get a lip, or a kuna for projects for which you've been issued and building permits, so you'll eventually be building off the road at Dubba or I don't know which settlements and villages you're in. And it was probably very necessary there, extremely necessary. Therefore, the HDSSB club appeals to the adoption of the Law on Fiscal Decentralisation, a full analysis of the situation in Croatia, in local, regional self-government, the adoption of laws that will put this local and regional self-government in an equal position. This will not make any regional development funds, no ministers, it can be decentralisation laws primarily fiscal decentralisation. And then we'll have a start-up and a Croatian economy, we'll have an increase in employees, and we won't have poor villages, cities and counties that will soon be sentenced to raising loans in banks, cutting grass and collecting leaves. Because a lot of people don't have it for that right now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39047	Replica, Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39048	Thank you very much. You asked your colleague Vinkovic what the government's opinion would be if by any chance this law were. The provisions of this law and this city that requires their status that someone else is in power in that city, so I think we need to speak openly here, that's a fact. The SDP has a desire to come to power in the town of Novi Vinodolski. He also announced his candidacy as a parliamentary representative. I'm sorry he's gone because there's talk of a city that matters to him. On his part, it is incomprehensible for him who wants to be mayor of such a city to challenge the city's ability to gain more resources. So I want to be mayor, but also as a member of the ruling coalition, I don't want this city to have any more resources. It's just incomprehensible. The question arises as to what kind of wish we send to our voters, citizens. I wish you well tomorrow, I will promise you everything, but when the state needs to give me what belongs to me under the law, then I'm against it. I don't want our budget to be 54 million kuna, but there it is, not 54 is now, so I don't want it to be 60 million kuna, but I want it to be 54 million kuna, and then we'll figure it out together. It's completely illogical, and of course the people who are there who unfortunately don't have a chance to hear this may have in the campaign to know that that's exactly what candidates do. And they won't give them a voice just because they don't understand the importance of their own functions. They'd rather bend their heads for some kind of policy than fight for the better of their citizens. And that must not be the task of politics.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39049	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39050	Thank you. Well, in short, a colleague has hurt Article 216 in a number of ways. The Rules of Procedure of the Croatian Parliament in a way that he did not speak on the subject, so he did not respond to the replica but spoke of a colleague he does not have. And he's also a colleague he didn't insult. Look, the SDP that the populist party would have adopted this bill, especially in pre-election time, but we didn't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39051	Thank you. Well, it's already been practice for us to give replicas and answers to the replica a little bit wider than the subject. We've introduced such a practice. Replication response, Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39052	I'm not even sure this was a breach of the Rules of Procedure, but it doesn't matter. No, I certainly won't announce the breach of the Rules of Procedure because I don't want to be the news at 12:00 p.m. with my colleague, Stazic, when he is insecurely running a session of the Croatian Parliament. Comrade Boric, wishes are one thing, opportunities are another. I'm not talking about populistism here, I'm not talking about local elections, I'm not talking about candidates, I'm not talking about why my SDP colleague isn't here, and I don't care if the SDP is a populist party, I know that the neoliberal party is no longer social democratic even though it's called that. I recommend that you change your name to NDP. It could be a UFO. But on the other hand, I'm here to say that there's a law on mountain-mounted areas that is defined, which has its own criteria. That one of the criteria for units of local self-government that are on the Adriatic coast is, therefore, located next to our beautiful Adriatic Sea that this criterion is undeveloped, not money in the budget, not the number of employees, not the income that is made there, but the number of inhabitants and the criterion of Novi Vinodolski meets 19.63. To enter the mountain-mounted area along the coast is 20 inhabitants per km square. Should the Government give an opinion on the law? Well, I don't think so. I don't think so, but it's the government that needs to obey the law. So is the Croatian Parliament. And who's going to vote that I don't know on Friday? I know I want to protect the law and the law is clear here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39053	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Josip Boris. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39054	Thank you very much, Vice President. So here I want to, Mr. Vinkovic is more or less on behalf of the promoter but also on behalf of the club said everything, but I want to say that here is a fully respected procedure. As early as the 9th month, the mayor of Novi Vinodolski, after the statistical results of the census were published, launched the initiative and took all the necessary steps to discuss it today in this House. I'm sorry it's been almost 7.8 months since and in the meantime we've changed a number of laws, especially regarding the formation of units of local self-government and the areas themselves that cover. We could have solved this law for sure. But again, I return to what I said, we come to the fact that the government simply does not want to comply with the laws that were once passed, does not want to respect the articles of these laws or criteria because it feels that it is more politically directed or better to leave it for a while or if it has to be shown about it, then invent a few ridiculous explanations in order to offend those same criteria that they write in the law. The town of Novi Vindolski is a local self-government unit located with its territory along the seashore, which with more than 50% of the surface is located in the hill-mounted area. The town of Novi Vindolski has 5 282 inhabitants and area 261,33 km2. They have nicely attached all the necessary documents to this, to this law or to their application. We have papers from the State Geodesy Administration, the Catastrian District Office that confirms this area, we have census statistics that say that the City of Novi Vindolski had 5282 inhabitants in 2001, and that according to the new census there are 5131 residents. When divided by another population density is 19.63 inhabitants per metre, per km2. So it has been proven that they respect the basic criteria so that you could be a unit of local self-government covered by the Law on mountainous mountainous areas. Whoever is in this law, here I will only list the cities of Buzet, Chabar, Delnice, Imotski, Lepoglava, Ogulin, Orahovica, Senj, note Senj, and then of the many municipalities of them twenty Matulji, very important. Why does it matter? So in the 12th month, did we get the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, which says first of all contests the Law on the mountainous area itself and says we cannot put it into that law because in the meantime we have passed a new Law on Regional Development which does not know such criteria, but only the development index applies according to the new ones. And then the government explains the development index and says the City of New Vindol is classified in the 4th group whose value of the development index is between 100 and 125%. They with their 119.6% are among the 50 most developed units of local self-government in Croatia. It has nothing to do with the initiative, it has nothing to do with the criteria known to the other law, the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area. Realising that this is not enough, that it is even funny that one law is disputed by criteria or some provisions of another law, then the government states that they cannot fall under mountainous and mountainous areas and then they say they are not geomorphologically well-assembled, and then they say that this law does not apply to self-governments covered by other laws that regulate the problems of areas where the state is further concerned, these are islands of the area of special state concern, it stands. Then they say that the law refers to local self-government that extends its territory along the seashore, with the exception of extremely few populated units of local self-government, expressed population density less than 20 inhabitants per km2. And now we get to Senj, Senj is a little further south than Novi Vindolski, it's the same by the sea, one part of his let's say the geomorphological composition is in the hills or near Velebit itself, or on Velebit and then this City of Senj can be in hill-mounted law, but the City of Novi Vindolski can't. Then it cannot be those who have a particularly high level of budgetary income and income per capita compared to the average units of local self-government that meet the basic geomorphological variables for entering the mountainous and mountainous areas. And now we get to Matulja, 10,000 inhabitants in the Matulji annually contribute to their budgets somewhere around 80 million kuna. If I can Matulji, if Senj can do it, why can't the New Vindolski? A simple question that flies or floats in the air, and we get guilty opinions, wrong opinions that have nothing to do with the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. They then explain the following, says the exclusion of coastal units of local self-government, including the City of Novi Vindolski, is explained by the fact that the coastal position itself in modern conditions represents a very significant development potential that enables these units to overcome the natural features that represent the difficult living conditions and working conditions of the inhabitants compared to the continental units. It's all the same again, Senj. So again another argument, all of these weren't enough to sort of challenge that important criterion, which is just the number of inhabitants and surfaces. Therefore, the Government further states in its argument, the explanation of the request by the applicant for the inclusion of the City of Novi Vindolski in mountainous and mountainous areas, based on data on the decline of the population identified by the 2011 census, does not hold the Government of the Republic of Croatia justified. The reason is that the population density of the town of Novi Vindolski fell only slightly below 20, 19.53 inhabitants per km2 while all other indicators clearly indicate that it is the unit of local self-government that has been developed above average in Croatian frameworks. In addition, it is not noteworthy that the statistical definition of the total population was used in the 2011 census has been partially amended in accordance with international standards, and the reduction of population may be partly due to a change in definition. Now, that was all necessary, so we questioned and the census, is that at all what it is, whether to believe that this city has a new list of 5131 residents, or someone wrote it in a clean order, so it used both the wrong methodology or the wrong methodology in 2001 to explain why a local self-government doesn't have the right to get status. I don't think it was necessary and that it wasn't far from what Mr. Vinkovic said was essentially the only policy that was to blame because the town of Novi Vinodolski couldn't get that status. In that city, HDZ, the mayor of HDZ, and the city wants to put under its own other political option SDP and they have their own candidates, and then it is possible only that this law came at a wrong time as well as some we have discussed in the past few months when it was possible to change the Law on County Areas, municipalities, cities for the citizens of one village not to pay more expensive kindergarten in another village if you remember because it was agreed by the ruling coalition and here where the criteria are clearer, cleaner, less ambiguous, the same is being challenged to prove that something that really stands is actually wrong, that the wrong list, that it is the wrong area, that it's geomorphological status or something else entirely. If in this way we continue to interpret all laws concerning local self-government, it is no wonder that this local self-government has come into status from this government as it has, to poverty to the end, not to help, not to give, so let it survive who can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39055	Replica Peja Grbin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39056	Thank you. So esteemed colleague Novi Vindolski is a beautiful, developed place which according to the development index belongs to the 50 most developed units of local self-government in the Republic of Croatia. The new Vinodolski is a city of valuable people but the findings of the audit also show that the New Vinodol City is not as valuable as the city's authorities that are now trying to dig holes in the budget with such legal proposals. The mountain mountain status is a status for underdeveloped municipalities and cities, and as I have already established at the beginning of this replica Novi Vinodolski it is not. The new Vinodolski cannot be compared to Chabra, for example, with Lokva, there is no comparison with Senj, because for example from Senj, which is largely here with Novi Vinodolski, there are multiple nights and incomes from tourists. Yeah, co-worker, stats. Check it out and you'll see. It can't be compared. Also, the status of mountain-mounted areas is for other things, for those to be helped. It is the task of Novi Vinodolski to redistribute her income and help those who cannot be financed in their area. If we were the populists as you previously found out that we were, or that we were, acting that way right before the election, we'd try to buy the elections, but no. We don't do it that way. We do not act in this way because we believe that when deciding on mountain-mounted status, other criteria must be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39057	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39058	You are a lawyer, and you are least expected to interpret the provisions of a law in such a broad way that even then nights eventually turn out to be the reason why someone should or should not be in some law. I wasn't making anything up. I just proved that the government's opinion doesn't stand because the examples show otherwise and I listed what it is. The town of Senj is no different from the town of Novi Vinodolski, and he and I don't even know have some large budgets but they have big enough to then fall out of the hill-mounted area of Matulja, which also has its share at sea. And then you caught yourself explaining why you didn't need any audit findings. The report on the city of Rijeka said that millions are being spent there, hundreds of millions are not intended but nothing is happening to anyone. Well, I don't know why that would be important for the city of Novi Vinodolski. There is one rule or city of Rijeka where other rules apply, which is only because the SDP is in power, so they can't be asked anything. I don't think that's supposed to be our assignment here in this House. Or we'll be making fair laws and I've already said that we have a lot of laws that put into discrimination. Well, we had the Sports Act recently. Someone's the world champion. They can't be rewarded. The second one's, he's laughing because he's playing the wrong sport. And not to speak yet of the mass of laws that we have brought for individuals, for individual groups, etc. Here is an obvious example of breaking Croatian laws because if something is written and fits the criteria then someone should be allowed to do so, even if it takes ten years or seven days if the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area is abolished and no one will have that status anymore, but then some Regional Development Ministry says we are abolishing the law clearly and not ambiguously and only the Regional Development Act applies. That's all we're looking for. Then there will be no injustice to anyone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39059	And Zoran Vinkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39060	You see a colleague, so I can't believe this even from the lawyers we hear that the government's opinion and that some other criteria that are not mentioned in this law are that that's what this House's decision needs to be taken into account, not the law that this House has passed. I now remind you of this insignificant. Be assured that in 19.53, I believe more information from the city of Novi Vinodolski than I believe and I don't care if the mayor of HDZ or SDP, not 19.63. In 2001 they had 20.16 per square mile. So slightly more than 20 and could not enter the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas. Now they have a slightly less than 20, 19.53, but I still can't get in. And before the local elections, look, there are a lot of colleagues who want to be something out of a variety of political options. The wishes are one thing, the possibilities are another, and the citizens already know who they're going to trust, so you don't have to be as much as I've heard and seen and noticed that the town of Novi Vinodolski is still supposed to be in hill-mounted areas because it's only partly located along the coast, and there's a village there called Ledenice. I'm even surprised, making good ones, salt files. There's an entrepreneur who does that, and they're amazing, so I'm very familiar with the situation. And this view of the government is violence against democracy and against Croatian laws.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39061	Reply to the replica Josip Boric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39062	I agree with my colleague Vinkovic. As to your surprise, Mr. Grbin is the chairman of the Parliamentary Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the Political System, if we are interpreting the provisions of the law at this level, then we have indeed come to that sentence by Mr. President-in-Office of Mr. Lek, who said that one thing is what he writes, and the other is what it is interpreted. And indeed, the government has made an effort to interpret it in one way so far, I mean the unmarked way. I remember even with the board of this gentleman from regional development it was even embarrassing to explain this because you state the 4 reasons why not, and none holds what the people say in the water, does not simply hold, there is no reason because that one criterion of the Law on mountainous areas is so strong that no one can challenge it, and that's the number of inhabitants per mile square and part of the city area or the municipality in hilly let's say status. They have everything and geomorphological characteristics to be there. And then the government challenged the population list that says it was some other methodology, so it's not 5 grand and 131, but it was maybe 6 grand, but that's the rule, so we don't give it. The truth is, there's now a political struggle going on, not to choose the means. The SDP wants this city so badly because they've lost it for two terms, they'll lose it again because exactly what I said if you fight for your end, for your people in a way that you don't give them what the law belongs to, then you're a guilty candidate and you're done. And that's for sure what people will see and recognize. That's why I'm not worried. And this will come back on the agenda, it can come back on the agenda. But if the government doesn't lift the law, it certainly will.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39063	Thank you. You know that out of 1.7 new criteria will apply and that the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area and the Law of Special State Care will no longer be but we will only have the Law on Regional Development. ... Yes, yes, well, I'm telling you that the amendments to the law and to each other were brought three years ago when we co-ordinated with state aids in the EU. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] We're moving on to an individual debate. Zlatko Komadina, not present, loses his right to debate. Also Boris Blazekovic. And a five-minute debate on behalf of the HDSSB club Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39064	So this is not a law I welcome everything on behalf of the HDSSB Club this is not an emergency law, so this is a law that will go to another reading. But I am surprised by you, too, that you, the Vice President of this House, are interpreting what the Government will bring only 1.7, so that means here until 1.7, that, as you put it, I have read everything. So we have an existing Law on mountainous and mountainous areas of fellow Members who should respect this Constitution which is not, however, regardless of the consolidated text but is not imposed in the opinion of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Croatia to return certain provisions, etc. If the publisher couldn't write things down, but if we came to such a position that we gave certain opinions to the text of the law and interpreted the law in our own way, and I would say by political likeness, then someone from these high circles that lead this country, and they don't even know where the waters start here, for example. interpret this Constitution and let your colleagues tell you in Article 55. The Constitution states that everyone has the right to work and freedom of work, that everyone freely chooses invitations and employment and that under equal conditions every job and duty is available and that if they violate that article of the law to be understood because it is employed in a political similarity but that, for example, The government has interpreted that no one has the right to freedom of work anymore, not to mention some other freedoms. See, this can happen with the Constitution and the interpretation of the Government, and as interpreted by the Legislative Committee, the Constitution is also visible in our Rules of Procedure. And even today, we have an existing Rules of Procedure published in the NN and we have this desire about order in the assembly that practically turned that desire I would not say into a mess, but to fail to find this new Croatian government to present first of all what little they have done good, and they have done something good to the heart, but 99.5% have done bad. The only good thing we could do is leave as soon as possible and discuss early elections. And this view of the government, given the current law, is violence against democracy, violence, terror. This is Belfast in the Croatian Parliament, but that bloody Belfast, not to mention the Middle East and some other stuff. This government, respecting the existing Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, kidnaps those two jets and one-by-one strikes at those world malls. This is the government, a government that does not respect the law passed by the Croatian Parliament, which is the only Law on mountainous and mountainous areas. Whether the Ministry of Regional Development will propose whether this Parliament will pass the law, that is another thing and whether this Parliament will put aside the Law on mountainous and mountainous areas, the Law on Special State Care, that is something else. I argue that today Croatia is in such a situation that it is necessary to go all the way to intensive care, not with Rajko Ostojić but with financial intensive care because it is not laws that decentralise Croatia, which can run Croatia but laws that run it, if you remember me while I was in what was once called social democracy that leads to break-in, and now you're leading to a break-in and you're going on and we're yelling, we're going on, just not with these trains in Krapina-Zagorian County that...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39065	Time. Thank you very much. If you and your colleague Winkovic were to respect the Rules of Procedure as you speak of the law, then it would be another matter. ... You've talked about everything now, just not the law, but I won't give you any warning because it's incorrigible. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Comrade Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39066	Thank you very much. I agree with you fellow Vinkovic in this final presentation where you said this was an attack, i.e. how you said this was a terror over the laws of the Republic of Croatia. We discussed the Water Economy Financing Act yesterday where you, the Minister of Agriculture, explain that no council can be above the decisions of the municipal and city council. He says we can even your contribution. Compensation for development as we believe it should be. There's a question of where we're going that way. And the rest of Article 58a in that law, no one's going to change it. Today, this interpretation as it is, indeed, who can even stand in defense of that local self-government, no one. It's just like that. If the power of the I.E. The government wants you to do something or you can't. As for the Law on the Mountain and Mountain Area, I keep asking someone, asking the Minister of Regional Development. They say no, we won't cancel. Because these laws and mountain-mounted and PPDS and islands did not comply with the acquis of the European Union, they do not defend us with specific measures to help assisted areas. And bringing it down to the Regional Development Act it's just... some infrastructure so now for the development index you can get 5, 10 or 30 or 100% of some means, is actually not knowing the material or matter. So these laws, especially mountain-mounted areas, give certain reliefs to every resident, municipality, city that the state can give, no one defends them, as well as the PPDS, on the islands. It is not at all a question of abolishing the Law on Islands, so the question is why would they abolish the Law on the Mountains. But that's what everyone's saying quietly, no one's going to say loud, why, because we're going to the election. So you tell Gorski Kotar now that you're going to end it here. If that's true, then we know what the campaign is going to be, that these people know that their budgets are going to be up to 50 and 70% less than they are now, but nobody's saying it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39067	Thank you. Reply to the replica Zoran Vinkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39068	I'm still going back to this law and I'm not going to take my word on behalf of the promoter. We need to respect the law that's in force and there's a very clear criterion, that's the number of inhabitants per km2, that's not the number of nights, that's not the number of drunk coffees there on the Vindol Riviera, that's not shopping at that mall, that's not jumping with the one where they tie you to your feet and let you down, I don't really like it. It's the number of people, it's not banging on the head, and apparently someone wants to bang on the head. 19.53 per km2. Not coffee with cream, not a toothpick or a wrinkle that maybe I connect when I go there or a carp or a cool Slavonese to change. It's the population number, etc., etc. But we now have lawyers who say no, no, the government's opinion is above the law. So my party boss's opinion is more important than the law. Comrade Zoki said he can't and can't, and now you know how to run the campaign you'd say that to the citizens of Vinodolski, Comrade Zoki won't. Not me, I'm advocating to uphold the law, and even this Rules of Procedure, which has not been published in the People's Journal, but on that after.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39069	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. Tomorrow, at 9.30 p.m., we will begin the debate on the proposal for a strategy for the development of tourism of the Republic of Croatia by 2020. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-04-24-0.u39070	Proposal for a Law supplementing the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, first reading, P.Z. No. 197. The Proposer of the Law is the Committee for Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government. The debate is closed. I give the following conclusion to the proposals from the working bodies: I do not accept the proposal for a law supplementing the Law on mountainous areas proposed by the Committee on Local, Regional and Regional Self-Government for the reasons set out in the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, reports by the working bodies. I'd like to make a statement on the proposal for a conclusion. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. Thank you very much. I find it unanimous with 101 votes for the proposed conclusion.
