ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30482	My colleagues and colleagues, good morning. We're continuing the session. We will discuss - Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency in 2011 The Reportor is the Croatian Small Economy Agency based on Article 15. A law to encourage the development of a small economy. You received the material by mail. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Economy, the Committee on Finance and the State Budget, the Committee on Gender Equality. You received the reports at the session. Does the promoter want to take the opening word? Hamag Management President Darko Liovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30483	Dear Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, esteemed ladies and gentlemen representatives in the Croatian Parliament. In front of you is the report on the work of the Croatian Agency for Small Economy in 2011. The fact that you are presented with the work of the Croatian Small Economy Agency from 2011 today in February 2013 gives us the opportunity to analyse in one light the work of the Croatian Small Economy Agency in 2011 as we can compare the data from 2011 to the recent recent recent data from 2012 which certainly gives a better comparison than when the data are compared in 2011 and 2010. Allow me also to express my restraint at the beginning of my presentation as president of the agency that took over the work and management of the agency in March 2012 and not only because of the fact that we did not, of course we cannot defend what someone else was doing but also because of these results and statistics that we achieved in 2012 which show clearly that HAMAG in 2011 should and could have taken a better and more active role in encouraging small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia. Dear MPs, esteemed MPs, allow me, therefore, to present to you in a few minutes statistics on the work of HAMAG in 2011, and as regards the activities, I believe that you know that HAMAG is a central agency for the promotion of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in the Republic of Croatia, and that it is from a number of instruments that the legislator has given to HAMAG to be available in terms of fostering small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. In 2011, HAMAG mainly used three instruments, such as the issuing of guarantees, and then the implementation of an operational programme of grant approval and provision, i.e. co-financing of consulting services to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. In short, I will show statistics, i.e. present statistics. In particular, a total of 112 guarantees and the value of HAMAG guarantees issued in 2011 were granted in the most important activity in the issue of guarantees. During this period, in 2011, the value of the stimulated investments through the guarantees of the Croatian Small Economy Agency amounted to 494 million kuna. As I said, I will use little data for 2012 and I will only say for comparison that in 2012 we issued 243 guarantees to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, that we issued a total of 315 million kuna guarantees and that through these guarantees we encouraged 924 million kuna investments in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector, which represents an increase of 87% compared to 2011. The work intensity in 2011 is also the fact that in the last quarter of 2012 we received 189 requests for guarantees, which is 600% more than in the same period in 2011. As regards the structure of the guarantees issued under the programmes themselves, I must therefore say that the structure in 2011 was such that the most supported was what was to be supported, which is therefore new investments and growth of 46 guarantees issued, but a total of 41% of the guarantees issued, the farm with 28%, the support of liquidity or the possibility of obtaining a credit for crafts assets at an average of 18%, while for new entrepreneurs, i.e. 15 guarantees or 13%, respectively. In 2012, the structure remained about the same, with a significant increase in the number of guarantees issued by all programmes, and what is particularly happy, therefore, that there has been growth in new investments in programmes that support new investments and, therefore, in the segment of the promotion of new start-up entrepreneurs where in 2012 we issued 51 compared to 15 guarantees. As regards activated guarantees, allow me to inform you that in 2011, we paid 19.7 million kuna in total from the budget, which was activated 18 guarantees. As regards the second segment, namely support or operational plan of implementation of the so-called operational plan to encourage small and medium-sized enterprises through grants in 2011, HAMAG implemented a total of five projects, namely: strengthening the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises, entrepreneurship of young and beginners, entrepreneurship in culture, development of traditional crafts and cooperative entrepreneurship where in 2011, we approved a total of 1819 grants of 55.8 million kuna. As it can be noted, these support was more social measures than measures to develop entrepreneurship because the average amount of support granted by all programmes was only 32000 kuna, and if you take the targeted programmes, say youth entrepreneurship and beginner entrepreneurship, then the average amount of support granted was 6611.57 kuna, which is definitely not the amount to be encouraged by entrepreneurship. In 2012, we took a new direction, implemented a new philosophy in the grant of grants in a way that these support was more generous, that on average they increased from 32500 kuna in 2011 to 164,000 kuna in 2012 because we believe that only by supporting quality and potential projects can we achieve positive effects in the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Of course, as a consequence, the percentage of the support granted was extremely high in 2011, so 55% of the companies reported received support, the grants in these amounts I was talking about. As regards the third main activities of the Croatian Small Economy Agency, which is therefore the provision and co-financing of consulting services in 2011 HAMAG supported 137 projects through the voucher system for which 875000 kuna were paid out of the Croatian budget. So here's the briefs, so the statistical indicators. It's something you can see in your materials so you get at the session itself. As I said, HAMAG must and should take a stronger and more significant role in promoting the development of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and all the activities that we have undertaken in 2012 are just going in this direction, which is that we have changed and brought new ones, we have introduced new guarantee programmes, we have changed the philosophy of providing support, we have started to deal with other activities, which is, therefore, the support and promotion of investments in the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Sector, and for 2013, we have even more ambitious plans. Here's a thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30484	Thank you very much. Do the Committee's rapporteurs want to take the floor? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the club representatives' turn. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Đuro Popiac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30485	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, Mr. Director, colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. Although there is no topic on the agenda of the report and the work of HAMAG since 2012 we have heard the largest part of the exhibition of the introductions. Just one data set and a comparison of what HAMAG was doing in 2011 compared to 2012. There will be time and space to talk about what the Government did, of course, through this Agency in 2012 and what are the results. However, when he was already a young colleague, he took the right to think about that life beginning and the world when he came to that agency as his bosses finally thought when they took power that it all began when they took over the result was obvious. Let me remind him, maybe he doesn't know that. In 2012, the gross social product fell 1.8%. The consumption dropped by more than 6%, while colleagues and colleagues in 2011 consumption increased by 4% on average. The decline in industrial production hangs by 6%, the drop in exports, the drop in imports, the drop in investments, but what of course characterized the highest in 2012 and that is the enormous growth of the unemployed and precisely in the category of medium and small entrepreneurs, unfortunately. The largest number of people who came from the world working at the Employment Service came from the Sector of Medium and Small Entrepreneurs. And that's the result of this government's work and that's of course given that hamag is part of the government's infrastructure that's the result of the work and hamag this year. And no number-cutting and no competition that's been trying here the whole time won't hide that fact. 60,000 people in 2012 are more on the market than it was in 2011. It rings the alarm, it's an alarm of course that needs to be triggered and it should be enough signal to this government and to all of us and a good indicator that something's wrong, and it's actually nothing wrong. The entire and overall economic policy of this government was about how to increase the tax audit, how to make entrepreneurs and businessmen enemies of society, how to publish various pillars of shame with no effect and how to further worsen the economic investment climate. And that's the results. And that's a fact. And it's undeniable and it's inconclusive. And boast therefore and compare such an economic situation with 2011 you can, of course, but you will see the execution of these figures. And of course a new credit rating, that I'm not saying, I'm not saying it, but it's ugly to hear that the world that evaluates what's going to happen, not what's happened, so all the assumptions about whether the government is doing good and quality economic assumptions, measures and guidelines to make tomorrow better on the basis of that and these forecasts that tomorrow will be based on what the government has done so far and what it's doing today we're in credit trash. And it's a sad fact and it's the sad truth of what's the result of this government's work and all those agencies that are unfortunately human and in every way devastated, so obviously the result is this. HAMAG, of course, has been functioning for more than ten years and will, of course, continue to function with its function, with its role in 2011 and has been one of the significant wheels or link in the chain of the overall economic policy and economic recovery measures. Well, the fact is, and you can't argue that in 2011, there was a slight recovery of the Croatian economy because in two quarters, of course, we also had a mild economic growth which you will find very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very. So from 0.8% and 0.2% to end the year with zero and end the year with an average unemployment of 305,000. In 2012, the average unemployment rate was 338 thousand. Thus, these figures themselves state who is in what time and what space made better economic measures. HAMAG therefore has been working for many years on its core function, which is primarily guarantees for medium and small entrepreneurs but guarantees of course for loans which are primarily and which are generally assessed by business banks. For 2011, therefore, something is guaranteed for more than 500 million kuna loans. There were about 145 requests that came from all Croatian banks and therefore, after assessing and assessing certain risks of the Croatian bank, send guarantees to the Croatian small economy agency. And this certainly was a significant incentive for the recovery of that part of the Croatian economy, and that part of the Croatian economy, of course, helped to stop the negative trends in 2011 and start a mild recovery. In 2012, chaos and fatigue and entrepreneurship, of course due to the dramatic growth of the unemployed, and unfortunately this trend continues. Well, for the first time in the last year, we had a growth in unemployment in the middle of the tourist season. Whom more can be convinced of both what and what arguments the government has done well. The increase in VAT, clashed with private entrepreneurship, introduced retroactive taxes such as profit tax, increased business costs by more than 10%. So it's hard to count more and more what the government managed to break in 2012. In 2012, Hamag, of course, did a great deal of one part of the operational programme of fostering medium and small entrepreneurship, and it had in its portfolio these 50-ac, 56 million kuna. It's ugly to hear, so from the current director of the agency saying it was social aid. I haven't heard an insult bigger for Croatian businessmen than that in a long time. It deserves a public apology. It shames me in Parliament to listen to it. I apologize here in front of this part of the Croatian Parliament. Everything that has been allocated for years and has only been awarded to successful ones, only good ones who have increased their economic activities, only those who have increased or retained what was extremely difficult in 2010, 2011 their economic activities and this little money meant life to them sometimes. It's a shame that one of the civil servants is talking about any of the entrepreneurs getting any kind of social benefit. So, what was of course and what was part of the overall incentives for 2011 it did very successfully and quality HAMAG and it was one of those parts. The total amount of support for the Ministry of Economy alone for the small and medium-sized economy was around less than 400 million kuna, which did not increase all 2012. And despite what I see, Mr. Minister has come and I welcome him, which is what the minister says for the first time this year, as never before, 700 million kunas, he always forgets to say that 300 million kunas in the 2012 budget, i.e. 300 million kuna, are foreseen for funds for economic co-operation. And that's something else. That's what it's meant to be focused on, as these funds have been created, to invest in risk projects, not banks that this government has started to work for. Therefore, economic co-operation funds are not designed to extract fallen banks, but to help and invest in quality economic programmes, those that cannot receive support and which cannot obtain loans from the banking sector. So thank God that this year too, there are 400 million kunas that will go as direct support to the Croatian economy, and I believe that these 300 million kuna will still end in real projects through the funds for economic co-operation. Of course, the project itself of a network of consultants that has been held for the same 10 years has produced its results, 875 thousand kuna is placed in this project and the response itself is extremely good. And without further ado, so Hamag has certain administrative bodies and the administrative bodies among other things here are the board of directors, i.e. the board of directors. And now here we have the conclusion of a governing council signed by the current president who says a report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency in 2011, signed by Minister Maras, and then here is his director of the agency's report today. It is true that Minister Maras is also having second thoughts at the cabinet session and is talking about that, here is all that needs to be taken into account, so now that you are taking note of all this I have said about the results of your economic policy since 2012. So the Governing Council accepts the report, and the government says the minister disagrees, but needs to be informed. Why? On the Governing Council, of course there are also people who are not only from the administration but also from the economy and they probably had a slightly different opinion on what and how HAMAG was doing in 2011. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30486	Thank you. Replica Ivan Klarin.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30487	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You, Mr. Drinker, don't apologize on behalf of Hamag. It would be enough to apologize on behalf of the government where you were Minister of Economy and literally threw this country on your knees. That would be enough for the Croatian public, apologize on behalf of you personally and on behalf of the Ministry of Economy which you were headed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30488	The answer to the replica of Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30489	I'm sorry, you're a young man, I didn't remember your name, I'll look for it. In 2011, 2 quarters growth in the economy was 0.8% and 0.2%, they ended up with 0. The growth in consumption is 4%, export growth and decline, and the slow trend of unemployment falls and, of course, the end of accession and entry negotiations for full EU membership. What did your government do in 2012, do you want me to repeat it all to you in this minute? I don't think that's necessary, if you haven't remembered, here's a phonogram or all the statistics that are available to you and you'll see who needs to apologize. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30490	Thank you. The word was requested by Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30491	Thank you very much, well-respected fellow MPs. Here I would say that it is good that the minister also calls when it comes to the issue of the Agency for a small economy, although in the term of the previous government we did not have a case quite often, but people appeared, I would say, only from the agency and then they gave a technical report where there was not much to read at all. And to remove immediately this and Mr. Poppie's concerns about this is accepted, not accepted, etc. and experts on the Management Board, I am convinced that now the people on the Management Board who are sitting are absolutely competent and can talk about it in a way that is good or bad. And they're talking about what's different from what was before and what's right now, so you consult people and then you'll hear their suggestion and their sense of whether it used to be one way or another, and whether it's better or worse now. Of course we weren't happy with the work. And when you accept the report, you accept it because it's technical and what happened, and you can't accept it because you can't take history back, so we're all here older than the beginning of the debate, 25 minutes and you can't deny what happened, what happened before that time, and that's why you accept it, not because you're satisfied. If we were satisfied then the administration and those who ran the agency would stay, and since we weren't satisfied, we changed and that's the legitimacy of, say, the Management Board according to what it thinks about the work it's done so far. But you should not look at what happened, you should just look at the data, your colleague Lijovic said it very nicely in his presentation. And the ratio of what was in 2011, what was the 2012 concept and how unnecessary money was spent in Croatia in the last 7.8 years on a model that did not produce any results. You tell me you'd call 5 grand in support of 30, 15, 5 grand in kuna, what's the use of that and whether any control can ever be effectively carried out over such a system. Well, of course not, people came forward and asked for support for the project, a small entrepreneur, a micro-enterprise of 100,000 kunas, and then someone decided, and about how it was decided, it's written a lot, that they're not going to get 100, but they're going to get 15, and then one of the other guys who might be a little more likable is going to get 30. There are no criteria. The shocking approach never, ever for the purpose of fulfilling the project that the entrepreneur applied for, and should only look at and monitor the Ministry of Finance on this matter, as it was justified, as it was granted, but I will not talk about it now because I do not want to look behind myself, those who have to take care of it now, to see why the procedure was not respected and why, I would say, those procedures that were conducted in the context of the granting of support were not transparent and were not fulfilled at the end of the purpose. And that's why I'm a little surprised when with such a thing, killing the heat and concern is being spoken of by a man who was a member of the board of directors and chairman of the HAMAG. It's exactly where I say it's given support, an odmicative approach to a recommendation to a pusher, etc. So it's gone and it's going to be here, and I can say it very clearly and transparently, no more pushers, no more emails, no more suggestions than all sorts of influential people. There will be no recommendation for someone to get or not get support just as there will be no support that will be given at least five thousand kunas it will be good for me. Such support policy will no longer be seen in the Croatian Government and in the agencies implementing the Croatian Government's policy, because it is dusting, literally dusting. You give it to everyone and then you give it to those you like ten times as much. This is the kind of policy that will no longer apply to us. And I answer this very responsibly because I did an analysis of what was going on and that's why we changed the logic of granting support already in 20152. In years, and now from Saturday, when a new tender is launched, we are going to go with a complete reform where people will be able to report one by one, where they will evaluate to every detail a project that is supported because we are going to insist that these projects eventually come to life and that what people wanted money for and for which they applied, because every year we are going to allocate more and more and more in support of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship because we are going to get more and more money from EU funds because we have to accept the standard that the EU would not want us to accept and that is why we are preparing ourselves. If the policy had been implemented as 2011 we could neither apply nor receive EU money to have them and since next year, Croatian money is European, so when we enter the EU we must and must meet those highest standards. And you will say yourself here from this data what my colleague Liovic said whether or not and how it has been successful so far and whether, for example, the information that speaks only of the last quarter when a new guarantee programme has actually been implemented and when the government has brought it in for the fourth and fifth months until it's signed with the banks and watch out for the HAMAG guarantee agency had no real agreements with all Croatian banks. As far as these banks generally took the tool offered by the State to small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, it was appropriate. No one wanted to work with them, what would make them a pillow that wasn't worth it, they had to take a month, two to sign agreements with banks, and the first quarter was the last place where instead of in 2011, say when 20 guarantees were issued, in 2012. 126, it means 6 hundred 30% and 5 hundred 70% more investment in this year's very difficult case of Mr. Popeye talking about. So almost 6 times more investments through HAMAG made in the last quarter compared to 2011 and when we talk about the whole year, that last quarter also made a dramatic shift with almost 217% more guarantees issued and 187% means compared to the previous year of investment. So nearly five hundred million kunas more investments were made through HAMAG. Now we can say that it was perfect in 2011 but then this is supermenic, but I don't think this is supermenic or that it's perfect. I think this is good, and I think this year 2013 as far as HAMAG is concerned, it'll be even better. And as for the sector itself, I can be happy with the results when we look at the overall economic results in Croatia, small and medium-sized entrepreneurs have grown in both income and foreign and export 10%, in the number of employees and in investments, the percentages are 2.3.4% higher than compared to 2011 and, in fact, the small and medium-sized economies have shown positive results of restructuring of large companies' industries, leading to a certain drop in GDP, which is likely to be 1.7.1-8% at the end of the year, but this is the building, it is petrochemia and such industries that have led to a total economic downturn in small and medium-sized enterprises, and this year will be even better. And now I'm just going to look back on the FGS, or Mr. Poppie's concerns about FGS's investments. Unfortunately, I've done a lot of FGS this year more than in this organisational work and systematic work because of what the previous government did not deal with it, so we've seen what the FGS's fees were in 2011 and how much investments were, and de facto, for none of the people invested, they made compensation and it wasn't about what they did, and we changed that this year. First, we cut the fee at the beginning of the year and now we have changed the way in which the third year's prize will be realized and for the investments that will take place in the third year. It would be much easier for me if the previous government had created a system that is normal and that stimulates work and investment and not collecting fees but look, as legalists, you have to take over the system that has left you someone before you and try to change how you think it is more correct and on the other hand, of course it's very difficult, given that it's contractual obligations where you have to convince other investors and societies to accept these new conditions, but what you're going to do. We're not gonna complain, we're trying to do the best we can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30492	The Republic is owned by Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30493	Dear Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary. I'm glad we rarely have opportunities in the Parliament to discuss economic issues. Before the replica of you, I'd just like to correct Mr. Drinker when he said it was hard to count what you didn't do wrong. I'd help Mr. Drinker, so I'd say that everything you've done has been done wrong and it's all done wrong in an economic sense. And you don't even have to try to list it because everything's done wrong. But I'm replicating you, Mr. Minister, because you said you were happy with this, this frame so you wouldn't change it. Since you were unhappy that you changed it is not the essence of the matter, the point is that you employed 5,000 inhabitants in Croatia needlessly. And you were saying that you had to fire the clerks and you were firing officials on HEP after ZET, which I know about HH and five thousand new officials, you cheated on Croatia. And that gathered the state administration and we have concrete evidence. But what I want to tell you in general, your economic policy is a failure, here in the Parliament I told you five, six months ago I said I'll see you at the end of the year. Your economic policy is missed she doesn't give the results and if we were to be most generous by the end of this year if things don't work out if the indicators don't go down, then we're going down to the sink and if we had to in one second tell me what your policy is, as stubborn as Hitler at Stalingrad. When the generals told him to pull out this didn't yield results, not stubbornly and so did Stalingrad and in other... victims over a million people. And that's how he lost his war by promising some secret weapon that he ended up as he ended up. That's how your economic policy ends. You're buying time, now you've said that in five, six months it'll be even better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30494	Thank you very much. We've heard a lot now, thank you very much. ... Thank you very much, dear colleague. [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]] A little comparisons, however, take care of comparisons when discussing them. ... You didn't get the word. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Please sit down. The reply to the replica of Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30495	I also join Mr. Marasovic's request don't fix it because he won't fix himself, but it's almost impossible. Yeah, yeah, here's some help if I can give. [[Intruder: And you respond to the replica.]] As far as Mr. Marasovic is concerned, he said some things very casually, mentioning 5 thousand officials and catching this one and having no positive results. I'm saying there is. And the statistics also say this report and the data that your colleague Liovic told you is twice as good as it was a year ago, so I hope you will recognize that someone is trying to change something and that there is a certain shift compared to what was done before. And as far as the sector is concerned, he's better than he was in 2011. And don't talk about economic policy because I don't know how after five years of recession since 2008 and the de facto of what you left behind you even had the nerve to talk about what's wrong, I'm saying that you can hardly change trends after five years in three months and I'm saying that these trends are going to change in 2013 and that we're going to get out of recession and for the first time we're going to have positive economic growth rates. But I would like people who haven't been involved in this way to criticise the policy of those who haven't de facto for five years, and even more have ruined this country especially in this economic part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30496	Replica Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30497	Thank you, Madam Vice President. It's a good thing we finally heard that it's not exactly what you've been propagating in a series of PR shows that this year you're going to give 700 million kunas of direct support to small and medium-sized enterprises, but that 300 million kuna of these support is foreseen for participation in funds for economic co-operation. They were formed in 2011 and over 400 projects in that year were analysed by funds. Of course it was to be expected that some of them would be realized. But the first one you've realized is that you've blown 100 million kunas I won't mention a bank from the funds for economic co-operation. They weren't overlooked for how much and what projects you're going to place these 300 million on. We're going to see that. So in this year, the 400 million as it has always been foreseen for direct support to small and medium-sized enterprises. What you've said in the way that they've been shared and supported, it's so actually degutant that I'm even commenting on it. Do whatever you want from it. But the results of this brilliant policy of yours are quite obvious to you in 2012. A decline of minus 1.8%, a decline in consumption of 6%, a drop in industrial production of 6%, a drop in investments you swore would happen to the unseen outwards, of course, now you're changing everything, so now you're no longer public investment current because you saw that there's nothing you can do, and what you're saying is that nothing has been prepared is a simple lie, you've stopped everything, and now you're turning to private entrepreneurship and now they're good for you and they're good. And what you did to that private entrepreneurship last year is better off not talking about it and unfortunately it will not be able to recover for years.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30498	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30499	Thank you very much. Look, I don't know what kind of masochist these prepared projects are already waiting for, so the pluggers are on and moving on to the construction site so you can stop them. Well, no one's going to do it, and all of it is that you don't love the world the most who prepared it. That's bullshit. There was nothing. Who wouldn't do that, who wouldn't be absolutely behind it. Well, Mr. Schucker, since the hearing is 45 minutes, sign up and you'll still be there and you can tell us everything you think. So everything was unprepared and it just wasn't possible to start investments before, and we absolutely have to make even more efforts to get them going. As regards support, when documents are adopted in the Government, the document should be read and what it is called. So it's called "Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Encouragement Plan" and all those segments that cover it are not exclusively grants, but also some investments such as economic co-operation funds, some interest subsidies, some guarantees issued by HAMAG all have a part of this program's Entrepreneurship Impulse. And I'm not saying anywhere, nor am I going to say that we're going to share 730 million kunas, although when you say divide them, we're not going to share them as we've shared them so far, but we're going to share them and assign them for what we think they can give the result, and not the way it's done so far, but we're not going to do that anymore. As for the funds of economic co-operation, this is what you said we blew, an interesting expression, I don't even know what that means. We blew 100 million kunas, we didn't blow 100 million kunas, we invested 100 million kunas, not just us, but a private investor who's with us in the project. So if you remember or know, we can't make a decision on our own, but it has to be a private investor who's going to invest half the money, and out of these empty 100 million kunas of state money is not 100 ng less than 50. Here's so much about what you're saying, or what you know about this whole model, because the state didn't invest 100 or less than 50 million.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30500	Injury of the Rules of Procedure, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30501	Madam Vice-President, in the old statute, this is Article 216, Mr Maras and ministers of this Kukuriku coalition should learn when they come to this High House to respect parliamentary representatives and that they cannot act as if they are on the payroll because this is the highest House of the Croatian People and everyone here who has been elected has been chosen by the Croatian people. That you will speak to the intercessor about when they will come forward and if they will argue, you simply have no right to do so. You've come to our house, you've chosen to behave according to the way a decent guest behaves, and you're a terribly rude guest, and obviously when you don't have arguments, then you're offended because you're generally known as such a man, and your self-service that you want to make from a business bank, don't God forbid that HDZ has rescheduled a private bank, and that this bank credits some companies that are very closely linked to the members of the government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30502	Thank you very much. We have introduced the practice of throwing from the bench, different comparisons that are not suitable for one parliament, and then when you are personally affected, then you complain and seek protection. I don't think it was in that sense a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and if you are unhappy, please report to the Constitutional Committee. And Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30503	Here's the Honorable Minister, it's our interest for all of us to have the Croatian economy and the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship moving forward, but I'd be here at the moment since this report is for 2011, I think it would be good if we got the report right away for 2012, but I would stay away from these statements of great happiness because there are other statistics, that every day we have more and more unemployed, that statistics show that we have a decline in GDP, that we have a decline in economic activity, etc., etc. So let's stay out of luck. The interest of all is to reduce the number of over 400 thousand unemployed, to open jobs every day, and who will be happy will be the one who gets that job, the most beautiful place in the world, the job.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30504	Replication response, Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30505	Thank you very much, Mr. Representative. I'm glad I can answer one and a valid replica about the report itself, but it just couldn't have come sooner for a variety of reasons. This for 2012 will come with a promise in the next 2, 3 months so that we can obtain timely information and I would say we are not here, I do not know what luck I am expressing satisfaction with the fact that the progress in the work of this agency is seen from these figures, which I think the system of support we are giving this year is much more quality and ultimately the results in the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector are nevertheless positive regardless of the generally negative picture of the Croatian economy. So I can't be unhappy with that, and that's why I'm saying that I'm happy and that we're going to try to make the results even more, and I'm glad that I can replicate it and that you didn't recognize it in my debate and the replica something extremely rude as the generally known competent representative, Mr. Schuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30506	Please, Minister Maras, don't comment on the debates of MPs you don't respond to. Injury of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30507	Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, I warn you on behalf of the dignity of the parliamentary representatives that this rude member who successfully imitates his party president and Government warns you that he behaves politely in the Croatian Assembly because it is an elementary courtesy and home education, and this rude behavior is a disgrace to Croatia...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30508	Comrade Shucker, please. You didn't call for an article... Only later and for the first time have I told you that you have the right to call, or to address the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system, and do not lose the right until the end of this session that you do not have the right to amend, or to violate the Rules of Procedure. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] And I have already warned the minister not to comment on the MPs during the debate. Thank you very much. We're continuing the debate. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists-Party of Work, colleague Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30509	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. So here I think those 198 thousand 529 entrepreneurs, small entrepreneurs and craftsmen in the Republic of Croatia really don't have any of this so that we here in this House are fighting who did what, who didn't do it and who's going to do it. In 2011, they survived, continued to work as they continued to do as best they knew and did. And now they expect both of you ministers and of us here in the Parliament to be the smartest we can be and the most constructive because of them, and then for all of us together. Ministers, when you speak here after this pay phone that the money is needlessly spent and when you charge someone, it would be desirable that some of them be publicly called to you if the money was somehow wasted and not spent on purpose the way they were supposed to be spent. And if you don't mean to do it then refrain from commenting like that. You've been somewhere at the beginning of your term of office for the 376 million kuna investment has also announced 4,000 new jobs. Unfortunately, we lost 76,000 jobs, so here's when we talk about something that will make us all very optimistic. However, the situation is what it is, and then at the end of the year it happens to us that results have been achieved where and where different from our wishes and any plans. As far as this 2011 Report is concerned, I would agree with my colleague Vinkovic, if we are already comparing what was done in 2011 and we are criticising it, we are praising what was done in 2012 then it would really be good to have both reports in front of us so that we can analyze them in quality and see where the truth is. As for the 2011 report, here's what I welcome is that the data is shown in the birth statistics, so we can do some sort of analysis of women's entrepreneurship here, which has become quite interesting to us and who we advocate at all levels. However, what I miss in this report is that if we are talking, and I would like to ask Mr Liovic to see that, perhaps when we get a 2012 report, that this report is a little bit thicker, that it is not just in numbers, but that certain projects that have been given, which also received co-financing and grants are higher and higher than any of those entrepreneurs who will be read and who, based on such analyses, may be able to focus a little better and more on how to report projects and what projects are coming at all. And I think it would be very important for entrepreneurs. And it might be that, given that we have become here, we have become in Croatia, and the introduction of a register so that the funds allocated would not be spent further needlessly to introduce a register of users of the funds received or allocated through all those agencies. So from the state level to the smallest municipal ones regarding entrepreneurship. What you announced to the ministers is that the grant tender will be announced in early February, and the total amount of incentives is double the amount of last year and will amount to around 730.6 million kuna. There's no contest yet. I checked the Ministry's pages this morning. I hope that competition will be announced soon. The Ministry of Entrepreneurship and crafts changed how you yourself said the way you gave individual support in a way that the amount of support would be higher than the previous years, and the number of users was lower. According to information from your ministry in 2011, the average amount of support was 36,000 kuna, in 2012. 68,000, and this year here is expected to be an average of more than 150000 kuna if the applicant undergoes qualification procedures, i.e. meet all the conditions of the tender. I would take this opportunity to go back to what we have been repeating so many times, and yesterday, when we talked about statistical regions in Croatia, we found that we do not have much quality frame to design projects. Now a specific project is being developed for craftsmen and small businesses that is undergoing a qualification process. We know that the Ministry of crafts, Croatian Chamber of crafts, Croatian Chamber of Commerce, County Development agencies, and especially units of local self-government, municipalities and cities are not synchronised enough to ensure that certain projects are implemented in quality and that the end-user is given the information he needs to create a quality program. What's been going on for years is this. We spend money from the budget through various projects for schooling and training staff to make quality projects. However, these people who work in development agencies in most cases are not at the service of small, medium-sized entrepreneurs and craftsmen. In the end, the craftsman is left alone to a consultant who has to do a business project for him. In our last kind of communication here in this House, you promised to publish on the Ministry's pages, which is to score these consultants so that the craftsmen here have some kind of picture that the consultant is more successful, which is less successful and that works projects in a copy-pass way. That didn't happen, and believe me, that would mean a lot to the craftsmen. You stress that projects will have to be better structured, will be assessed by points with special attention to the effects of incentives. According to the analysis, only 44% of the users of those funds were found to receive higher business results. You also say that in a series of lines of incentives, encouraging activities of creative industries such as the development of new software solutions and IT technologies are being singled out. When you are doing the 2012 Report, regardless of what you are announcing for projects that will be in 2013 I think it would be very important for you to list all these parameters and in the 2012 Report that we can easily compare later what these additional values have come from incentives. One quality controlling and one analysis of the allocations in how many new jobs are opened, how much improved the liquidity of that business entity that got the incentives, how much increased its production at the expense of the incentives obtained, I think that could only give us the right picture of how successful the incentives are and how successful they are from year to year. Without it, every year we're going to go back to the same way that we talk about what we've been through in one way and talk about what's yet to come. For the initial phase of the project, 3 million kuna is secured, as you say for 20 projects, and in the second level of software development that is in the start-up phase, subsidies will be given to projects that have survived the start-up phase. The ideas will be evaluated by business angels from the Association "Go" and experts from BICRO, and 4 million kunas are provided for 10 projects in the ministry. Several of the best projects to come at a high stage of development will be financed by economic co-operation funds and by the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development. Here is precisely because of this small number of projects that will continue to develop, and it will develop in a way that, as you say thanks to the evaluations of business experts, they will not be evaluated the same way as you are now assessing those funds allocated in 2011 and earlier years and you say that they are needlessly spent, it would be good to put these entities on your site of the Ministry, i.e. in the Support Register. For business incubators, i.e. business premises and infrastructure, micro-enterprises and local units will be available for 24 million, while promoting the development of tourism and higher quality of private accommodation with 4 million kunas will encourage the construction of swimming pools, and the funds are intended exclusively for activities to provide services and tourism. I'm going to finish with that, and here's only because of this last paragraph that I've said, and it's been taken off your pages to work on that synchronization of all those entities that can provide certain information to a particular craftsman and business subject. Too much money is spent, too much money is spent at all levels, and every kuna spent is justified by encouraging small, medium-sized entrepreneurship and craftsmen. I think it's not good, and I think in the end that when we look at all the structures that can decide and discuss, they talk about entrepreneurship and the development of entrepreneurship, and in the end, the least anyone gets from it is exactly who needs these funds most. Here, I hope the Minister's on this one of my questions that I just said I'd get an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30510	Thank you very much. Ivan Shuker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30511	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Tyrell, you spoke of the support and how these support were given, and perhaps this debate today should have served not to attend one arrogant and rude act of the minister but to simply discuss today what will happen with the support tomorrow. Not with support but to say that this area of support in small and medium-sized enterprises is actually the advantage and future of Croatia tomorrow. Because the most support can be given through that. Secondly, we all forget that all these support is under direct control from Brussels. It will be very interesting to see how much this support of illegal and illegals will be declared by someone from Brussels and if they do not declare any support illegal and illegal or illegal then this story by the minister will be meaningless. But I repeat, all the support that will be given this year, which will be given in the years to come, will certainly be under Brussels. And look, the responsibility is not borne by those who support, ultimately the one who receives the support pays. He will spend that support in the best faith that is legal that good and ultimately will pay the entrepreneur. The government's task, and even us in this House in our debates, is to help in the education of bonds, to guide them where they can get additional information to get feedback, to come to the knowledge and knowledge of how to use as many messages, silent support and how to use these support in a legitimate way so that no one takes them away. Because look at what is happening in Slovenia, look at what is happening in other EU member states, because ultimately we need to be aware that every country that gives these support is supporting to strengthen its economy and the logical thing in this game of control, who has given legal or illegal support that the weakest one will always suffer. And we're also going to fight here because that's what SDP, HDZ, Labourists, HDSSB, HNS gave us, I think that's just funny.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30512	Thank you very much. The answer to Nancy Tyrell's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30513	Comrade Shucker, I'm glad we agree on that thought. That's exactly what I said, let's not fight who did something or didn't do it. It really doesn't matter to craftsmen and entrepreneurs what happened in 2011 because that year is behind them. What's important to them is what's meant to be done, and on account of what they think they need support, we're talking about it right now. In view of the projects that are coming, given the conditions that the Ministry of Defence has increased, or made it more difficult to say so, it will certainly need everyone's support first in terms of education, and I don't think there is. It is not enough for regional, county, development agencies to write competitions and write in 10 sentences what kind of programme it is. Projects sting, each kuna will need justification precisely for what you said yourself, that we need to make a quality EU excuse, and that's good, after all, that's good, because we're probably not going to have the power to say it again and as we like to talk about how the funds are needlessly spent and, unfortunately, we obviously need the EU to put ourselves in line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30514	Thank you. On behalf of the HDSSB club Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30515	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Secretary with the Agency's associates. The report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency in 2011 according to the words given in the introduction by the chairman of the administration or, as the director is already called, in fact, it would, in the very words that I quote the report, be called the HAMG Report on providing social assistance to the small economy, because it just called these. I don't think it's an insult in terms, and that's what the gentleman who said it wanted, so the director of the administration to insult the small businessmen and the middle, but whether it's actually his position in terms of the amount people received from the economy. At least that's how I realized it. We do not wish to justify the president of the administration, but to express our regret that your amounts are so small and that HAMAG and our overall situation does not allow your amounts to be greater, so that there is no confusion. In the European Parliament, almost a week-to-week discussion is being held about helping small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, depending on the definition. Most often, it is the number of employees, the definition of small and medium, so small to 10 employees, middle to 100 employees, so it is defined in the EU. So, it is debated how to help them as the most vital and tough part of the economy that it can do with its activities and its own, precisely this vitality that the EU in its overall economic crisis has also fallen into, clearly something perhaps less than Croatia, apart from the subordinate parts of the southern ones that we all know and witness, what things are happening in both Greece and Spain, both in Italy and so on. According to the EU's register of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs, there are 22 million registered in the EU. So it was a convenient debate about how it was said, if each of these economic operators hired only one, only one new employee, that would be 22 million new employees. In that sense, there's a debate over how to help them hire at least one, that's 22. They say the EU has 26 million unemployed, here if only one in each of these small and medium-sized enterprises is employed, entrepreneurship remains only 4 million unemployed. And clearly, a wheel driven by the economy would soon solve this 4 million left. So we think a little bit about these European thoughts and the Croatian way. So, I would love to have each of these investments, although the president of the administration said they were almost heights, and not the character of the socialist, if he had made it possible, to open up another job, if at all possible, or at least to use those money there in some program that would help, therefore, get another or more jobs. Maybe we're talking in general now, and then in this report, which is also in the figures they write here, I'm going to have a good show of the minister, this introduction to the Horuk, to say the adjective, Croatia's novelty. I guess he thought it was a system far from the eye, so from the heart or closer to the eye, closer to the heart, right, Mr. Maras? It seems that way, but in Bosnia they say far from the eye, far from the heart, but well. Now, I wouldn't go into the eye and heart, but we wouldn't have an argument here, and we don't have a reason because there are no entities that are close to the eye or close to the heart, and we'd like you to cure it, as counterpart Tyrelli said, more extensively and more extensively, so let's say that the report states exactly, and I don't want to call anyone and make a new register of those who are as obvious as Maras said they got some funds or didn't get it. So there won't be again those similar to the ones who get the wrong ones who won't get the funds approved through HAMAG. But it is also true that despite all the help that has come to small and medium-sized businessmen regardless of the height, what is true is that I quote my colleague by the profession of Dujo Marasovic that 5 thousand are newly employed in state and public services. This should not be earned for those salaries and other contributions made. If that's the case and Dujo swears that, five thousand new employees are either ominous or from the heart or the like, then it's already a thing that makes it a lot harder to get out of the crisis than anything else. Now we're going to go to a report that's actually a report for 2011. In a year I would also say in that report when he was presented by the president of the administration then very often, he almost used facts and arguments from 2012 rather than from 2011. Obviously, the 2012 report is already over. So we'd like it to have come even together on the benches if it could, so we'd like to compare these unexpected support from I guess in 2012. Not from the occipital support, so let's see the facts and the heights of whether that's what the president of the administration said or not. Now let's talk again for the third time that I'm going to go to arguments and facts here that say for the year that we see like this. So part of the aid that is in the guarantees granted by HAMAG for small economies, so when we add up, when the subject of the requirements received according to guarantee programmes is the total number in Croatia 145. That's when we look at the birth distribution of 39 women and 106 men. Relatively, let's have a relationship that we wouldn't expect so much, nor should it be any discrimination, but that's what the demands are. And then in the section under point 9. In the table that's on page five, they write micro loans. Micro loans, there were 10 demands. The share in the requirements is about 7%, and the amount of the loan is a million and 497. In fact, at the end of the day, I was asked to talk about them, which is 0.25%. It's really micro loans when the percent is 0.25%. You know mostly Mr. Maras he's an economist by profession or by Mr. Drinker. They are also very professional that a Bangladeshi economist has won the Nobel Prize because in Bangladesh he has developed a system of micro-credits where Bangladesh has gone fiercely through economic growth. This is why I cite it as an example in one economic practice. He really won the Nobel Prize for the peace credit system and applied it first in Bangladesh, and then some other countries applied it. I wouldn't go into semi-communication with people from the profession, but I know that fact. I mean that's those micro loans we have in this first table of 0.25% of the total number of guarantees or the amount of cash guarantees. In addition, the same table says the entrepreneur in the zone. I guess it counts on these small-scale areas that zero like mushrooms after the rain, and they haven't really been established yet, and very rarely we have a zone that actually lived up to what they'd say in full drive entered or in full drive. Here's one of the good examples is the new construction zone in Novi Gradišca which still has room for certain economic operators but is already doing great. But look, there's also a number of demands 10 or about 7%, and in that part, instead of those monetary amounts of investment in micro loans is 0.25%, there's 35% that I'm not talking about right now. This means that in 2011 a relatively well-supported small economy in the zones is because the total cash amount of guarantees for this purpose is 35%. I'm not talking about the number of requests. I'm talking about the total amount of bail. In a farm where there were 42 requests, the amount is 25%, so in the small-scale area, 10 requirements were 35% and 42 demands only 25%. When looking at the table on page six on the review of accepted requirements for creditors then we see who it is of the creditors to say had the most requests of the Croatian Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Croatian Post Bank and there and the Zagreb Bank as one of the commercial banks remained all thanks to God in foreign ownership that it was already beautifully transferred by the recapitalisation and sale. And then we have a situation that I'm actually talking about the share of 50% of HBOR and HPB, all the other banks, and there are 19 other 50% of them here. What does that mean? So is that supposed to be drawn? And now here's the government's plan is to sell HPB just a little bit more relatively to say something to a bank that has a certain capital that's worth relations with other commercial banks. When a review of the requirements received for counties is considered, then guarantees can be easily concluded that we have that disproportionate and regional again. What's this about? And in all the tables of others, when you look at those grants that are given by HAMAG's grants are called all others even in culture and everything you have disproportionately when you look at the tables towards the county between what we said yesterday to the City of Zagreb and 5 Slavonian counties. If there were no Osijek-Baranja and the city of Osijek, the difference and disaster would be even greater. And that's why yesterday when we talked about our interpretation we were quite right because this also shows that projects are both complete or total economic activity is happening elsewhere, in Slavonia and Baranja not. And even when looking for grants or guarantees, in which case the number of those who ask for it from 5 Slavonian counties in the overall proportion is always small than the city of Zagreb, and the number of inhabitants is the same as the number of inhabitants in the city of Zagreb. You can see the difference drastically in that. And then we say that there will be possibilities or abstract possibility increases by including Zagreb in continental Croatia as a region. Well, normally it will be bigger but the funds offered to us in EU structural and cohesion funds will mostly go somewhere else rather than to 5 Slavonian counties. Because this is what you can see from these projects that are running towards HAMAG towards our agency, and that's not how it's going to be for Europe. Full analogy, complete symmetry. So projects run and requested for both guarantee and grant support, the number of these requests is significantly smaller and projects than from 5 Slavonian counties, but Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30516	Finish your discussion.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30517	The same will be true when we seek support for projects from structural and cohesion funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30518	Thank you very much. Replica Đuro Popiè.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30519	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My dear colleague, you spoke and mentioned that new term ominously one way or another, so here we go... On the website of MINPO, therefore, the Ministry of Trade and Entrepreneurship has a list of all the support, so before there was a description of all the support that has been granted and you can see, unfortunately, you can't even withdraw it because there is no longer a list of all the companies that have received the support. As much as I remember the biggest part, maybe even 90 percent, because it's the same companies that always show up because we don't even have the others who meet the strictest criteria at the end. Neither this ministry nor this minister prescribed criteria, of course, nor I. I've signed it, but they've been set up, and by these criteria, it's one thing to share those support. And we said why. Therefore, all these support and criteria go through the Competition Agency. As far as social security on the ministry's page is concerned, 1088 support for less than 5,000 kuna has divided this ministry. The record is 480 kuna. When you say it like that, of course, I know why it is, but the minister says it's a social thing to share and he didn't talk about what kind of support it is. Of course, it's about education. So when it comes to the fact that this government is not going to share the social welfare of 5 thousand kunas, thousands of support is the criteria, it couldn't be given anymore. And I'm not saying I shouldn't have given them away but he's laughing out of it. Of course they gave a few aids of 700 thousand kuna. Well done, God has given them more and more and we hope that these funds and all that will bring both quality and much more money but again within the criteria that are already applied to us... [[The speakers speak at the same time, of course.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30520	Boro Grubisic's reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30521	Yes, I agree with you completely, and it is unfortunate that we have come to such a fact as you have stated, and it is on the website of HAMAG that as many as you have said a thousand support is divided into that amount. I don't know when that's gonna change, but neither is your government, but we don't expect any of this to change in the 2012 report, and this might be better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30522	Branko the Hill of Replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30523	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague Grubisic, you mentioned this definition to reports on the social support of small entrepreneurs. I have to say that in principle, the conditions under which various support is given could really be called that we have to and define that no one has ever been riched by social aid and that no one has become a major entrepreneur or achieved any good ownership. So basically these reports when we talk about them and when we compare what you also said in 2011 and 2012, since I come from local self-government, it will probably be similar even though, in practice, what we experience on a daily basis, it seems to me that the intensity in 2011 was a little stronger than it was in 2012. That's what I'm saying as mayor, since we're in contact all the time. But I think that from there in 2000 when this model started to work more intensively towards small entrepreneurs, craftsmen, that maybe we're going the wrong way, that really sharing budget money with some kind of support isn't a good approach, but that really needs people, you're talking about it, providing fast, favourable loans, subsidising interest, and then retroactively paying people back what they paid if we wanted jobs that you were talking about. So if we want jobs, then we have to stimulate the entrepreneur to open that job. How are we going to control it, as we know in two years that any entrepreneur who has received this aid will not fail, but if we retroactively pay him back the money he paid for, say, income tax and local self-government and the state, then we will stimulate the opening of new jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30524	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30525	My colleague Hrg, I forgot... and Madam Vice President interrupted me in speech although I thought it would end up just by following the effect of giving support or a certain way that could be achieved, and for the purpose of what you said new employment yourself, it would be very good and that it could still be found and fix that model of this, without being part of the money, I will not say that it was money thrown into the wind, probably a large part of it is not in the wind, but to achieve this main goal – to reduce unemployment and increase employment, so that it should really achieve one consensus among all parties because it is our goal to increase employment in the Republic of Croatia and to reduce unemployment clearly by doing so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30526	And Drazen Djurovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30527	Well, here you are, Mr. Grubisic, when you spoke about HAMAG in the last part of your debate, in fact, asked whether HAMAG or, in general, this government has a policy of balanced, even development of the Republic of Croatia and whether HAMAG as one of the institutions actually acts in that direction or is actually on the trail of action of a whole series of measures like... areas that are actually going towards centralised. And all of these measures because not only is the state, we are not actually facing a policy of even-moving, evenly and sustainable development of all parts of the Republic of Croatia, but rather a policy of further and enhanced centralisation of states that is so explicitly centralized. So not only does the state, through changes to the law, want to take control and responsibility over the raising of our children, through a pre-profit settlement procedure taken to a certain extent by the management of commercial courts through changes to the Law on Agriculture, take charge of the management of state land with the unit of local administration and self-government, but also through the functioning of the HAMAG which is actually centralised and where there is no focus on equal development, in fact all the money is well directed to those areas that are industrial and so most developed. Because there is no even development and balance without fiscal decentralisation. We can have 5,000 and 500 cities, if their fiscal capacity is taken away from them they are not actually managed, they do not allow the development of these units, and in fact by systematic measures they are constantly reducing the fiscal capacity of local administration units and self-government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30528	Replication response, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30529	Thank you, colleague Djurovic. Your replica was very content, and you know that both you and I agree entirely on what you said. Namely an even development of all parts, I cannot say the region when... only two, and precisely in the formation of these two regions of continental and Adriatic, as it is already called, the coastal ones, have just mirrored the government policy which is precisely in all areas in all segments, and according to this Agricultural Land Act and all other legal acts are actually moving towards further centralisation, the overall centralisation of Croatia. Without fiscal decentralisation, it is difficult to move forward in both the economy and everything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30530	The word was requested by Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30531	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. Here after these two debates on behalf of the Croatian Labour and HDSSB clubs, I am glad to be able to immediately give you all the answers to the questions that have been opened because it would be strange if I didn't have them and I'm glad that we've been anticipating a lot of these things in advance and now I'm going to tell you how we're handling them and what we've done just so that I would say irregularities or insufficiently the quality of the use of funds will be in the future as little. Otherwise, when we talk about Brussels and illegal money, it means that when it comes to something illegal in Croatia, we have our own courts and they solve law firms, they solve these problems, so it has nothing to do with Brussels or Brussels will tell us anything about it. And when we talk about whether anyone can win support we speak for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs up to 2000 euros in three years. So, de facto a million and a half kuna, someone can get in three years so they can get public support, and that's where no one's going to suggest that we return the money if we bring it right and grant it to them. But the team is not engaged in Brussels. If anything was illegal, it's our institutions. But I'll tell you what, I'll go first with this ominous approach and social issues. So, I wasn't talking here, and Mr. Drinker now mentioned the support of less than a thousand kunas, he said, 500. It's about scholarships. So it will continue to remain because we will support craftsmanship, our children who want to train and in cooperation with the Chamber of crafts we will continue to carry out these scholarships and they will be at that amount and there will be no need or can be something greater, but there will certainly be no 15, 20,000 kuna. So, you know what a scholarship is, to help a student acquire knowledge and, of course, be transparently assigned, and that's how it's going to be in the future. When we talk about the amounts of support and height we're not talking about this about education support, but we're talking about support to companies that have been at this level quite often over the past few years that I've said 5, 10, 15000 kuna and assigned to everyone and I'd say on that principle of fire-extinguishing, social and developmental stories, although some of them weren't social. When you had a situation where a former minister recommends a single company and says it is excellent, it has export potential, you are really good quality, they should be strengthened support. Then you get 2,000 kuna. But if there are any criteria here based on what the dagger is, I'm not sure, or not. So let's say what's obvious, what's untransparent and what was done before. So the memo, this email is good, give it 200, and the rest of them we'll settle everything for 5, 10, 15, 20. That's what I'm talking about. This is no longer possible and this will not be possible in 2012, and in previous years, and as this is the case, beware of the ministerial level of suggesting who gets the support. So who has the right to evaluate the company's minister and say this is a good one, so give him 200, and judge for these others on your own. It's not the minister's job, and Mr. Drinker said very well. This is not to be addressed by the minister, the criteria must be the same, transparent and professional services must do that type of evaluation. Here's what I was talking about when I was talking about non-transparently, shockingly in line, whatever you want to call it, friendship, relationship, anything. So he's gone, and he's gone. The second thing, you mentioned micro loans and who asked me what you were going to say because this year we're going with micro loans through HAMAG. Here it is, so Indonesia, Croatia, all the good experiences we will apply worldwide and this year up to 70000 kuna micro loans go through HAMAG to our entrepreneurs without some special conditions of insurance, and all for the purpose of preparing for 2014 when we will be able to use a lot, much more money through EU funds for that very purpose and we want to be prepared for that. What you said in regional development, so for the first time, it was particularly assessed and encouraged by those regions and zones and entrepreneurs coming from less developed areas. And you mentioned one entrepreneurial zone and again it's like you asked me what to say to Nova Gradiška. I don't know if you read in the media yesterday an article comparing Germany, Slovenia and Croatia under the terms of investment and one company that will invest 10 million euros in this area and employ 2 hundreds of workers because they have estimated that we are the most competitive and because of the Investment Encouragement Act that I have proposed and where in the undeveloped parts of Croatia where high unemployment is obtained and twice as much support for each new job opening, or you can get support up to 18000 euros. So, if you hire two hundred and more workers and that unemployment is more than 20%. And in this company of Germany, Slovenia and Croatia by infrastructure, Croatia turned out to be the most competitive and people close the factory in Germany and will open it in Novi Gradišca. So that's not great news. Here, let's brag a little, and I'm glad that came out yesterday. And I'm glad that this factory opens in Slavonia because you know what 200 jobs mean for example in Nova Gradiška. It is who to open several thousand if not 10,000 jobs in Zagreb. So thank you and for that suggestion because you've given me the opportunity to say it here in public right now, and that's one very positive and quality news. As for HBB and HBOR, you noticed that most of these guarantees went through these banks. That's what I'm talking about. Other banks didn't want to work with HAMAG. We changed that this year. In 2012 you will see both exceptional progress and all banks and therefore we have more than twice as many guarantees as we have had in recent years so that we will also show here one progress which I would have said to boast. Now, I'd like to look back on Mrs. Tyrell. So, both education and when the contest is called, I said the beginning of the second. The beginning of the second is 11.2. The competition is being held on Saturday in the media, so the newspaper and the call is being opened on our website. 11.2. I hope it goes under the beginning of the second, not in the second half of the second half, so we have fulfilled what we have said. And we go to workshops with development agencies, 30 educations. The program is open until the funds are used. The first education on 15.02 in Zagreb and then 20 educations on. And there will also be a manual on the web pages on how to fill out the application. So, from – to because they must be aware of how it can be applied. So let's move on. As far as double funds are concerned, I said again that we are not creating a mix-up of double the total funding of the programme, plus not only the grants. So you know what we meant by that. Controlling not only for the first time in 2012 there is field control. Be careful, in 2012 for the first time field control of the dedicated funds started and was applied and we also allocated the funds for the first time on two occasions in order to have even better control. In the first instance, 60% of the contract was signed, after the completion of the project after 60 days 40%. So control is far, far advanced compared to what was before. And for the first time, I said, four thousand jobs and it came true. A little less than 4,000 jobs through HAMAG. Here's what my colleague Liovic 829 said and something above 3 thousand through the rest of the entrepreneurial impulse, mostly through the entrepreneurial zones where we invested funds and entrepreneurs opened new companies, 2700. And that's the first time we have exactly how many jobs are supported by one program. In 2011, 2009, you don't have any information, you have nothing to compare yourself to. I will first compare myself to what we did in 2012. And that's exact and nearly 4,000 jobs are open here and it wouldn't be right to compare the general picture with that program. I'm saying what opened up through the program, I'm not talking about what the situation is in the economy, and unfortunately it's more unemployed than in the past year than we've opened up so many jobs with this program. And in the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Sector, in the first nine months, 12 thousand people work more than in the same period in 2011. So year for year 2012, 2011. 12 thousand more people work in the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Sector, and I'm particularly proud of that. Copy-pass approach will no longer be possible and is not possible because each project is analysed individually. The criteria are very clear so that development agencies and consultants don't even do it anymore because that way I can't even get through. So we want to do a maximum transparency procedure and best for what we invest in the budget. Here, I'm running out of time, but I'll get back to you because I still had something to add.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30532	Thank you very much. You have six replicas, so you still have options. Dujomir Marasovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30533	Honored Madam Vice President of the Parliament, Mr. Minister. I'll use these two minutes and you, Madam President, if I've come across those rules to tell you what hurts me. If I mention Hitler normally in a negative context it's you who fix me and what
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30534	Mr. Marasovic, please be sure to replicate the minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30535	And when someone else is talking about fascism or antifascism normally in a negative context, it's okay. Don't make two kinds of MPs here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30536	You can't give my friend Marasovic a line.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30537	You have violated my right, Madam President.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30538	Please report to the Committee on the Constitution and Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30539	I'm telling you this in public. But you tell Mr. Minister that you have an answer to all the questions, I say you have no answers to any questions because if you had answers then, over the past year, for a year and a half, this government would give answers to the questions of the Croatian economy and Croatian economic policy. So I'm going to ask you just one question. Will the number of unemployed in Croatia be equal to or greater in one year, and if it is equal to today or greater, what are the consequences that the Croatian government should undertake accordingly? Is the Croatian government also considering resignation in this case?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30540	Replication response, Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30541	It's hard to respond to a replica, but I'll try. When someone tells you it's a replica that I don't have an answer to any questions. It's a finding, not a replica. And then after that, it's not a replica, it's a question of how many unemployed next year will be. So there was no replica, but I'd be happy to answer your question. And the question is, what's this government doing and what's the situation, it was in, and what's it going to do to get out of it? So, when you have a difficult situation in the economy after five years of HDZ recession, when you have totally uncomplicated relations in both the tax system and the collection of debts and payments, liquidity etc. It takes a year to get the state in line to move forward. What I guarantee you this year is that after five years we'll be out of recession. And that for the first time there will be GDP growth and that some people will be employed, and the real effects and reduction of unemployment will be seen at the end of the government's mandate because this is not a month of work or two months of work, this is a four-year term, and I am confident that we will leave Croatia's citizens to a better decision than it was when we took power. And we took it, you know, the way you left it and how our economy has been working for the last five years. And that's why I'm surprised, but I can't do it here, although it suits me because as many of these replicas as Croatian citizens will give more support to the SDP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30542	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30543	Mr. Minister, I seem to have hit the srid in view of your comment on my debate on behalf of the club. But there are some things left unsaid. In fact, how can you say as a minister that you know that there's no more over-the-counter grant? Because you didn't intervene for someone, did you? But there are 22 ministers, so that's another thing to eat. But let's move on to these facts of yours, shall we? You said I didn't, you said about Nova Gradiška, I didn't read because yesterday I was in the Parliament we had nice discussions here about the regional division of Croatia mainly about the changes in the Constitution and constitutional law and what is already, but you must know that this economic zone of Nova Gradiška is a project and was built at the time when he was headed by the New Gradiška man who was therefore the former mayor of HDSSB and will be the future mayor of HDSSB Mr. Miksic Josip. But they are rare, when you talk about this regional one, here for New Town there will be 200 jobs. Very rare feathers or Fridays, however you want it to happen in Slavonia, Srijem and Baranja. Well, if it'll make me very happy if it's really accomplished, and it's not your election cry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30544	Replication response, Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30545	Thank you very much. Mr. Grubisic, I killed myself so that someone wouldn't say that we only agreed before this and that I would compromise your opposition status. So, yes, but you've just hit all the topics that you've said we've been very promptly responding, but as far as the obvious method and what I'm guaranteeing. I guarantee that the system that I have set up is more transparent, much more concrete than it was before and that there are control systems that prevent these things, and that I will not write e-mails, suggest to whom to grant funds I don't have to especially or guarantee, because it also applies to the person who acts as a function and whether she does her job correctly and whether she understands what the minister's role is and whether it's not management, allocation, disposal, and the role that you are de facto the one who should decide everything, but it's yours yours to implement politics and set up a system. And then the system needs to do technical things, and I don't have to guarantee it to you specifically because it's not even going to be in the government of the SDP, and in HDZ it's something different, unfortunately. As far as New City is concerned, it doesn't matter who is when and whether the mayor of this party or that party is important that the conditions are created, means a zone of quality and a new law that has killed an investor to decide between Slovenia, Germany and Slavonia, for Slavonia. So that's what I'm particularly pleased about, and it's not a scream, but it's a thrill that we managed to get in Slavonia one of those investors who closes down a factory in Germany to open it in Slavonia. It is not a matter of pause, nor of anyone, that is a question of the success of our laws and which this Parliament has also adopted, and on which investors have estimated to make it worth their while. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30546	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30547	Dear Minister, this whole debate is a little confusing on the one hand and on the other. The beginning of the debate was bad, now something started, it was better, anyway, and when you answered the questions of the 2 last clubs that spoke and you started to speak for yourself something more concrete. This is about who did more, or who did more damage, which means who contributed to the economy and who destroyed the economy. If we had recognized the crisis in 2008, instead of filling the pockets of individuals, if we had discussed what measures should be taken here in the Parliament, what measures should be taken, as Germany and other countries have done, then today the situation would be quite different. Before, Mr. Drinker talked about what was clear about the criteria, about how money was distributed in a transparent way. That's what the current minister says today. In Croatia, the economy is getting worse and worse. That rock that started in 2008 cannot be rolled so easily. But now it's time to create, really start talking about concrete things, here's this project that's in Novi Gradiška, if it's going to happen, it's a concrete project. I'll just, for a very short while, when Nokia was created then the state recognized, actually the state was looking for a project, it recognized the genius of this idea, even though now Nokia is in trouble we know that, but over the decades, the whole state was draining out of Nokia. It's up to you to recognize the good ideas, and in the future, and I'm going to rephrase a little bit more, and the money for incentives is given really for the projects that deserve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30548	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30549	It is the highest problem in the Croatian state.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30550	Thank you very much. The reply to the replica of Minister Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30551	Thank you, well-respected representative Vuksic. Well, I'm talking about concrete things, and here's my wish to get Parliament's support for this, too, for everything we've done. Tell us whether it is better to give more concrete support to entrepreneurs, whether it is good for the Minister to suggest by mail who should be supported or not, which happened during HDZ is not happening now. Is it a good law, is it a good law to encourage investments that has contributed to New Town having an investment that was previously in Germany? Is it good that there is order in Croatia, is it good to have growth in income from small and medium-sized enterprises in Croatia in the first 9 months? I said why GDP is generally falling, so I'm talking about concrete things. Is it good to have control, field control for the first time ever regarding the support of this nature, is it good to go to quality projects that will hire, is it good that, I would say, we increase resources year by year, is it good that we're prepared? And as far as EU funds can be praised again with our ministry that has used, you know that we follow as much as we do by percentages, here every two months Minister Grcic tells me if it is 50.55.60.65 and thus the use of pre-accession funds increases. Our Ministry of Small and Medium-sized Entrepreneurs agreed on funds and more than was available to them, but since we were able to do so with another ministry. Is that all good stuff? I think they are, and I think we're going in the right direction at least as far as Hamag is concerned, which has twice as many guarantees, is that good? This year we'll have twice as much as in 2012, I'm saying it in advance, write it down and test me in a year. I guarantee it, so we have 100 guarantees here, now we have 200, next year we have to have more than 400. And that's what we have to have more than 400 in 2013, and that's what we do and we want to do for small and medium-sized entrepreneurs in Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30552	Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30553	Please tell me if that's good or not?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30554	Thank you very much. Djuro Drinker, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30555	Madam Vice President, I don't know if I can replicate the Minister's hearing or all these replicas, but it's all the same. After all, if the ministers don't know what's going on in the economic zones, I'll tell you, even though they should know. So 700 million kunas and over over several years of direct support for infrastructure development went to entrepreneurship zones, not counting land, land is also about 700 million kunas of value that the state donated to local self-government and there are 40,000 employees in them. At least that was until last year when you didn't kill a good part of those entrepreneurs who worked there under quotes, of course, economically. Second, when you were talking about scholarships, I'd make it easy for you. Your ministry has announced that you have donated between three thousand kuna and 273,000 kuna. It says, it doesn't mean what you're talking about, but it's the support for lifelong education. It's about a thousand but it doesn't matter at all. You've turned your attention to something that doesn't matter and that certainly for some economic progress there will be nothing. And you keep saying that some minister is something. Here's this former minister standing in front of you. You have a print-out of six thousand aids that were approximately shared in 2010, 2011, say one if that's me, of course, to which I've asked, any intervention. I had a much smarter job in those two years to slow down the economic downturn and ultimately make economic growth along with other colleagues who took place in 2011. Of course, but as to whether or not some ministers are now calling for support. Here I have heard from one part of the economy that the ministers now call for no support for those who meet the criteria.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30556	Thank you very much. Replication response, Mr Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30557	I'm really lucky because every replica of the question comes exactly what I'd like. Here comes Mr. Drinker now asking me around the zone. It means when I came to the Ministry of Timely Contracts, it means to use funds in those zones allocated to some in 2005, 2006, 2007 and no measures were taken to make use of those funds. There were over 40 million kunas where the state gave money to local self-government and they didn't do anything. No one asked them anything. So we've managed to solve over 30 million of these backlogs this year and bring the situation to fruition. So far, we have more unrealised projects than previously approved, and I would say to support something more than 10 million kuna, and these are the days that are going to end contracts for all those who have disobeyed it. So for years, 7.8.9 years, nothing has been done. We had over 44 million kuna debts in entrepreneurship zones. These people were asked nothing, they didn't answer, and we managed to solve more than 30 million kuna in one year. That's a good thing again. As far as I'm concerned, I'd like you to commend it because it's not a good thing that we have 44 million funds out there without us, that we have no purpose at all or anyone to ask these local self-government units what's wrong with that money. And quite often they used that money not for zones, but for something quite third. The other thing about education, it's not just me that knows every project and I know what we're giving the money for. This is not just about scholarships, but also about lifelong education or educational institutions, so don't change pears and apples. And I'm from what I said and I'm standing. So I'm not saying that you're the minister, but the ministers sent suggestions to the e-mails, which is a good company, which should get support, if you're interested in which company it is and as a minister, I can tell you later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30558	Dinko Buric's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30559	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Secretary. So by listening to your presentations, we might get the impression that we live in a country where honey and milk flow. It's nice to hear you say that in the small entrepreneurship sector today, there are 12,000 people doing more than they did. But you are a member of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and it would be correct then, yes, but today in Croatia, a total of 60,000 people work less than when you came to power throughout the economy. Because according to the Croatian Employment Institute data at the end of December 2011, when you took over power in Croatia there were 315 and 438 unemployed persons, at the end of January 8 days 2013 at that same Employment Office was 372 480, today that number is significantly higher. So when you talk about the good news this is an incentive, the employment of 208 people in Novi Gradišca, we welcome it, but at the same time and then it is correct to say that we have bad news, the announcement of Mr. Branko Grčić's Deputy Prime Minister as of yesterday that the budget rebalance will reduce public investment that you will be sure to further reduce employment, i.e. increase unemployment and he said so we are also cleaning the economy from those fictitious ones who have not paid. Is the Government of the Republic of Croatia a cleaning company that needs to clean up the Croatian economy or the institution of the Republic of Croatia that needs to start the economy. Is your main instrument in the Government of the Republic of Croatia a broom and cloth or what should be mind and ability.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30560	The reply to the replica of Minister Gordan Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30561	Thank you very much. Here's your esteemed representative. I have been very open in my presentation, I have said what the results are in this segment and what the results of the total economy are and what we are talking about today at all, and what industries are that are problematic, but since this is a topic of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, so let me say specifically what is happening in this sector, that is. And why would I hide these positive things, so we don't just have to talk about negative things every day in the Parliament and in the public, etc. Why should we not boast that Croatia has never been competitive with Slovenia and Germany on investment issues so far, and here is the most competitive one in Slavonia. And that is why we should look forward to Croatia's entry into the EU because such investors will now have a single market that is more and more and more and people will be watching where they are most worth investing in. And in Slavonia, the competitive situation is now 170% better than in Slovenia and better than in Germany. And tell it to people in Slavonia that they know that in some way there is a chance of big investment in Slavonia and that there will be private investments and that not everything in the state is going to invest but on the contrary, we need to create conditions for private investors to raise our level of economy. And that's what this government did. I am delighted that Slavonia is now more competitive 170% than Slovenia and Germany. This is the information that you, as representatives of Slavonia, should repeat every day. Please do it because it's an extraordinary piece of information.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30562	And Drazen Djurovic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30563	Thank you. Here, Mr. Minister, of course, is that of those hundreds of thousands of people who have closed down the factory's entrepreneurs all over Europe and moved to Southeast Europe, one of them has arrived in Nova Gradiška from all of them. And thank God that one arrived and opened the plant in New Town. When it comes to the business zone of Nova Gradiška, I'll remind you, it's two business zones. Along with it is the business zone of Rešetari but the zone of Nova Gradiška unfortunately along with the SDP Mayor of Nova Gradiška is complex so that it can neither come nor go bigger tow because the road along and from it leads a underpass under the railway line. Thus, these two business zones, which are side by side, are located in an extraordinary geostrategic position and are certainly able to employ ten, 15 thousand people in the future. Without the help of the state and local administration there is no means to simply connect them directly to the highway. And it's a problem that neither the local community nor the city or the county will be able to solve without direct state assistance. Simply on one fast road, the two zones that are in the direction of Bosnia, Serbia and Croatia are located in a phenomenal geostrategic space and, of course, that investor will come when instead of the Germans working for three thousand euros, people in Slavonia are working for three thousand kunas and are too happy to have a job and they get free land and free of charge of all municipal contributions, he has received these reliefs with a new law per employee. Well, these are extraordinary benefits I agree with. But what I would like to say more is Eurostat data our problems, 1 share of exports to GDP Croatia has 19.38% of the share of exports to GDP, Bulgaria for example 43%, Estonia 61, Lithuania 40, Slovakia 74, this is our structural problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30564	And a response to the replica of Minister Goradn Maras.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30565	Thank you very much. I'm glad we agreed that these are all the good things that happened for Slavonia and these incentives. And now I'm going to tell you about the infrastructure. It means because I was a little interested in seeing that analysis made by a private investor what it was like to be a comparative advantage of Slavonia and why he chose Slavonia rather than Slovenia or Germany. And exactly what you're talking about infrastructure is one of the key reasons it was element number one, the number two were their incentives that could be achieved through the Investment Encouragement Act and the number three were valuable and high-quality people. And that's something we have to repeat. And given that he is a representative of colleagues, Grubisic and our observer in the EU Parliament, I will share this study with him and ask him to promote as much as possible the New City Zone and other areas in Slavonia because this is a positive example where I would say draw the attention of investors from the EU and we should not be afraid of it. God gave that as many factories move from Germany to Austria from Italy to Slavonia, and that is why this Croatian government is working, and I also invite Mr Grubisic to join us in that part of the lobby as an observer in the European Parliament at least among those who are moving there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30566	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30567	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear Ministers with an associate, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. So this is a technical report. It gives insight into the Agency's work in 2011 therefore should be taken into account and accepted. It therefore provides insight into certain trends and in general into the work of a system designed to support the SMI sector. With this support in the period that the report refers to on the basis of what we see, we can conclude that we cannot be completely satisfied. However, it can also draw certain conclusions in which the work of the agency should and may be directed in the future. The importance of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship in Croatia is far greater than my impression is perceived in public. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the most dynamic, most tough and fastest growing part of the Croatian economy, which is evident from the recent presentation of the respected minister. What I'm saying, of course, I can confirm from my own experience. I come from the Zagreb Councils. In that area, which can be said to be quite both crafty and entrepreneurial, I find confirmation of the claim that this part of the economy is the most tough and the best that survives. There were sometimes large factories and large plants such as Termomechanics, such as Sljemen, such as the Prigorka brick factory, which, unfortunately, had been destroyed in the 1990s, was decomposed. These large plants left only memories and warehouses and houses, people who received them in the privatisation, who have increased exponentially compared to the development and growth of the plants they have taken over. Small and medium-sized companies therefore account for 99.5% of all companies and employ around 66% of workers in all companies. We are often in the public eye on large numbers, large investments that are extremely important, but I think a small economy is an extremely important driving force for economic development. It has therefore an exceptional ability to adapt, it remained despite everything and what existed before the '90s, and in later development it came out new and was maintained despite both war opportunities and relations in privatisation and all the other difficulties that have hit us. This is seen by statistics showing that the share of large entrepreneurs in total financial results from year to year is slightly decreasing and the share of these small entrepreneurs is increasing. And trends abroad also show that. For example, in Italy, the importance of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship is recognised and it is essentially the backbone of the economic system, and even in the United States, it stresses the importance of this SMI sector despite our perception of America as a country of large corporations. One of the issues that is constantly raised as a priority is the increase of the competitiveness of Croatian companies, i.e. the entire Croatian economy. I would agree with the claim that small and medium-sized enterprises play a key and most important role in achieving this objective because of their capacity to adapt continuously and dynamically to market requirements. We must agree with the claims that the SMI sector provides the possibility of applying, therefore, modern solutions and practices of developed countries where they have developed their economic strength and competitiveness. This possibility is listed through the transfer of modern technology, giving greater importance to investment in research and development in this SMI sector, continuous innovation, easier adaptation to market change, application of the latest management knowledge, organisation, inclusion in world trade flows and others. I would also agree that the most important thing is that this sector encourages the representation of the entrepreneurial spirit that we need so much at the moment. It was only 2002 that Croatia joined the adoption of legislation in which small and medium-sized enterprises would find their support and foothold. In Croatia, entrepreneurs mainly concentrated in several activities in which they recognised potential, so the expansion of the market so that the most pro-pulsory sector is as much as 35% of the total number of traders. The supply of electricity, for example, is only 0.16%. In addition to trade, the most significant volume covered the business of real estate 22%, the processing industry only with 13.2% and construction with 10.35. So these four activities are mostly 80.55% of total number of entrepreneurs. As part of the preparation for this debate, I have searched for information on the GEM project. In translation it is a global business monitor, it is an international project aimed at monitoring and developing indicators that measure entrepreneurial activity. This Gem project results every year from the publication of indicators of overall entrepreneurial activity and entrepreneurship environments in the form of global results reports. In the report for Croatia, certain indicators were given to government programmes by an indicator of 2.64%, government support 2.41%), government regulation 2.17% and transfer of research and development. So we're talking about the period before 2012. The limit of excellence is set to about 3.0, so obviously we're in all of these elements far below that desired level. The European Union is, however, putting a small economy at the heart of its efforts to define incentives and workshops. As before, the most significant source of funding for the SMI sector is the Structural Funds, and the novelty is the innovation and competitiveness programmes of the European Union and the seventh framework programme for research and technological development. It is obvious, therefore, that technological development and according to the priorities of the European Union investment in innovation and development are a priority. All this, therefore, of what I was talking about points to the importance of HAMAG as a tool, now HAMAG Investa as a tool that will achieve the goals that should be pursued, which were previously discussed, which we were all talking about here at the end. Only this report is therefore well-conceived, it gives correct data processing and insight into the most significant trends and activities of the agency, but gives us an indication of what we need to do in this area in the future period. It is clear that the support policy must be directed horizontally in this sector and that at this horizontal level we must primarily encourage the processing industry, primarily through the transfer of new technologies, knowledge, research and development, as it is clearly understood and long ago at European Union level. This report first highlights guarantees so that on 31.12.2011 agriculture recorded the highest percentage of requests while again what I was talking about, new technologies and the financing of passages was only 2,07% and 2,76% respectively. It is therefore indicative that there are a relatively small number of requirements on these bases and this information points to the need for action in this area. In 2011 HAMAG approved these 112 guarantees received, accounting for 77% of the total number received in excess of 154 million kuna, allowing 494 million investments in the economy. However, compared to 2011, the number of approved guarantees has been reduced by 13% despite the need to boost the sector as the most pro-pulsive sector, as the most tough sector, which can offer the most in the process of exiting the crisis. However, the number of guarantees granted has been reduced. With regard to data and reports relating to therefore projects of incentives, it is therefore concluded that 58% of the requirements met the conditions and criteria of the project. However, more than 573 million kunas were requested and only 56 million were granted. It is good that most of these funds are nevertheless aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of the small economy by introducing new technologies, developing computer equipment, transfer of knowledge. However, it is again a modest amount of only about 40 million kuna. It should be pointed out that this is also the entrepreneurship of young beginners, so they so-called entrepreneurship. popularly known start of hopes, that they were awarded only 4 million kunas and less than 5% requested. When I talked about the entrepreneurship climate, about the importance of this sector, the SMI sector in America is particularly emphasising the importance of these small start-ups and new entrepreneurship. It seems to me that, despite everything, we are not yet giving sufficient support and importance to this sector to start new entrepreneurs, the new entrepreneurship climate. Other incentives, therefore, are essentially at some micro levels from entrepreneurship in culture and cooperative entrepreneurship where only 2 million kunas have been allocated. As regards the part of the report relating to participation in projects under the IPA 3C programme, however, it should be concluded that these projects are shown more descriptive, and that the aim of these projects is to prepare Croatia for effective management and absorption of funds under the IPA pre-accession programme and strengthening, so the capacity of the Republic of Croatia to effectively use structural funds when entering the EU, it may be necessary to process this part with more details. The final conclusion on the Agency’s performance can be drawn from the recent available data on the Agency’s work in 2012. Here is the data I came up with in the area of guarantees in 2012, so growth in the categories of primarily these received and approved guarantees. The number of guarantees received was now increased by 148% in 2012 compared to what we had in 2011 and at the level of the year, 117% increased while in this last quarter as much as 530%. So, when the work was formed, we consolidated we had a 530% growth, which is even better than the pre-recession year 2008. Through the approved guarantees, as many as 924 million kuna investment in the small economy has been made possible, with 87% growth compared to 2011 and 829 people able to be employed through these programmes. I think that we can therefore conclude that this SMI sector has nevertheless received greater support mainly in the last year, which has been visible at institutional level and because this sector has also received both ultimately and its ministry, but from this year's budget where significantly higher funds are allocated to the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Sector. This sector needs more support. That sector can be, it'll be a recovery engine. These trends are already visible by everything we've heard. But therefore, greater support is required at the institutional level which is now being obtained and which in 2011 is visible from this report and cannot be fully satisfied.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30568	Replica Dinko Buric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30569	Dear colleague, listening to your debate first came to mind that you and I don't seem to live in the same country. You are talking about how small and medium-sized entrepreneurship blooms, and are you aware that small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are on their way out today, thanks to the overall policy of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, one tax terror that started with the growth of VAT, and then continued with the total growth of all the entry costs of electricity, heating, gas and everything that is going on and is now likely to end with this announced real estate tax. Companies go bankrupt every day. We're listening to bankruptcy deals, and you're talking about the growth of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. I don't really know if I have a feeling that the owls might envy you for your ability to stick your head in the sand. And when it was said about Slavonia and Baranja, then I must say that the real good news for Slavonia and Baranja, we welcome this also for Nova Gradiška and it is Slavonia and Baranja but only one part of it. The real good news for the economy in Slavonia and Baranja would be that when you vote today, you from the ruling majority would support the proposal of us who have proposed to change the division of the Republic of Croatia to two statistical regions from those two to five statistical regions where Slavonia and Baranja would be a separate region as its most underdeveloped part, not together with the most developed part of the city of Zagreb.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30570	Thank you. Replication response, Drazenko Pandek. Turn on the microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30571	Thank you. Dear colleague, of course, I didn't say that small entrepreneurship was flowering roses as you misquoted me, but I said that institutional support is still better than it was in 2011. And these are facts that cannot be challenged. So 12 thousand people are more employed now in the sector. It's a number, it's a fact. So this is the result of certain work, certain efforts made by both the ministry and the agencies in this area. It's not easy for anyone, everyone in this environment and in this crisis and in the situation when we enter the common market, we all have to adapt, we all have to make extra efforts, but the figures deny your replica. The number of appropriations has increased, the number of guarantees received has increased. So it was good communication with small and medium-sized enterprises as soon as they applied. I in the field when I contact especially craftsmen all essentially praise the Ministry's relationship to come across a much more open door, to listen to them, to have their problems understood and tried to solve both through the Ministry instruments and through the instruments available to the agencies. So the figures deny you in this area.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30572	Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30573	Thank you very much. Well, I would refer to the presentation of a colleague who said, and I agree that according to the indicators is a little entrepreneurship of the fastest growing economy. At the same time, however, I must say that on all these occasions and difficulties, as well as indicators telling us that the fastest growing economy is not paying enough attention to just branches and activities where we could achieve a far greater number of employees and, of course, we have as much and total income and employment as possible. This repressive policy by the current coalition government says that on the one hand we have the incentives of the ministry and the resources that we have today encourage the growth of the economy, and on the other hand we are killing that economy and we have indicators of a few closures of very small entrepreneurs. I would just say that in the future we have to focus far more through government work and government programs far more resources at the Ministry of Trade and Small Entrepreneurship because, as we see for ourselves, it's not since yesterday, it's through all those zones that were created for years through the previous government that the indicators have just arrived today that the little economy is just rapidly growing, but that we can't destroy it with this repressive tax policy. And that's why I'm sure if that's understood, if this starts to apply that the trend of a rapidly growing economy will continue to be kept in small entrepreneurship, but through this policy it certainly won't. On this occasion, I would like to thank the Ministry of crafts and small entrepreneurship and the minister who has just recognised a European project that is connected to the town of Pleternica, which has recognised one project worth 7.5m to 8 million kuna, but that in the future these programmes should be recognizable through the structural funds that are coming to us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30574	Thank you very much. Replication response, Drazenko Pandek.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30575	Thank you. You, in your replica, give me, in essence, instead of me, you might even be responding to some negative allegations from your replica. So the larger funds are just days in this budget and ministry and therefore programmes that will be implemented by the agency. So the larger funds are being given, exactly what you're talking about there's a need, so it's already being implemented. There is no way we can talk about the repressive policy towards crafts and small entrepreneurship because certain inputs, certain parafiscal burdens were reduced in the past year and these were essentially the first measures and some of the percentages given for health insurance and certain other parafiscal burdens were reduced. Thus, there was a reduction in certain tax duties. It's not true that the tax burden has increased. He stayed the same. At a certain level, it is reduced, at a certain level it is increased. But overall looking at that tax burden remained the same as during your government. Of course it would be good to reduce the tax burden further. I think that it will also contribute to the measures of introducing order into tax policy, that it won't be that someone pays honestly everything and then can't raise, and someone's pulling out as unfortunately as we have in recent years... order that everyone is equal to the state, that no one sees through the fingers depending on the relationship, depending on the political resemblance, so that they all have the same conditions, so that when we see at that level when they're all equal to how full the state budget is. [[The speaker's off the mic, you don't understand.]] Then let's see how much we can reduce for everything.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30576	Zoran Vinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30577	Dear colleague, I am sorry that the minister has left, but I think the overall economic situation should not be looked at only if these shifts in the development of small crafts and medium entrepreneurship can be enjoyed, but the overall economic situation should be looked at in full. So, the fact is that we have more and more and more unemployed every day, that every day GDP falls, economic activity falls, industrial production falls. That's a fact. You can't get away from that. Here, I've been here four days and I'm going back to Slavonia and I'd like to be surprised that Slavonia, as the minister says, is in front of Germany. I just don't know what? On the other hand, for the entire economic policy. It's not just the Ministry of Trade or the Ministry of Economy, it's the entire government. And that ministry work should be coordinated. Why am I saying that? Yesterday we also had a long-term debate on agricultural land that abolished the programmes for the agricultural land of units of local self-government in which many have determined that land of particular interest for the city. With their spatial plans, the general urban plans set out and certain, certain places for new entrepreneurship zones, new industrial zones that this law, if elected by the Parliament, disappears from the face of the country. Here's to the end I can't wait, worse than wanting to go back to Slavonia and see, here's really that life in these four days has changed and that it has a better standard than Germany.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30578	Thank you. Drazen Pandek, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30579	Thank you. So, first of all, this debate is of course about the sector of small and medium-sized enterprises, about the report of the Small and Medium Entrepreneurship Agency. Of course there's a little and medium entrepreneurship inside... Yes, inside the wider picture of the economy can't be exceptional. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] But exactly what I was talking about in my debate, this small and medium-sized entrepreneurship sector is the most tough, it can be the engine of development, and this is shown from the data, the recent data for 2012. HAMAG invests where it is said that 12 thousand more employees in the sector. It's an indicator, so this sector can really be one of the engines and that crazy is one of the engines. Now we still have a situation to hunt in this year's iron ball that's been falling, an iron ball that's falling. It is clear that it is not easy to stop, but also this example that was in Nova Gradica, which the minister pointed out, proves to us what makes Slavonia better than Germany. In this example, Slavonia is better than Germany, more competitive to attract this particular project. The shifts may be small, but they are noticeable, but they are noticeable and all, and the recent indicators show in this sector, the SIM sector that the situation is improving and that this sector will also help the overall picture of the Croatian economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30580	Shimo Djurdjevic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30581	Thank you very much, dear colleague vice president. Mr. Pandek, you said that you were in your debate on behalf of the club, that you spoke to medium and small entrepreneurs and that they were satisfied with the work of the agency. But it is easy for you to speak from the position of Sesveto, Sesvetski Kraljec and the city of Zagreb, but I assure you when you go east towards Zagreb, when you cross the Kutin, you pass the Kutin that this is Europe. And when you go east, it gets sadder. Here's an example, we're adopting a budget for this year, I'm looking for an industrial zone of Beliš in Slavonski Brod, located in a port area of 82 hectares for infrastructure, I'm looking for 8 million kuna, and we have signed contracts at 4.5 billion. No, and you know how I went, you know how I went? The amendment is denied. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30582	And Branko Vuksic, replica. Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30583	Dear fellow Pandek, little entrepreneurship is not a lonely island. You said in this as if everything had started in Croatia, as if we were in everything positive. And these positive shifts that happen to small entrepreneurship, but again in only one segment of small entrepreneurship, will be short-lived if everything that cannot fall continues to fall. Soon there will be 400,000 unemployed, more and more crafts of collapse, walk only to Zagreb Ilica you will see that every other trade in the city of Zagreb is closed. It's just like if a cardiosurgeon worked, successfully operated in one hospital all 20 other bad, if patients of all 20 other surgeons died, who would please go get treated nicely in that hospital. I mean, a little reality should go to the minister and you too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30584	We are moving on to an individual debate, colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30585	Thank you, Madam Vice President. The Kukuriku coalition, consisting of SDP, HNS, IDS and HSU, is in power and together we took responsibility for the development of Croatia during a four-year period. We heard the good news that in 2012, little entrepreneurship recorded growth, which is another proof that small private entrepreneurship is the most tough and pro-pulsive part of the Croatian economy. And that just confirms already made claims about how bad a master is headed by the state. This means that the state should not be or should not deal with the economy. The State is here to establish a level playing field, especially rigorously monitor and monitor an equal match and financial flows. One of the tools for establishing such relations in the Croatian economy is also except for the rest of the ministry and HAMAG. The Small Economy Agency HAMAG should be the main incubator of entrepreneurship development in Croatia. In addition to the implementation of the Government's economic policy, HAMAG could propose itself, and encourage and help to realise various business projects and programmes of Croatian entrepreneurs primarily in Croatia and abroad. HAMAG, in my opinion, must be an initiator of competition in all areas of activities it deals with or uses to encourage a small economy. HAMAG must fully objectively and without subjective priorities represent, promote and assist all entrepreneurs who qualify for this. And the latest statement HAMAG must be focused exclusively on private entrepreneurship. Small and medium entrepreneurship is the intrinsic need of each and especially so-called entrepreneurship. small states and for many reasons. Because of the development of the economy in general, because of the good feeling that citizens and citizens live in a country where personal entrepreneurship potentials can be achieved, because of the release of the inexhaustible creative potentials of entrepreneurs and all those who follow entrepreneurship but ultimately because of the release of the creative potential of the entire society. In a small number of inhabitants of a country that is truly the result of justice and sense of equality, there must be an incentive and development of small entrepreneurship. It is hardly possible for a small - country resident to feel well if he is conscious of the knowledge that all work for a few large entrepreneurs. And the state economy is a problem. The state has proven to be a bad businessman. The state economy except as a non-drying corruption polygon is particularly a fruit in the adoption of the wrongs. political decisions in the economy that regularly result in disaster. Entrepreneurship in the economy, the economy in its nature requires exclusively income decisions. As soon as the policy of the thunderhead spiral is involved, non-profits and permanent some times inexplicable losses. And then understandably, citizens and citizens often pay in incredible amounts of money. Another small state economy is incompetence in its negative sense. Which private entrepreneur can compete with the state in the open market. And who could beat the country by a market game? Large entrepreneurs are extremely important and must not be killed by any administrative measures. Small entrepreneurs and small entrepreneurship should, however, be encouraged in all possible realistic cost-effective ways with all possible resources from all state resources. And there it is, there could be a key role for HAMAG. It is clear that the right of entrepreneurial activity requires a regulated rule of law. It is clear that for successful entrepreneurship an important and well-organized positive environment. The role of the state in encouraging the development of small entrepreneurship is desiccated. The state needs to regulate fair market relations and is necessary in the control of fair competition. The role of the state is irreplaceable and it is obliged to find all possible instruments because its and all the most important roles in the economy are to enable all business entities to have an equal competition, to control the match, to establish an effective rule of law or judiciary. There are in Croatia over the average tough entrepreneurs who, despite all the problems, problems, indifference, wrong competition of the mother country's relationship, planting local self-government, problem solutions by institutions, executions in other court processes and other external problems managed to stay and develop their businesses. These entrepreneurs, i.e. companies, are the ones most interested in fair and equal competition and they have and must benefit from this society and recognition. The state must also encourage and help them to produce and sell their goods and services on the domestic and foreign markets as much as possible. The Agency must also serve the healthiest part when the economies are to make this vital part, so that the vital part is a motive for all to improve, improve and raise their business to as high income levels as possible. HAMAG must certainly be teamed up and organised to be the main information point to provide information to entrepreneurs regarding all changes, advantages and obstacles related to Croatia's recent entry into the EU. Otherwise, according to my deep conviction, this job should be done by the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. But judging by how little or nothing this chamber has done for its members in this regard, it is hard to believe that it will continue. And since HAMAG is a state agency for preparing Croatia's small economy for EU accession, it should certainly be imposed on HAMAG. It may not be a bad thing to mention here that we must all think particularly carefully about the role, work and way of financing the Croatian Chamber of Commerce. It seems to me that the chamber itself does not contribute to the special development of the economy in Croatia, or maybe it is not its role, or maybe it is. In any case, the Croatian Chamber of Commerce is an important topic for me and requires a special debate. One of the things to talk about is the entrepreneurial climate in Croatia today. It is unlikely that even after 20 years of escape from the agreed economy, we have not freed ourselves from a way of thinking that making a lot of money is bad. That making a lot of money from your own work is evil. Entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial activities have only one task and this is profit or profit. The more someone earns in their entrepreneurial activities, the more successful he is. Successful entrepreneurs must be our pride and example for others to imitate them. Croatia must enable its citizens and citizens to materially enrich their entrepreneurial activities. Being rich isn't immoral. Being rich doesn't mean being a bad member of the community. Being rich means being successful, smart, capable. We must be proud of successful and wealthy entrepreneurs. We must give them social recognition and status as we should be proud and give social recognition and status and successful artists, athletes or anyone else who rises above averages. A small medium-sized enterprise employs a larger number of employees, the largest number of employees from the so-called so-called population. the real sector and the right to work and to live from its own work is an element of human rights. Unemployment is not only a question of existence but also a question of everyone's personal dignity of feeling that its environment values it and needs to be valued as an equal citizen or citizen in its own country. Therefore, unemployment is particularly long-term, not only a source of financial but also of any other injustice. The state must therefore ensure the conditions for the development of the overall economy by my conviction of a particularly small enterprise of a small economy which only in a shorter period of time, and on longer paths can ensure human rights from the field of labour rights and life from its own work. Since it has been proven that the private small economy is the most promising and successful part of the Croatian economy, our mission in the development of the overall economy must be a particularly strong boost for the small economy and therefore a Croatian small economy agency is needed as the most modern incubator of small economy development. It must also be in human resources, technological, educational structural terms, and must be financially capacitated. The Italians would say.....the speaker reads in Italian....a lot of small ones doing one big. It seems to me a great model for Croatia as well. I'll accept as well as my colleague from the HNS report for 2011. And I have to admit, I can't wait for the 2014 report.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30586	Thank you very much. We have four replicas for your presentation. The first replica and respected representative Branko Hrg. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30587	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Here's colleague Blažekovic you said here that wealth is wonderful, wonderful, wonderful, we heard it recently from the Minister of the CNS who also talked about it. I would personally be much happier if we had much less extremely wealthy and a lot more employees who would achieve at least that minimum profit from which they could feed their families. You also said that HAMAG must represent, promote and encourage all small entrepreneurs. And I will now read you a text that I received during this debate from a young, educated man who would like to be a beginner in a business. I quote him "I personally called HAMAG means what Mr. Minister boasts is not true. I can get the money, and it's almost impossible. It's just talk and rub the eyes of the public." I'm sorry. It's a little tiny and a little messy. "No small entrepreneur, if there is no good connection, can come to money even though he is a beginner. Money can only be given to those who are already in the system." It's a message from a young educational man who's out of a job, who wants to start doing something, who called HAMAG who came there with some of his programs, came to ask how to start a job. This is the message that many of you have received, probably these are the words that many of you have heard, so it's not that great.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30588	Thank you very much. Replication response, respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30589	Just on this first part, the second part, I didn't fully hear or understand. The first part is that I personally want as many rich people in Croatia as possible and the full employment of all citizens.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30590	Second replica and respected representative Dinko Buric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30591	Thank you. My dear colleague, I agree with you on one thing. That's when you emphasized the role of the state in creating conditions for overall economic development. But in one I absolutely disagree with you because it is not entirely wrong but appropriate in the least, your finding that this situation in the economy is often the subject of local self-government. So how can such a statement be made in a state that is so highly centralised as the Republic of Croatia, in which 92% of income ends in the state register, 4% in the budget of the city of Zagreb, and only 4% now and less in all municipalities, cities and counties of the Republic of Croatia. And you're saying that problems in the economy are the fault of planting local self-government. I mean, it's almost amazing. And I have to say something, Mr. President of the Croatian Parliament, that I can see that you can't hear me either, because we can't hear it. I have to show dissatisfaction. It's from a lot of marbles. Shame, at least every day is Friday, so the assembly would be full before the Parliament's session's vote. It is a shame that the ruling majority act as seasons and that you are seasonal parliamentary representatives. You come here only on Fridays before the vote probably go raise your travel expenses and then you're still interrupting us to hear the debates. Please make it a little quieter so she can hear each other so please, Mr. President, let's at least warn the Seasons to be quiet when they haven't been here before.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30592	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I heard you very well, so I don't have the feeling you have. My privilege here was to hear you well. The next replica and respected representative Drazen Djurovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30593	Well, thank you. Let's let them hear it. Here's Mr. Blazekovic, so you put out these very liberal thesis about how the state is a bad master and a bad entrepreneur and how the role of the state is that this is more of an open path to corruption and you only called for direct promotion of the competition with the self-regulatory function of the state. I think you called for a society that is not Croatian. You may have called American society. But I think this space has some of its traditions some of its values as well as Scandinavian space, some of its traditions of relations and values. And we can't change the world we live in because it makes us from a position better or worse. Do you call for market conditions in other sectors? If you call the health market, our citizens will cost millions of kunas. If you call for a market in forests, the agricultural market, the water market, the market. So we have a certain system that's been built and we still have the gain of some time we've lived in and it's not the same in all the places. Do you perhaps, even though I know that you have the opposite worldview of it, to assault rifles in the public or like in the United States, so in the United States where the competition is open today they don't, of course, think you're calling, I know your attitudes, but I mean that different societies have different attitudes and different relationships, and we can't at this point as one weak state that enters a single system say we're opening up the market, so how many people are going to be doing just a million and 300 thousand people now, 250 thousand people in the Republic of Croatia. At the moment we open up to that market completely and the state raises its hand, so in this country we wouldn't stay working a couple hundred thousand people, at best.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30594	Thank you very much. And a reply to the replica, respected representative Boris Blazekovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30595	Thank you very much. I would just like to answer for the public, I am in my debate calling for a change in the management paradigm in Croatia, and it is a process and it is certainly something that cannot happen overnight, and so I have also directed the debate, and you have also noticed it well and I think it is necessary. And as far as weapons are concerned, I am truly advocating that no one other than the civil service or the military or the police may have a weapon. So don't put it in my mouth because it's really something that I'm fighting directly.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30596	Thank you very much. New replica and respected representative Branko Bačić. Here you go, Your Honor.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30597	Thank you, Mr. President. Comrade Blažeković, you said in the development of a small economy the role of the state is irreplaceable and here I agree with you. And indeed, at the beginning of the term of office, this government presented to this House two projects that should have helped the small economy. The first was a project if you remember editing the facades of public buildings in Croatia, even about 2 billion kuna investment would go to the part where small craftsmen, facades, stonecutters, isolaters, etc. would be helped. This project has been seen by a complete debacle, a failure, and not to say that the state has established a special body for the development of the project, which is the Energy Sector and Investment Monitoring Centre, which has spent more on wages for your information than on projects just to edit these public building facades. So this project shows how helpful this part is, I would say, the construction sector that's on its knees. The second project he wrote in the programme was to encourage housing and instead of the government to implement the existing tools and instruments it had through the implementation of the Subsidisation Act and the state guarantee of stable loans that could also enable the sale of this unsold housing fund. The government abolished the law and set off with a new programme to build new apartments... the fact that there are more than 13,000 unsold apartments in Croatia. So I'm afraid that this project POS plus, which should also be launched by construction in Croatia, and then also enables numerous craftsmen who relate to this construction sector to create new jobs, to start working, I'm afraid that this project will also experience an infamous end as it has experienced this project relating to the management of public building facades in the Republic of Croatia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-02-08-0.u30598	Thank you very much. It's time for the Đurjica Sumrak's esteemed representative. She's not in the hall, she's losing her right to discuss this. That's why we've exhausted the list of people reported for discussion on this subject. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency in 2011. The debate is closed. In line with the proposal of the Committee on Economy, I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report on the business of the Croatian Small Economy Agency is accepted in 2011. Who's in favor of this conclusion? Thank you very much. Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous with 118 votes for the proposed conclusion.
