ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61803	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, ladies and gentlemen. In front of you is the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Business and Pre-bank settlement, an emergency procedure. I'd like to start by saying why we've decided on an emergency procedure, but if this debate gets this other information, we can go in two readings. I think that would be even better. We went because on the 5th of September we adopted the Regulation on the basis of the Law on the Authority of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to regulate certain issues and this regulation was valid until 31.12 and therefore we were an intrinsic, the initial intensity to adopt this law until when the regulation applies, however, if the debate found that another reading is necessary. We certainly believe that we may have been even more quality if we could still do it until that second reading so that we would pray immediately and we will be right away very, very fast to give the law to another reading in early January so that if that part of you is discussed Yeah. [[Excuse me, Deputy, this law is in emergency procedure. So now you're pulling the emergency procedure and we're going into two readings. Okay, so let's be clear.]] So on 28th of September 2012, the Croatian Parliament unanimously adopted the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement. The pre-departure procedure immediately takes effect has come to the public's attention, given that a large number of debtors met the conditions for the initiation of the procedure and, therefore, of great importance to all domestic economic operators and beyond when they are in the role of the creditors. Given that the legislator has provided for a completely new form of procedure, one mixture of administrative and judicial proceedings and the fact that only with the first application of the law has started to open certain issues, a basic law that contains some 89 articles and has therefore experienced three amendments within 13 months. I will only briefly discuss these changes that have so far been aimed at simplifying the process and reducing costs. It is prescribed that the debtor was the first change, the audit reports on the estimated value of the company and certain legal effects and the legal consequences of not reporting the claims and the performance of the tasks, litigation or administrative proceedings were attached, meaning that part was more clearly defined. Through other amendments, we were doing the law because we were harmonising it with payment deadlines when, we had a deadline in June 2013, and it was about harmonising payment deadlines with EU legislation, so that's the second amendment. This third amendment relating to the adjustment of time limits for the delivery of the amended financial restructuring plan while allowing the debtors to make the amended financial restructuring plan more detailed and more precise and certain steps. Why did I say this introspective about these changes, because there are a number of criticisms that this law brings certain legal uncertainty and that it has already experienced a lot of changes in its application. I must say that given that in this House of Commons we have had full support of this law and I really thank you because when we adopt some new ways of restructuring corporate debt this is a completely new way, it means outside the court that through one administrative procedure, creditors agree on how to restructure the company. This was one newspaper, and this newspaper certainly, and in this one application, it certainly caused some doubt, let’s say not enough clear solutions and therefore the key reason for this number of changes. What is the paper in this amendment now is that exactly now it is prescribed who submits a proposal to launch a bankruptcy procedure because the current formulation could lead to different interpretations so that it is prescribed that the proposal is submitted by the FINA Finance Agency or the settlement council. Exactly, so we've defined it correctly in the law, so who's tolerating unless the conditions are met in the pre-demand settlement that FINA actually initiates the entire bankruptcy procedure, it triggers it when someone appears in the pre-demand settlement process. In addition, the content of the report on the financial situation and the business of debtors is complemented by adding a list of all proceedings of litigation, administrative, executive, insurance procedures that the debtor leads to third parties. This change was therefore necessary in order to ensure that participants of the pre-departure settlement procedure, or all of the debtor's creditors, have insight into its overall financial situation and their obligations to which a third party may potentially be judged or terminated in their favour. This is also to say a little bit of strengthening of this legal certainty when someone opens up a pre-demand settlement procedure to know, meaning some of his off-balance sheet obligations and that's crucial at the time of the submission itself we said that he still cites their obligations as a litigator, executive or various actions leading to other bodies. Also, what is most important in this part is that the deadlines for the amended financial restructuring plan are adjusted to 15 days in order to stay within those deadlines while allowing the debtor to not vote after the voting hearing on which the amended financial restructuring plan has not been voted until the new voting hearing is adjusted to agree with the creditors. So that's the newspaper where we're giving this another procedure, another possibility for the creditors and debtors to get in line with the financial restructuring plan. This has shown us the practice especially of large debtors that those in the first two let's say these steps have not yet agreed on how the company will look. And then it happened to us, and that's why we brought this regulation that the large companies are up to 1,000 employees, that it was simply the procedureal need to agree once again on this amended plan so that companies don't go into bankruptcy, that they agree again, but it's important that the deadlines aren't broken that we actually cut from 30 to 15 days for this existing one and we give them another chance for them to agree so that the companies don't, because of that procedural let's say formalities, go into bankruptcy. It shall also be specified in more detail and in more detail the conduct of the financial agency with regard to the recording of the execution of the accepted basis for payment of the debt and, depending on what basis the payment was established and when it was received in the payment register. That's how it is, for example. determined that the basis for payment received after a temporary measure is determined, means the temporary deblockation of the debtor's accounts in the eyewitness will be accepted and recorded but not executed because we have said that in that part, in particular if some of the old obligations are to, that it does not disturb the pre-price settlement procedure itself. This also enables the debtor to deblock the account and continue his business and provides protection against abuse and retention to the executive in the event that the pre-price settlement procedure is not opened. So that's another let's say a relief in conducting the procedure. Moreover, what is added in these amendments is that it is possible to accept the basis for paying the creditors of the priority requests and after opening the pre-demand settlement procedure so that these creditors do not put themselves in a more unfavourable position since they do not report their claims in the pre-demand settlement procedure. It also makes it impossible for the debtor to avoid paying priority requests. So what did we want with these articles? We wanted to strengthen the priority demand for labour claims even stronger because they have so far said, we said that those workers who are in this pre-fashion settlement process do not have to report their process in the pre-fashion settlement process but that they are automatically, that they automatically time as priority claims. And so far, so far, it has been up to the opening of the pre-demand settlement procedure that these priority labour claims must be reported. And then the question arises what if they are at that point, until the opening doesn't report that they would later lose their right. Here we have allowed workers that all their, their priority claims can actually be in that part and reported after the whole process, means both during and after the opening of the procedure. And what is further added to these amendments is that in the procedure of making a settlement before the trade court, the Republic of Croatia is represented by the State Attorney's Office. That's what we didn't have in these first readings, so in this part of the Republic of Croatia it represents the State's Attorney's Office, it's additional, and it's about the cost of pre-fashion settlement. So far, this amount has had to be raised, and we have now said that, in accordance with the Ministry of Justice, we have agreed that in another way these specific costs will be covered. And then we... for small entrepreneurs, how high these costs are, for medium and large enterprises. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I'd just like to say for a little while what the financial effects of this law are. So until yesterday 5632 proposals were received. The 5632 proposals reported 50.9 billion kuna. And there were 43,000 836 employees employed in these companies. So about 44 thousand workers are through these 5632 proposals. What we consider to be great, meaning over 10 million kunas that are significant, have a very large number of employees is 589 proposals in them and have reported 46.2 billion kunas or even 91% of all applications reported, or have employed 30 thousand 388 workers. Since this Financial Business Act has been in place, their impact has been visible on a part of the liquidity because you know that it was somewhere in September 2012, somewhere around 44.5 billion, it means 30.11. with today's date, with a few days ago indifference still continuing to fall, month after month, and it is about 34 billion kuna. It's important to say that before the law was applied we had about 72 thousand blocked business entities, today we still have 60 grand, so about 10,000 business entities are less. However, it is certainly important that there are quite a few workers working in such blocked companies. To see what the effect of this pre-fashion settlement process is, we now feel that most of it has already been done in this year. Of these about 50.9 billion kunas resolved, so the pre-fashion settlement plan was accepted and he's now going either to courts or now the courts are confirming them. 22.6 billion, so out of 50 already 22.6 billion, are resolved means their total liabilities and over 22,560 jobs are in those companies that have accepted the restructuring plan, or we are talking about 1200 entrepreneurs. So we're talking out of these 5600, 1200 were accepted, but 3097 proceedings were rejected and reported 8.6 billion kuna, so these companies employ around 4300 companies. So these companies went bankrupt, and that's what we said about FINA triggering bankruptcy. When we're talking, look at 5630 companies, we've solved 80% of the pre-fashion settlement procedures, and when you see the one that's supposed to be restructured in this year, let's say we've restructured and now there's an extra step going. So we're in this first step let's say we stabilized these companies and that's what they're missing from them now that they're continuing... is the extra capital and crafts from the banks and that's what we're trying to do through the HBOR and the trust fund that when they've cleaned up their balance sheet and all the creditors agreed that they're going to move on with their business. Let me just give you an example of the comparison of bankruptcy and bankruptcy because one and the other actually solve the problems of the creditors and the collection of their claims. The comparisons work in a bankruptcy procedure since '96. By 2012 the procedure for the settlement of the search for the Republic of Croatia was 10%, so 10% of all claims Tax administration that had been charged. The worker demand was 32% of the workers charged their claims, so out of 1.9 billion kuna of the total established labour demand 615 million kuna workers charged. And here we're talking about in this pre-priority settlement procedure that employees are a priority demand and that the company can't go on doing business if they can't even write off their claims and they have to be 100% charged. I'm talking about pre-fashion, so 100% of the asking for a worker, or he can't, or he's going bankrupt. The bankruptcys gave us 32%. Only 11% of jobs were saved, so those companies that went into bankruptcy 21,781 employed workers either in those companies that went bankrupt, 23,00 workers remained working, so around 11% of jobs. You see 2000 left through bankruptcy, and already in this year more than 22,000 workers are left to work through this pre-fashion settlement procedure. To see what more of that collection structure, or how bad it is I say that, for example, In 2012, it was reported in bankruptcy 3.5 billion kunas in bankruptcy, charged 78 million kuna Tax Administration, be careful which have all these instruments. So 78 million kuna of 3.5 billion Tax Administration... in 2012 through bankruptcy, in 2011 out of 920 million kuna charged 568 million and in 2010 out of around 1.5 billion charged 74 million. So you see what the tax administration's demand procedure is compared to this part where we said that it's at least 30% through the pre-emption procedure. And according to the Ministry of Finance of the Tax Administration, more than 100 bankruptcys have currently been opened, procedures lasting more than 5 years and in which the amount of requests reported by the Ministry of Finance is around 628 million kuna. So far, 40 million kunas have been charged. So I'm giving you a comparison of what was done in a year through this administrative procedure that ultimately confirms the court and what was actually done through bankruptcy all this time. When we talk about whether they're all going to be charged and it's probably going to be a lot today that the kid won't charge, it's true. There's always the possibility of opening up bankruptcy in small businesses, if they think they'll better protect their claims, that they won't protect much through that part of the pre-fashion deal they always have... the possibility of bankruptcy. However, you must always make sure that bankruptcy is the most charged by those who have different creditors or banks. Watch out, when banks in bank bankruptcy couldn't charge 30% with... rights, the state in bankruptcy 10%. In these cases I speak generated when they were still, when something could be sold in 2007 when there was a market. And when we talk about 2011, you see yourself in bankruptcy in '12. 2% of state charges then you see how ineffective this system of protection of creditors is through bankruptcy proceedings. Through the pretense is agreed, it is always the whole time we are talking about the agreed will of the debtors and the creditors to try to restructure. So no one is forced in that section to participate, or anyone can open a bankruptcy if they feel that they will protect their claims better through bankruptcy than through a pre-determined settlement. I say once again, although this law has been making a number of changes to you because you unanimously supported this law and I think that this is a unique law for restructuring the economy, that it doesn't matter, it's often said in public about these and those businesses, I think your support was important that you proceeded with this law, and this law is now showing some results. If it needs to be done, we'll do it with you. And that is why we expect a very constructive and good debate from you today because it has been with this law so far and I think we should approach this law in a way that helps to restructure the Croatian economy, that... it is an important law and that here we are in examples that we are the first in the region to restructure the economy in this way and that other countries are already trying to copy this model of ours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61804	I thank the Deputy Minister. We're moving on to replicas. First honorary colleague Franco Vidovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61805	Thank you, dear Vice President. Deputy Minister, assistant minister. So here I have to say as far as legal uncertainty is concerned, first this institute proved completely justified when we brought it and well that we brought it unanimously, it shows its results and clearly as a new institute to show its weaknesses as well, but we'll improve it, it's not legal uncertainty, it's simply improving an institute that is completely new. But on the other hand, I'm sorry that this institute didn't exist before, that is, when you mentioned bankruptcy, there is... with me that you are familiar with here I think fellow Shuker who was also trying to solve this case. And you're trying to solve it today. It's a bankruptcy that lasts some 12, 13 years, and I don't know where even workers don't charge their claims anymore, where the state can't collect its claims so that it's one almost and unexplainable situation, and that's what's called non-legal uncertainty, but it's the absolute uncertainty of everyone in that process and the state and the workers and the creditors, all complete. So, on the other hand, I also have a situation in Sibenik Autotransport, where bankruptcy is also launched, and we also now have a situation that is already going on for some year because of the Croatian judicial system and because of the situation in Sibenik, unfortunately. There's even an interested investor, so let's call him a partner. However, the whole situation stands. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61806	In line with the reply, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61807	Thank you. Very short. This is a good thing you asked a question. The case of the Sibenik Autotransport has been open for a year and a half, nothing has moved. They didn't even come to the religious congregation. We have already solved three autotransport companies through the pre-profit settlement procedure, plans accepted. Chazmatrans Vukovar is a company that we have restructured, which the plan has been accepted, people work, are extremely satisfied, left behind jobs. Autotransport Karlovac also through a pre-fashion deal accepted plan, people working, can start new investments. Autotransport is the same islander. Three auto-transports were settled through a pre-fashion deal, we showed that we could restructure the company in 120 days, agree with the banks to move on. Autotransport Sibenik, unfortunately, for a year and a half. Whether he will experience the fate of this Revija, who has been working unfortunately for more than 20 years, no kuna has ever been charged by any state from Revija, or by workers, or by the state. So on such equative examples, it shows that whatever the missing law is, it still takes care of the jobs of the people who work in these companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61808	Second replica, colleague Ivanka Roksandić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61809	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Deputy Minister of Finance, you are co-responsible for the budget we have made, i.e. Most of them brought it yesterday. You said that you were satisfied with the effects of this law, so I have to ask you whether you will have to declare by the end of the year and the bankruptcy of the Ministry of Science, Education and Sports because I see that it will only solve what you did not provide for teachers and teachers. Maybe it's funny, but here I get a whole series of messages, calling teachers, teachers what's going to happen with their transportation, which is going to happen with their obligations to them. The budget is reduced year after year. In a few days, we may also have to pass a Law that begins to solve their problems. Since you are truly responsible for the adoption of this budget, for the lack of money in education and science, perhaps here is my suggestion that we also pass one such law for ministries that cannot respect the obligations of employees. These workers may also need to strengthen their demand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61810	In line with the reply, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61811	Thank you very much. Well, I mean, that's how this is also a very important question. Unfortunately, it's not about this part today, but when you talk about the responsibility of the Ministry of Science as regards budget cuts, you know that in this part of the rebalancing, and what Mr. Schuker was saying yesterday about the minister's responsibility, they broke through that part of the money, and other ministries co-financed the Ministry of Science as much as I think 600, 700 million kuna, and I ask you that the question that we said was the responsibility of the minister to provide the funds within their money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61812	Third replica, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61813	Thank you very much. Mr. Deputy, your explanation on the occasion of the amendment of this law from a political point of view was excellent, but with an economic one it wasn't very convincing. You are also announcing a second reading of this bill. This should be a rational solution, but this law will not help even ten readings. You're calling in unanimous. All I can say is my attitude. If I hadn't, yours, if I hadn't been to the Parliament here in this chair, I'd never have voted for a law like this. You speak and unilaterally explain the effects of this law. You're talking about the collection of workers' claims, but all you're talking about is the collection of workers' claims from a creditor. What about the billing of workers, the claim of a creditor's workman, the creditor's creditor. Not a word of them. They've been denied. Only the debtor was at peace, and two, three believers were saved, and thousands of other believers were destroyed by the same debtor. So that all this says best shows the fact that since this law has been in place, the economic downturn has been increasing and the number of unemployed is growing. If you've been able to save so much from a creditor, how come there's an increasing number of unemployed? Because it's about that. You can't look unilaterally. Well, there's only one creditor in one bank account in 2000. Nobody cares about them. But when they're chosen, then they can do what they want with these small and powerless ones. And that's why you have to look at it from all sides. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61814	The replica matches Deputy Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61815	Thank you. Well, I'm sorry you feel that way about this law. So, who we said was voluntary. So he's voluntary, and he doesn't force anyone in that section to go into the business of pre-demand settlement, or if he thinks he'll collect his claims better, so I'm talking about creditors through bankruptcy, let him go through bankruptcy. So he was left with the opportunity to charge that part. Let me just tell you a few, how complex the cases were, so we're talking, we're not just talking about the big ones. For example, the Institute... A billion and 700 million kuna. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So it's not just big. They're numerous. If you knew about Dalekvod when it was spoken of, the numerous actually had to make a voluntary agreement on what he would write down, what he wouldn't do. Most of the Dalekvode are actually not, but it's a different way of restructuring. So about this part, this is voluntary, so where they have to deal with it. Unless there's a deal, if there's no deal, it moves into bankruptcy. Well, then, and practice, unfortunately, shows us that we were not charged through bankruptcy proceedings. Unfortunately, we didn't charge anything. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61816	The next replica of counterpart Dujomir Marasovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61817	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Prime Minister, you said the indifference of the fall, and I wanted to mention the indifference of our ministries, primarily education and sports. The minister should resign because he spent more than he had to, and now he can't pay what he has to. He has to resign, he has to. He doesn't have to, but minimally decent behavior has been resigned. Your Honor, Mr. Prime Minister, you've listed 50 billion and a few million dollars to solve 26 billion. I'm asking you how many states did she get out of it if you've solved something? She didn't get anything, but the state forgave it all together or someone else, but I'm talking about the state money she gave or forgave someone. In fact, something almost identical is being done here as the state used to give losers to keep them alive, give out their money, and here she has now given a post-festum of her money. So it doesn't make any difference, it's no healthy behavior whatsoever. This should have been about seeking the responsibilities of these people who brought these companies into this situation. Without the criminal prosecution of those who brought these companies into this situation, this doesn't make sense. There are also great stories that various companies through their daughters have been doing malfeasances through this pre-banking process. That's basically the most important question, is this all clear? And the last thing I'm going to tell you is you, Mr. Prime Minister, you, we all, if you will, if we raise a unanimous hand for this, have re-nationalized certain funds to certain privates because it's not true that everyone has a right. No, it's a big deal when a kid has to accept it or doesn't accept it, but he doesn't care. So you alienated his property against his will.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61818	Thank you, time. This is Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61819	Thank you. So when you talk about how many states she's written off so I know that the previous governments in all the last 10 years mean every time she's been trying to help the economy that they've been looking for different solutions to help the economy. That's what other countries do, that's what Germany does, other countries did, and when that part of the crisis happened, I don't think there's anything to say immoral in that part. The only problem is that the state does not bear the burden of restructuring itself but to bear in this case the largest banking sector and others to bear the burden of restructuring the economy and not just the state. Because in times past it's as far as I know, only the state of most of them, and then it used to be declared state support. Through this model if the state writes more and if... in that part can be considered state support. And that's why it's very careful, so when it's being negotiated, make sure it's not state support. And what I forgot to say in the introduction we will until the second reading hope to give you a full report with companies as far as it actually was written off are banks, how many states, how many other believers are. And this is our goal to show the effects in a very clear and transparent way here in this House of Commons, means but with concrete measures etc. So hopefully, I don't know we want to get to the second reading, but I will certainly promise you that in the first quarter there will be a full report on the impact on pre-fashion settlements with groups of creditors who wrote off and if I say you have any suggestions on how to improve he's still welcome.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61820	The next line is a respected colleague, Zdravko Ronko. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61821	Thank you. Mr. Deputy, here by me this law is, or the changes are extremely good and they have given certain results when we passed this law and it is good that it is unanimous that some might have signed or deposited this voice before the drug users. But not only have some managed to solve and solve an extremely high - quality settlement through a pre-fashion settlement. I'm going to mention, let's say, the fires of the Orjav, it's the textile industry, mostly women, etc., extremely well further they continued to function. What I would like to point out is that some even avoided going into a pre-determined settlement had already immediately fled to bankruptcy. Why? Because the bankruptcy takes too long, because during that time, there is still much that can be cleaned up in that company and the owners have tried and managed to clean up a lot so that one day, one fine day in a row and there is bankruptcy almost nothing of the company remains. I'd like to ask you next, but here's the deal. I accept that you'll give us that information until the second reading. Namely, you mentioned that FINA must launch further bankruptcy. And that's quite a bit of a stretch, my data suggests that FINA doesn't run those bankruptcys, that FINA transfers this to some other institutions is being twisted by the lack of money to launch bankruptcy, etc. I repeat, transfer to other bodies and other institutions. So I'd like to ask that in that sense we get some information here to another reading if you can't give it to me right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61822	Replication response, Deputy Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61823	Thank you very much. So that FINA triggered bankruptcy but unfortunately at first the courts didn't open up bankruptcy and that was the problem when they were wondering how much that bankruptcy cost. You know that when it was 2011, 70,000 companies were blocked, 70,000. By the way of the 20,000 bankruptcy opening, that's a billion and a half kuna to be paid to the courts to start doing something at all, a billion and a half kuna. And now the question of that money is gone in the budget, there's no budget to pay that billion and a half kuna. We are through this modality where we have said that the cost of bankruptcy here should be borne by those of the one you restructure if you find something in this process, and there are also changes to the bankruptcy law where that part will be harmonised. So I think the way of funding and this pre-price and bankruptcy will now be much more qualityd than that believer who had all the words, he couldn't collect the claims and then he had to make more pay and he still had to pay 20 thousand kuna to let us know and he knew he wouldn't even charge that 20 grand. So that was the problem of 70,000 companies, billions and a half of kuna we needed to run. We started something with this. I hope the funding mode and we present bankruptcy through these models now and solve it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61824	And the last replica, the esteemed Mladen Marelić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61825	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, Assistant Director. I think this pre-fashion deal is quite well and well processed because at least we in Korcula remember the bankruptcy of Incoship which is 15 years and hasn't finished yet. It means bankruptcy managers go best and workers go very badly and everyone else. It happened to us that the pre-fashion deal went with HTTP Korčula. I think it's a successful and well-done job, that all the workers are settled, so everyone's satisfied, that the creditors, the bank and the state, each part of them gave up their share, found a partner who'll already have power to work on tomorrow, and I think that saved the hotel company of Korcula is 135 employees and circus close to 200 seasons that work. And I think it's a good try, a start, and only with this law will we still work on so that it's as little trouble as possible, that it goes as fast as possible, and I think it's on the right track and I really thank the citizens and workers of that company because all the workers of Korčulana know who gave up and how many states have given up and how many banks and creditors they've given up on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61826	The replica matches Deputy Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61827	Thank you. So I'm glad you noticed that the main objective of this was to preserve jobs. So we're through these pre-fashion deals for now where the plans were accepted 22.5 thousand jobs were saved in these companies. And I'm sorry there's actually some misunderstandings, and you've seen that the constructor is also an extremely important construction company that's been saying since 2009 in difficult problems. You've seen a thousand jobs recently saved through the instructor. Through a number of construction companies that are unfortunately heavily restructured because through a separate department where banks and construction firms could not, through a pre-demand settlement there are numerous hotels, you know that we have now given them that they can preserve jobs and that they can continue to be financed, so that the main intensity of this law has just been to preserve jobs and I think they would have a much higher number of unemployed that this law was not. If it were ideal, it's not ideal, but at least it's trying to save that part of the job that's being saved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61828	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate, first by the clubs. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Party, a respected colleague, Nancy Tyrelli, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61829	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Assistant Director, colleagues and colleagues. So I support your proposal, Deputy, that we go into two readings because I hope that today and here we now see from your opening statements that we have a lot of unknowns and a lot more to solve, and how complex this law is probably, and the fact that since the law was passed, we are the first time that we have 93 articles of the first Government regulation 40 so that by amending the law, we add 24 more articles and now we add 13 more articles to the second government regulation is certainly in favour of such a claim that we need to work a lot more. I wanted to start by saying, at the beginning, an explanation of the bill that we received is not good quality so that the law could be discussed qualityly, and this very announcement that by the second reading is going to be some sort of analysis is extremely commendable but an analysis that would confirm what is actually going on should contain some basic data and that is, in the first place, not only the total number of business entities but should be broken down into legal entities and trades and later I will confirm why I claim it. The second thing that the analysis should have is how long the companies that went ahead are obliged, which is the basis of the debt, so how much these companies owe to the state on the basis of taxes, contributions, how much they owe to banks and how much they owe to their creditors and how much they owe to their related companies, how much small craftsmen and how much large companies. So, these are all the data that should be public in order to be able to discuss this law in a quality way and finally to say what this law is or did not bring, or how much of it we have received, and it would be extremely important in that analysis that we have also the data on how much debt was written off, how much of this debt was written off by the state and how many were written off by the creditors themselves and again in the part that they wrote off the related societies and how much they wrote off, or how much was written off by those small crafts. If we see that we have a total, my data differs from yours because I did it a few days ago when we were supposed to have this law on the agenda, so here's what we're going to do. So, a few days ago, we had 40 thousand 458 business entities that had been blocked for more than a year and that had to open up for bankruptcy by applying this law and so far, and by that day, we had 5 thousand 558 items from which it was visible how many of them entered into the pre-departure settlement as soon as the law came into force. And if we see that last year's debt, at the end of September before the law was 29.2 billion kuna and the current debt a few days ago of nearly 50 billion, then we see that a large part of the pre-gauge that was opened in this year refers precisely to those business entities that entered the blockade this year and whose debt is larger than, therefore, a debt longer than 60 days which resulted then and the obligation to open up the pre-trial. With 1066 of them in the process. So thanks to this pre-fashional decrease in insolvency by 10 billion kuna as you write in the preface of this bill, we have this information, but still we do not have the exact data of preserved jobs according to that analysis of large or small entities, crafts or legal entities. We're saving companies with a debt greater than 10 million kuna but we don't have the structure of that debt again. How long was this debt, whether it was enterprises that hadn't paid their debts to the state for years and to their creditors, or whether it was a debt created here because of this business crisis, let's say in a short time. Out of 43,000 525 employees in these companies, the plan has so far been accepted and a settlement has been concluded for companies that employ 20 thousand 977 workers at 48%. 4000 492 items have been solved, which means 3 thousand 332 items have been rejected and more than 8 thousand employees in these cases. And it would be extremely good if we knew why these cases were rejected, were they rejected because companies did not give quality financial plans or restructuring plans? Were they rejected because that's what to say about the tax administration or for the Ministry of Finance were irrelevant companies with one or two employees? Are they rejected because they did not respond to a call from the pre-departure council to provide you with certain documentation? So that's all the data we need to know that we could think about this pre-price settlement in quality. There's a few things going on here in practice, and we've heard one of them here today. So we have a case of related companies. We have one case of companies in Pula that was next. So, a company that for years, but really hasn't paid their debts to anyone has opened up a front. During that pre-flight period, it requested a delay of two or three times for the delivery of the necessary documentation. In the opening of the pretenses, the believers reported their claims. They've been granted a postponement. Meanwhile, as the tourist season came, they even unblocked a jury that was blocked for large amounts, a lot of millions and particularly debt to the state. In those three months as long as the delay for entry into the pre-departure settlement took place, the related companies delivered to each other goods, accounts, invoices of suspicious origins, suspicious grounds without anyone paying attention. And in the end, we came to the situation that these very related companies were majority creditors in that one company, and normally they decided on how much debt they would be and how they would be charged. And we come up with that claim that Mr. Maric said before that really nobody cares how much of it they lose to say to the little believers who gave their goods and who just because of them, because they failed to collect from them they had to close. I'm going to look back for a little while. The minimum amount of unimplemented liabilities is therefore up to 60 days and is 55.5 million kuna in turnovers and the largest part in the blockade is over a year as much as 71.7% with 7.2 billion kuna in debt. And even 67% of those crafts don't have any employees. And that debt was usually created precisely because of the indifference. Blocked accounts in craftsmen up to 60 days increased by 1670 trades and a debt of 6.5 million kuna. In the case of large companies, the number of companies which are insolvent or insolvent for more than 60 days is increased but their debt is reduced, which means that they are less affected by liquidity at that time. And it would be extremely important if we could maybe change the policy and change the policy the next way. So all the trades that reported a pre-fashion deal have employees somewhere around 11,000 workers. But they don't seem to be interesting to us. Because in that premarital settlement, some jobs still need to be done, and they are very simple and very elegantly rejected and are not allowed or found for a thousand reasons not to open up a pre-profit settlement over them. On the other hand, these craftsmen are much less obliged to all, both to the state and to their believers than they are to the great players. I would suggest that, in pre-fashion proceedings, we take very good care of these very crafts so that we can open up the pre-emption for them as soon as possible. Because I categorically claim that they will pay their obligations much sooner than big businesses will do, to keep those crafts of nearly 11,000 jobs. We would make it easier for them to do business, in part in this way we would also compensate for this injustice that is happening in pre-determination precisely because of large businesses, and that these large companies are very much able to tell what we are going to and how we are going to do. And I would suggest that, until the second reading, we think extremely about when a large company will ask for the opening of a pre-profit settlement to find a model that from the launch of the pre-departure settlement process until the very adoption of a settlement solution, no matter how much delay this large enterprise has to have to repair its financial indicators or change its restructuring plans, in some ways we limit what jobs in that time can do just so that we don't get to the situation of the related companies where then the event of malversions that simply no one can influence and which really all of Croatia warn about. And I think as much as it's complicated with the fact that the pretense settlement has brought about shifts, we also need to be aware that people are warning, that they've already started to loudly warn about it, I'm not going to say that it is legal uncertainty but that it is an unequal act. The fact is, in this pre-fashion procedure, we're training again what we've already mastered, which is that all business entities are not the same to us. As long as every business entity that comes to a pre-departure settlement for the Ministry of Finance and the IRS is not equal, and if everyone is not treated the same way, this pre-fashion deal and the law on it after a few years will be a black stain that we will not be happy to remember here. And what I'd like to do until the second reading is that we certainly have that analysis that you promised in the way that I might have suggested here, that these two things that should be determined are not happening in pre-fashion situations like this. We have another problem to think about, which is paying fees to auditors precisely from companies with blocked gyro accounts, and now we have some auditor numbers of 20, 30 and more thousands of kunas that are now being paid in cash because they can't be paid through a gyro account that's blocked, and on the other hand, the auditor won't make an audit report to the company that opens up a pre-fashion deal. So in a way that we have protected the collection of the state in this sense, we need to somehow give that entrepreneur some space so that he can also have some face to face with that auditor to make him an audit report that he needs to start a pre-determined settlement, and that those amounts that are extremely large are not paid in black and cash again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61830	Thank you. We have a single replica on this exhibit. Dear Goran Maric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61831	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Comrade Tyrelli, you were talking about retaining workers in pre-determined posts. And what happens now that these companies are taking over those who are already tomorrow going to deliver the saved debtor to their connected tycoon, which is the fate of that saved pre-determined debtor tomorrow? To restructure the new owner, which involves firing workers, reducing business activity and selling out existing assets saved by those creditors who have suffered and the state by signing their claims. By tomorrow, that same debtor, who is a frontal debtor today, and tomorrow the saved debtor can and will become a new debtor. What's the guarantee that he won't be? He's gone. If we remember the fates of how the first phase was already such businesses when claims 10 years ago and more turned into equity shares, and when those who thus became the owners of companies, which was the fate of those companies. Hundreds of companies have been so committed and hundreds have fallen apart and workers have been subsequently fired, and the same has been said to be saving jobs. But it's not a legal solution that forces the deal. If it's a deal, and the deal is possible without a legal solution, but obviously it's not possible to achieve it, and now it's legally coerced into an agreement that corresponds to a minority to the harm of the majority. That is not a legal solution that respects equality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61832	The replica matches the respected Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61833	Yes, I agree with my colleague Maric, that's exactly the problem we all really need to think about together. I think we've already been burned a lot in that part to think in the short term in a way that we want to raise the funds needed by the state budget, that we want to collect those debts that the state has and to want to protect the minority again, entrepreneurs who are so to say at one point similar. And that's what I'm afraid is going to happen to us again, this one time period of 7, 8 or 10 years, where we're going to say the pre-fashion settlement wasn't good because we did it the same way we did some other things 10 years ago, guessing certain individuals, and that's that inequality that we all have to be sensitive to. Because it is precisely equality that can help every worker in Croatia to be equally important, whether it works with small or large entrepreneurs, and that our goal is really to keep jobs and help that little economy that we have that still works, but that they all work under the same conditions, not that some of them are in a more favourable position or that they are in a much, much larger, more favourable position because they are being written off to where and where the greater debts they have been doing for years in some hope that we will again pass a law that will go hand in hand.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61834	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected counterpart, Goran Maric, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61835	Your Honor, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister with an associate, an esteemed colleague and colleague. Your honor, Deputy, you said you were sorry I wasn't in this law, and I'm sorry that you're going to have to listen to what I think of this law. You've skillfully defended him, you've skillfully defended him, and here's a few things I'll say why it's indefensible. In everything I thought I could find something good, but with all the intellectual and professional effort to think about this Financial Business Act and pre-fashion settlement I failed. The maximization of this intellectual effort was most expressed at the Round Table of the Croatian Academy of Science and Arts called Croatian Insolvency Law, where the greatest authorities, legal experts with the presence and judges of the Constitutional Court literally massacred this law. Scientists supported Judge Kolakusic's remarks, praised his reaction in protecting and standing up against constitutional provisions and amoral provisions. Professor Dicka, one of the greatest authorities has presented 13 thesis on the counter-constitution of this law, and in just 11 months we are four times changing this law. Twice even the government changes regulations. Sometimes 40 articles, sometimes 64, are now proposed to amend another 30 articles. If that amendment itself and the government's regulation were not proof that it was a financial alchemy that Lemon Brothers would be ashamed of. Professor Dicka argues that the government should not have amended the law by regulations, because it has regulated the work of administrative and judicial authorities, because it has regulated procedural and legal circumstances, but also issues that can only be regulated by organic laws. And that's why Professor Dicka says the government took over the Parliament's powers, which is unconstitutional. No doubt economic totalitarianism has been introduced into part of the Croatian economy and economic barbarism has been passed. Isn't barbarism leaving owners and directors directors to the very ones who have ruined the debtor, and they remain owners of owners and directors of directors, and they are the most responsible for the status of the pre-departure debtor. Isn't barbarism allowed by pre-fashion deals for those who paid their profits, drawn money abroad, that they went into a pre-determined settlement. Did not barbarism enlarge those who did not pay the workers knowingly, allowing their property to be forgiven by the state. Don't pay your commitment, there's no more fraud in the economy, there's no greater sin, there's no greater dishonesty. And by this law we reward this lifestyle, the style of business life, the business culture of non-payment. That's not allowed. This law does not provide for a guarantee that rights are decided by a law established by an independent and impartial court, and that is then not in accordance with the European Convention. Those who do not have an executive correction are left to the mercy of the debtors, but are even exposed to expropriation, which is unnatural. The pre-party settlement also works against those who voted against the pre-departure settlement. Well, it's not parliamentary elections. The law on pre-fashion settlements has been acting around both benignly and innocently, but it is dressed in a legal shirt of great delusions and even greater dangers and the greatest fraud and economic and political and legal nature. There's no doubt as Professor Dick says. This is an orthodox, discriminating law that protects debtors and elected believers, which is directed against the majority of the believers. And who's holding them back? They're disproved first by a bankruptcy debtor, then by those great creditors, and by the most of all by the state. What could possibly be the point of having creditors in administrative and accounting operations become the owners of the stake. It doesn't make sense. What kind of legal system is this where a believer boasts that a pre-war settlement has succeeded and 70% of the demand is replaced by the wind. That can't be considered a success. If further strain should be made and the best attitude under this law can be concluded that this law is an example, a school example, an example that should not be seen. This is how law professors teach their students, this is a law that can't exist. But here he is again, as the professors of the Law Faculty say, a commissary approach. This is the result again says Professor. The Dick of Cryptocompressory Syndrome, and that syndrome does not produce equality. There's no court on the cryptosar approach, there's no justice, and that's the state doing what they want. There's a state that saves elected debtors, godfathers, relatives, friends, fathers, and all the damage to the faiths that are being expunged. And it is less important whether this law is a consequence and the result of ignorance or intent is more important that it offers disastrously discriminatory anti-civilisation and economic and socially destructive solutions. Is it normal that a believer can't initiate a pre-fashion procedure? Well, of course not. So who's supposed to be able to run it sooner if not a believer? Is it normal for a debtor to be legally required to run and the believer can't do that? Of course not. Is it normal for a believer who has been granted a request to have no right to question the existence of a search for fellow believers? Of course not. But the pre-departmental debtor devises a methodology to make related societies a new believer and actually decide for themselves. And there is no insight into this of a believer whose search has been granted. And that's normal? I don't think so. Is it normal for a judge to approve of a settlement that has no influence at all? Of course not. Is it normal for that same judge who approves of a settlement that has no effect on the settlement to decide tomorrow on the charges of damaged creditors? Of course it's not normal. Is it normal for a pre-nuptial settlement to be concluded before the Trade Court begins the administrative procedure? Of course not. And how tomorrow this Administrative Court can make a decision rather than the kind of deal that's been made before the Trade Court. He can't bring anything else. Of course that's not normal either. None of this is normal, nor moral, nor life, nor valid, nor in accordance with the Constitution. And then how do you vote for a law like this? Not at all. How do you raise your hand for a proposal like this? Not at all. Only when it is decided to abolish such a law, will all the hands of the HDZ agent be in the air. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61836	We've got 10 signed-up replicas on this exhibit. First, Igor Radenovic will replicate, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61837	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, Mr. Maric, you spoke on behalf of the HDZ Club, and I have to admit that I don't really understand your debate right now, I haven't actually succeeded in all of these qualifications that you've presented barbarism, anti-civilization, catastrophic, not normal, not life, etc., etc. This bill of law. This is the second or third time that we, for the third time, are correcting this law. We brought it in October 2012 if I'm not mistaken. And that's when the HDZ club backed this bill. Your colleagues on the Committee on Finance, where we discussed all these three or four times alive and when we introduced and received information constructively on this law. We have concluded all together that it is necessary and that it is necessary to fix the situation in the economy that this solution has both countries and we have constructively approached this proposal. I repeat, HDZ supported this law, so I don't understand how on behalf of the HDZ Club, less repairs meant the most difficult thing to bring, give up bankruptcy, try to internal indivisibility 45 billion solve a new better solution, give up the bankruptcy procedures that last over 10 years and charge 2, 3 or 5%, and all of this was the HDZ government's peaceful observation and I was truly pleased that your fellow prominent economists in the most prominent part supported this law and had on it a number of constructive contributions as well as all of us as all the professional public, etc. And now you say barbarism, anti-civilization, catastrophic, not normal, not lifelike. Or, and I say less are changes... Something obviously doesn't work in that policy of yours or politics just let's crash whatever it is, even if it's good solutions. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I don't like that approach. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61838	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61839	Thank you very much. A colleague of Rajenovic's has many laws in him and delusions and their intentions are hidden. That's how this law was wrapped up with hidden intentions. All the qualifications that I have expressed in most are qualifications from the scientific assembly and round table of the highest recognised authorities of legal experts and academics and university professors and I have quoted them. And how do you think of some law when the law is opposed even to the court, and then there's a pressure on the court. If one of the HDZs had put pressure on Judge Kolakusic as you did, and the government would have asked for shifts and would have been replaced ministers afterwards because it is outrageous in democracy to do such a pressure. Well, that was just done at Tito's time when he was saying don't stick to the law like a drunk float. Finally, the time has come to Croatia for judges to think professionally and to maintain their dignity and profession. And to stand up against all the illegal and anti-constitutional provisions, and not then to draw him out to have big ears or maybe he didn't come home at night, but to talk about what he was doing, and the media hack to judges who opposed the implementation of such non-executive provisions was unseen, and the ministers preceded it. Isn't that amazing? And I'm sure anyone who knew how this law would apply wouldn't raise a hand to this law but it carries in itself covered intentions, hidden intentions. This law was written by some institutions, not the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61840	Thank you. We haven't heard the answer to the question, but we'll hear another replica. Damir Tomic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61841	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Maric, barbarism took place in the 1990s when HDZ, with its policy, ruined 3,000 companies and thus created 300 thousand unemployed. It's barbarism and it's immoral. And you mentioned there was no greater dishonesty in the economy. I'd say that the consequences of that today and that we wouldn't have had this law. When we talk about bankruptcy, isn't the bankruptcy of the same companies that you ruined in the '90s policy an additional waste of these companies. This pretense settlement is an attempt to save what can be saved. And you mention scientists, Dick, Constitutional Court, Judge. Where these people were in the '90s when they were robbed, why those people weren't voices back then, and why you're trying to advocate leaving this House to the Constitutional Court. That's enough of that.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61842	You have to contact your colleague Maric in time. I'll give you a chance to respond.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61843	Thank you very much for this, Mr. Vice President. Well, then I'm not gonna go with the raid as you're trying to get my MPs to replicate, so I'm gonna watch it a little more tolerated. Comrade Tomic, what you just said is pure demagogy. In the '90s, you forget what happened in the '90s, but I don't want to talk about it at all, about the war, about the destroyed, not one-third of the occupied Croatia, which is what you say and I know the easiest way out of my throat. But you'd better follow scientific symposias and gatherings and see what scientific and thinking people say. Read, you have minutes with the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts meeting. It's not the only one that said that, uniquely, they were in the view that this is a discriminatory law, that this is barbarism in the economy. Well, I don't mean that clearly, that's what all those who think about it think about but the easiest thing to think about is just to stick to political ideology, but that's how it comes to us, after the consequences of this kind of country as we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61844	I can't talk anyone into replicating you in any way, I can only record those who report, and so is Marin Jurjevic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61845	My colleague Maric, after your exposé, I'd have concluded that this law was written by some kind of Illuminati, or by some masseuse, or by someone who, is your exposure filled with such illusions, secretly, this, that planting, etc. The fact is HDZ supported this, the question is, who's cheating? Who's the con man? Are the cheaters employees who are waving at this bill? Was HDZ a fraud when he supported a law like this? Is the HDZ con man now that he's through you saying what you're saying on behalf of the club? Indeed many questions are raised but I also cannot agree with you that it can be forgotten that in the 1990s, 350 thousand jobs were stolen, destroyed, buried through privatisation, that during the war while people were killed, but then privatisation and conversion was made. At that time, 350 thousand jobs and problems that tomorrow’s government may not be able to solve until the end because they are the condition in which we live. You're saying you're referring to science and here we're pounding phrases that are ideological, ideological, and not so scientific and that I would refer to a scientific set, you know, scientific gatherings there are both like this and like that. There are scientists who think one way or the other. This is a political body, we are the Supreme Legislative Body of the Republic of Croatia and we are talking as politicians and we are covering ourselves with scientific cloaks saying it's not exactly for me at this point most credible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61846	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61847	My colleague Jurjevic, you speak as politicians, it is obvious, and I speak as a politician, and that is a big difference and of course, then our conclusions are quite the opposite. How can something be good if in this case some institutions can take over society and under another law have an obligation to take over that society and under this law do not have a obligation to take over society even though they gain more than 25% of the stakes. How is that possible? I'm not gonna say what I think about it again? Here I quote, Professor Garasic said that this law is an undefined role of the court and that they are open throughout the door for abuses and that such a law must not exist. The abuse is referred to by university professors as I do as a polythecony. But when you speak who privatised Croatia, at least members of the HDZ. Was Ante Markovic the late HDZ? Or the one who led the movement to Yugoslavia, and the largest financial institution he privatised without a single kuna into the Croatian budget. I know he's awful bad, because you don't want to hear this. Is HDZ guilty of breaking up the market in the '90s? Yes, because he created Croatia, it's his fault. And this part of the assembly has left Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61848	New replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61849	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow, of course, we don't have to agree on certain and laws and consider the arguments why yes or, yes or no. But when you say about one law, it's a butcher's approach, it's a disaster, it's discrimination, it's nothing normal. I have to admit in these two years that I haven't heard such an excuse for any law and anything else you've said about it. So you're saying that administrative accounting procedures solve it all together, that it looks seemingly good and it's not right. I will not enter the '90s, the conversion, because I think we are still discussing a very important law which, at this point, by the Croatian State, the Croatian Government, the Ministry of Finance and, of course, as a legislative body is trying to literally help and extract the private sector that has gotten into trouble. Then arguing as well as colleagues before, saying that Croatia's Democratic Community positively expressed its vote in favour of the basic law that we passed a year ago is really not clear to me from what aspect you are discussing, whether on behalf of the HDZ Club or on behalf of certain scientific circles which, as both colleagues have said, can also have discussions in one way or another. What's the key to this is essentially law, which is that it's managed to complete some 1200 procedures is 17 billion kunas successfully realised, closed, covered, paid, recapitalised that no one has taken anyone's company without him signing it and that it has agreed to this restructuring. Therefore, it is not an ideal law but certainly a law which at this point is much, much better than bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61850	The replica corresponds to the respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61851	Thank you very much. Comrade Gjurkovic, those who said it was a commissary approach, you know how they supported it? Since it's not a commissary approach, I'm going to quote again when the minister appoints a council of pre-fashion settlements. The Minister shall appoint a council of pre-war settlements. His ministry also decides on complaints. And he also appears as a believer. And what is that, then, rather than a commissary approach? Where is the constitutional principle, experts on equality and rule of law are asked. The way in which the settlement council is elected and the Commissioner of the Pre-Agreement Agreement is declared exclusively by the Commissioner and the Party's law. That's the conclusion of the scientific set. I know you hate to hear this, but this law is only tailored to individuals. And now that the individuals have settled down, they've saved everyone else and the state, then we're going to change that the ministry no longer represents the ministry but the state's attorney's office. And then how is it supposed to go, then how are you going to get through the next one? Not at all. And who's asking for their rights? No one. Is it possible in a democratic state that someone must direct his claims in such a way as others decide and not him? So tell me if it's normal, is it natural, is it rational? I have claims against Frani Matušić and you decide what will become of my claims and you consider it normal. I don't think so, and I would never agree to that. Not even at the cost of party pressure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61852	With the new replica, Mladen Marelić stands up.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61853	Thank you, Vice President. A colleague, Maric, a colleague of Radinovic, said more about the law. I'll just tell you something that's not demagogy, it's reality. The Hotel Korčula in 2000 dealt with a minus, then the Supervisory Board was changed there, 4 years of government, coalition authorities, we came back to plus. But unfortunately, it comes in 2005, '04/'05. where the company achieved 127 million debt and 50 million cabled loss. That's what happened. It's barbanism, it's a shame for this country. No one pressured the judges, the court who made such a decision because all the religious people who were there, I mean more than 80%, and more than that, they unanimously accepted a pre-fashion settlement. I think that's the purpose of this law and the workers are satisfied. And it's a shame you feel that way, that you're talking about existing companies that are in a pre-fashion deal. And I'm glad my Korčulani hears your opinion if that's still the HDZ's attitude, that's an even bigger problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61854	Reply to the replica Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61855	I have no doubt that this law has brought some good and I have no doubt that they praise this law and it is logical but they look narrow and short-sighted, not looking at the width. I'm unhappy if I'm full and everyone around me is hungry. And this is exactly what's happening. You fed one and left all the others with no food and no water and no drinks. And they're dying. You're creating an amorphous structure in a pre-determined obligor, an unnatural, unreal structure that will then burst again. How is it possible that the director who you are also agreeing that barbarism is what he did, how did he stay? ... Here's where they say he's HNS's, I don't care who he is. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] But if the director has ruined the company and has now become a frontal debtor, how is it possible by this law that he remains the director? It's possible, most of them stay and the owners protect themselves. The ownership structure does not change. And to whom tomorrow, I dare say to the bank, in the greatest case, to deliver such companies? But it suits them because they're resuscitating themselves, they don't have to answer, it doesn't even affect the adequateness of capital, but I know that many unfortunately don't understand what's behind it. And they don't have to publish the download. So why is it not worth the law on taking over for this Act on pre-demand settlement that if they become majority owners of payments at the same price those who did not agree to a pre-demand settlement, for a just solution. No, it's a three-way deal with a frontal debtor to trick thousands of other creditors. And as far as we know about their fates, we know almost nothing because everything seems to cover up the fate of such.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61856	The vice president of the House will now be replicated, dear Dragica Zgrebec. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61857	Thank you very much. Comrade Marić, if the dictionary of scientists is what you were saying today, then I am deeply concerned about Croatian science, if scientists argue so. But I'll only say four sentences about this law. A pretense settlement is a voluntary procedure for a believer. If the credentials don't agree, there's no pre-emption settlement. This is about a debtor who's matured for bankruptcy. Pre-departure settlement speeds up bankruptcy, so if according to our current bankruptcy law if it went into reconstruction it could also take years, here is the time limit as long as it lasts. If no settlement is reached, if no pre-demand settlement is made, the liquidation or bankruptcy shall take place. And I'd say the believer is also responsible if he's doing business with such a business partner who hasn't paid him for years and gets into a situation where he has huge claims. But you've asked a few questions here that you've been saying is an abnormal procedure. I'll just ask two questions on which we can tell if they're normal or abnormal. Is it normal that the state doesn't pay for a few years of its commitment? It's not normal. And is it normal that the state doesn't collect its claims for years, selectively, just from some and for example? to get to the point where he's looking for a state of 53 billion kunas of various government grants? And that's insane.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61858	Replication response, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61859	Fellow Zgrebec, there are published records and articles so that all this used termology is indeed, whether you are concerned or not but it is a termology that has been used and used. But I understand that termology because things should sometimes be called the real name and last name because if they're not called then they're not even clear enough. Because of the dangers of this law, such a dictionary is chosen because it cannot reach another's ear otherwise. When you're saying that if there's no deal, the believer doesn't have a predicate settlement, that's not true. Only exists if most of the believers agree to show their claims, and one who has been granted claims, and does not influence it and does not, there is no insight into the demands of those believers who decide or have insight. ... It can only be a lawsuit and be assured that the lawsuit will be hundreds and hundreds and the lawsuits will be decided by the judge who is the settlement, before which the pre-war settlement is established. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Isn't that absurd? Of course it's not normal what you're saying, but it's not normal for administrative proceedings to be conducted, and the deal has already been reached in a commercial court. It is impossible to make a different decision before the Administrative Court than the one reached before the trade court, and it is indeed not normal. We can call it impregnable, that it's ineffective, but it's not normal. Deposed, if there's no agreement, there shouldn't be any pre-determined settlements.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61860	Thank you very much. The new replica will be presented by Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61861	Thank you. Coliga Marić, here's a colleague, Marelić, has already set one example just forgot to say that the director at the head of the company was their frame, but I will give you another example from the same county, it is a winery. The winery that turned into black by many winemakers who were co-operatives of the same winery, why, because of the pre-deprived settlement, because the bank’s largest believer protected itself naturally through interest cuts, i.e. the differences in interest, but the creditors were reduced by 60% by other small winemakers living alone, written off or deleted. So the remaining 40% is due to small winemakers, according to co-operatives, the wineries will be paid in the next 20 years, and the three seasons have not paid them any money for harvesting from which top wines are made. Here's a classic example where a great believer, in this case one bank has protected its interests by not giving up its debt to them, i.e. the claims they have towards the winery, and on the other hand, the creditors who did not agree to this small winery are simply cut off, erased 60% of the debt, 40% will get in the next 20 years. De facto what they're going to get is nothing when you look at the primary debt. And, of course, it's the krypto-communist law. I listened to Honorable Professor Jakš Barbic a few days ago who said that the profession said all the worst and that it was amazing that the law was passed in the Croatian Parliament at all, but that the Constitutional Court would also discuss it and that it would be good to wait for the final solution and the Court's view of it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61862	Now let's listen to the answer of the respected Goran Marić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61863	Thank you very much. My colleague Matušić, I am pleased that you will follow what is happening at professional and scientific meetings. And as for how certain believers view a frontal debtor. And just before I was called that he was glad to hear on Korčula what I think of the pre-war settlement. But I am also glad to hear the taxi drivers of Zagreb what I think of the pre-profit settlement and the winery on Peljesc. Because the taxi drivers from Zagreb know how discriminated against some other taxi drivers whose law, whose state has forgiven and can freely pass through the centre of Zagreb. And those who were pardoned unfoundedly cheated on by employees, cheated on the state and were rewarded for it, and those who work honestly are fairly paid for it now are being damaged. Is that possible? Of course, according to this law, it's possible. And no one asks where the money is from a frontal debtor. If a front-runner owes 3 billion kuna, 2 billion, and a billion and a half and directors and owners remain the same, and no one asks what these owners have acquired in the meantime, how much they have paid abroad for their accounts and where that money is. No, it's important to cover the trail. Let's write it all off, and let's keep this what they've acquired to forget they've won. And they're still running pre-emptives, and what happens to related societies is a special story, and there's no insight into it by this bankruptcy believer who's been granted the search, but he doesn't know if anyone invented it, he even has official data to say some institutions have more reported claims than they really have. That's official information, too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61864	The eighth replica and Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61865	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Maric, you said in the introduction that you tried to find at least something good, which is always an emergency with the law so you could talk about this law, and then Col. Jurjevic said that this high legislative House is actually there to pass good laws that could improve this economic situation and that it is our wish to all. And I want to believe what my colleague Jurevic said. However, the pre-war settlement was welcomed as a rescue for most companies that were under bankruptcy or bankruptcy. And it was logical to expect that this law had succeeded in increasing the number of employees, to happen and increase investments, i.e. to increase GDP, but that did not happen. And I'm glad you talked about a little talk about paying off a creditor of a creditor, or not talking about the money of a front-end debtor, because that's exactly what put a large majority of companies on their knees in the area of the Imot area that were co-operatives to large companies. Now they're believers, the least spoken of, and that's actually the whole area of the Imot area that brought them to their knees. Here, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61866	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61867	My colleague Babic, I said that even with the greatest effort, it is possible to give the slightest definition, that this is a school example, an example of how the law must not look. It's again a qualification of a university professor from law school. I'm glad you recognized that most of the believers were damaged by this. And why is that? Well, because of the political monopoly of the Minister and the Ministry of Finance. There's no worse monopoly than a political monopoly! The economic monopoly is only worse politically, and he's just here in action. The minister determines, the minister judges, the minister decides on the appeal, the minister appoints a council, the minister decides everything. And when it affects what kind of decision the others make. And there is no deal, but there is or take or leave. Which remains for those who fairly delivered their goods and cannot charge them. Thousands of craftsmen of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs were killed. Their workers are fired, they're out of pay. And nobody asks them. They are fair and in debt, selling their own assets to pay for their liabilities, and those saved by the state bought property and businesses to pay their creditors and their suppliers. Isn't that a shame? How can we look so normal at such phenomena? So we have to stand up against such phenomena. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61868	Let us now listen to the replica of the respected Ivan Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61869	I was happy to hear Mr. Maric's presentation, and I think it's at the level of profession, objectivity and good intentions. What we lack is undeveloped democracy and three French revolutions of krill. We lack responsible freedom, equality before the law and brotherhood among people. When the two hundredth anniversary of the French Revolution was marked, the peaceable Pope John Paul II said that they were winged from the Gospels. I agree with that. A Christian cannot imagine unless he appreciates the freedom of responsible freedom of another unless he lives and testifies the brotherhood amongst people regardless of differences and if we are not all equal before the law. In this I praise the representative Marić and I think he has shown that he can deal with the challenges, any challenges we face and that's good. And as he quoted scientists and used their words in the discussion, I don't think his presentation was necessary because he was very clear in his views. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61870	The replica matches Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61871	My colleague Grubisic, I am pleased that you have indicated to everyone the need for equality, and this law has violated equality. And in the market, the most necessary is the equality of all participants. This law legalises inequality and legalizes immorality that preceded this inequality. That's why I'm against it. And imagine the consequences that can arise when the European Commission can declare any such transaction with state support within 10 years and cancel such settlements that will result in unseen consequences for the Croatian economy and Croatian society. And it will come to this because equality has been violated. You were also talking about freedom. There's no greater need, I agree with you than freedom. But freedom of mind and freedom of choice. But how can we talk about freedom when there is no entrepreneur freedom to decide his own but that freedom is committed to the hands of another to decide. So would you ever agree to have someone decide for you? This law decides. And that's why I'm glad that you're also calling on the book, so if some people read it, I mean the book of the original capital, if they read it, then they'd never pass or vote for it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61872	Next replica, Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61873	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A colleague, Marić, for a year in the application of this law, has crystallized three questions and we need to discuss these three issues today and during the second reading. Is it one thing that this law in Croatia has really reduced indifference? The answer is no, and that should be made clear. We're simply by administrative means those who've been blocked off that list and thus reduced. So that's a fact, and that's the way to talk about it because it's not good to say that there's been a drop in liquidity by so many and so many billions because these billions didn't come into the payment system of the Republic of Croatia, they didn't come into the financial circulation, and nobody got a drop on that basis. Two other issues to be discussed and which proved to be a lack of this law in its application are claims of related societies. What's the basis, if I own three companies, one thing got into trouble, for these two to ask the company? Well, as the owner of this company, I knew exactly what kind of risk I was taking, and with what right do these companies now demand from the first company? And I practically come in most cases in a position to decide what a pre-price settlement will look like. And the third thing that we must never forget, as well as in bankruptcy over the past 23 years, and in the implementation of the Act on Pre-price settlement, is the worst way by small believers. And let's not just forget that little believers unfortunately produce new cases that will take part in a pre-war settlement. And if we talk about these three issues with the basics of profession and legal and economic, then we're all going to have a positive discussion. If we are going to call out who privatised the biggest mistake of HDZ, it was that members of the Alliance of Communists who made the conversion during Markovic continued to play into HDZ. And it was the biggest and historical mistake of HDZ.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61874	Let's see how Goran Maric responds to that mistake.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61875	Well, I'll start at the end. Not only is it a mistake that they took them to HDZ, but they weren't arrested and imprisoned. And they weren't even supposed to get out of jail until today. That's what I mean. But I agree with this indifference issue that it has not been reduced and I have highlighted the particular demand of related societies. These claims by related companies should be excluded from the procedure. They must not participate in the decision-making process and must not be granted a claim because it was a malfeasance and it is a speculative action in order to deliberately influence the pre-trial settlement procedure. It must not be related to society in a pre-departure settlement, it must not participate. It makes that shift to decide exactly what you said to those little believers. And tomorrow they will deliver it again to their same owner. Eased, cleared balance, all great. And what's going on? After two years, it's the same problem again. Is that how you solve the economic problem? In this reasoning of the law, the state is clearly obliged to take care of economic development, and the instruments to address the crisis of liquidity and insolvency in the economic sector in line with the outlined objectives of fiscal policy and measures under the economic recovery programme. Is this the measure that the economic recovery has taken? Is this a measure that has increased employment? No, it's all the other way around. But no wonder, so look at what the vice president of the government says about the economy, what he's doing and where he spends his time then it's clear what state our country is in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61876	The last line is Dujomir Marasovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61877	Dear Mr. Maric, I was going to say something to Mr. Linic, a lover and acquaintance of a doctor who, because of the title of the primarius, has 500 kunas a month and therefore he calls them or calls him a criminal, but since the party has stood up on its feet, I will direct my replica in a different direction. So why are you and your friends sort of setting up like that? Do we always have to
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61878	Make sure you present the replica to Goran Maric, not the SDP club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61879	No, I'm not saying this to Goran Maric, I'm pointing the other way but it has to do with what Maric said. Why do we have to be here now against or for? We, Mr. Maric, also join this, we just want to say, something smells, something's not good. What's that smell? The state has not received a lipe so-called, no liquidity has been achieved, Mr. Lalovac's employment has not been saved 23 thousand jobs, it may have been saved, but according to the free budgets, more lost jobs that you have ruined, or that we have ruined this pre-fashion law of small entrepreneurs is thought to have lost more jobs. So we didn't achieve anything. We stole people's frees this isn't who said a political one process, this is an economic one logic, and you can't take someone's right to dispose of their property and we've abolished the right of someone to own their property. This is not good, or every day it gets more obvious that it's not good. And the highest crime to have these tycoons set up some companies and firms that bring in any bills and with these claims they take back the company when the state was cheated, when they were cheated on, etc., etc. So obviously something's wrong, why can't we talk about it this way today, but immediately HDZ privatisation. So who's...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61880	The time has expired for this replica, so we will hear the answer to it, Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61881	counterpart Marasovic, that this law will not lead to economic growth, is obvious. On the contrary, it will work, the effects will be the opposite, and it will be done at first sight because it looks in isolation, it is not seen broadly but only in a straight line then it will appear to be a success and one or two or three, but as a whole it will act harmfully and will affect everything negatively. You know how this is gonna work on the economy? Similarly, as one French statesman asked famous writer Balzac if it is true that secret agents and police are holding the state alone. It is true, they hold as much as the rope is hanged, so this law will also affect the Croatian economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61882	Deputy Finance Minister Boris Lalovac called.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61883	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So I must say that I was very surprised by this presentation by fellow Marić, whom I personally highly appreciate, and I believe that she is an expert in the fields of economic science, especially in the areas of fiscal policy, and sometimes in these discussions we agree and support, etc. However, through this debate, I can at least say that it was read that it was no longer the opinion of Mr. Marić or the HDZ Club but rather the opinion of the gentlemen who spoke to the scientist in that particular area and more, in fact, expressed their dissatisfaction with these pre-departmental settlement procedures. So I have to say, I was also pleased when we gave the first time this law was passed. I was personally happy that we had just found together, tried to find some solution to the restructuring and when I talked about this law a year ago I was saying that there are no SDPs and HDZ campaigns but that there are only Croatian companies in which Croatian citizens work and that we try them together, if we find some model because it has proved that bankruptcy has not been given any solution and I can read it to you, in fact through the report I will show you about the bankruptcys that have been going on since 1999, we have them, here are the largest, the companies, how much the workers have been charged, how much the state has charged, how much the biggest creditors in that work have paid for, and you see that they are actually zero, so they're just zero. So over here, just over 400 major bankruptcys, over 5 billion kunas where no one got anything, and we all know that it was a problem, and when we talk about the Duing Business index where it says that we are very bad problems, that we are behind even the countries of Albania, Cyprus and all other countries, that we are the worst at the collection of religious claims through this existing bankruptcy law. It's what Duing business says, it's not this government, it's not this government, it's this Duing business that they can't collect their claims and say that bankers eventually have different rights to charge 30% and that when they get that property over 10 years. This was an attempt to pass by, let's say court means administrative procedures voluntarily they agree on how to restructure the company and how something will actually succeed if anything is paid. You have seen that and precisely because of this law we have in several places jumped into Duing's business in charge of religious claims in a year for not knowing a few places jumped, precisely because of this law where and through discussion with the European Commission we said that and with us are problems, and here are the problems. We took the American model, everybody's calling on the American model, it's... means American restructuring of the economy past the court. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So we didn't make it up, we tried to use the American model, also the French work in this model. Many countries, we've led this to try to take too long to collect the claims because if we're talking if something of the 99th year lasts what it's worth today, it's worth nothing, there's nothing left. No one's gonna do anything. We're trying to say that in 120 days something can and should be restructured. I never like to talk, and you will avoid me talking about HDZ or SDP companies, but here I will tell you some companies that have been restructured, which have been accepted, the Institute of IGH 700 jobs, the plan accepted, billions and 700 million kuna deal, the Dalekvod billion and a half kuna, 760 employees. We want to talk about Optime Telecom, Engineer Engineering, Metro Telecommunications, TankerComerc, Electrometer from Bjelovar, I wouldn't talk about it, and you'll never hear from me that it's HDZ or SDP companies. These are Croatian companies that actually have anyone who is in power trying to help because it is a task if we can give them a solution to some legal elements. We'd be happy, we'd be happy if this part through the courts could be charged. And if in that part of the judiciary is restructured and these results are done in 120 days, no matter who's happier than us, that part of the judiciary works and restructures, solve problems. To solve problems. Whoever's happier than us is that we're actually hiring a management where that part was supposed to be done by someone else. Who's happier than us? So please in that context and watch this law. [[Intruder: Bring the end.]] If ultimately it shows up means he can always unfortunately pull out but then these people, of... Thousands of people would certainly lose their jobs. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61884	Now let's listen to the replicas. First respected Goran Maric.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61885	A fellow Lalovec, of course, is comfortable hearing nice words about himself, I don't doubt it. I also think I'd like to be an associate with you in some form, I wouldn't run away from it, but in the political field we wouldn't agree, on the expert yes. And you've heard, very often, my opinions and the good things you've proposed. But I had to let go of this scream because it requires the situation. When you mention a billion-dollar power line, 868 million kunas seem to me to be looking for three banks. Three financial institutions. And they make a decision about everything. I think there are 986 creditors on the other side. What about them? Did they vote for such a pre-war deal? Did they collect their claims? Has anyone asked them? It's not. That's why it can't be an example for me. How strange that no one in this Croatia, everyone is working both on media and scientific and professionally, I am glad that you also value scientists, so I appreciate them. Because I'm an outside associate at law school and I keep the political economy the same way. But HDZ appreciates the opinion of experts and scientists. Well, we have to appreciate that. And I'm glad, I'm not glad to hear that that's their opinion, that's their more realistic opinion, maybe than ours, maybe mine, because I'm still in this House. And I admit it, but you don't want to admit it. But what about these billions and 800 million kunas, who asked the banks why they were giving loans there? What did they secure when they gave the loans? Where's your money today? [[Intruder: Time.]] That's not what anyone's asking. Here we go, and the state needs to save them again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61886	In line with the reply, Deputy Minister Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61887	Thank you. I said I'd give you the report exhaustively means who it is and how it was voted, yes, others voted in the case of a power line. You know it's a company that had export markets and it's one of our more successful companies not only on the domestic but on the ino market. And that she's the one who's also... economic growth. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And we're sorry that that day hasn't been solved in that case yet. If there's a problem with not sending them to court, why didn't they send them to bankruptcy? They could very simply say a pre-fashion deal is not a quality deal, send the company into bankruptcy. Send a thousand people into bankruptcy, send a company that works in Denmark, Norway, Russia, which is our export company where we need to give them support through HBOR, where we strengthen our construction company. Let the court send her into bankruptcy, let the court send her into bankruptcy. But then I tell you, everyone carries their share of responsibility just as we do here in the Parliament, but so do the other organs, other bodies of the authorities, when they're sent into bankruptcy, what kind of coincidences are for one such company that was excellent, which was a leader in the region and which we think may still be today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61888	The second line is Igor Radjenovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61889	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, I think, Mr. Deputy Minister, it is not correct that you told your colleague Maric that he did not state the position of the HDZ Club and not even his personal position but the position of a group of experts. I don't think that's correct, he did speak for the HDZ Club, he spoke very critically, here and is proud of what's good. I alone do not understand why HDZ hastily turned the board so from one relatively constructive approach with the desire to repair this law in a catastrophic way that existed in the Croatian economy to go towards one absolutely another. In fact, the situation in the economy has clearly arisen over the past five years, and we have a drop of 11% of GDP. And the real question is why the HDZ government ignored the situation and why it did absolutely nothing to change things. Whether it was done on purpose, therefore, by inaction or by some political cowardice for the necessary changes to dear God anyway. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61890	The replica matches Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61891	Thank you. My opening statement was that, and when we passed this law, the unity of something that was a crucial problem of the economy was that I was truly glad in that part that we could find some unity. And that's why I said it was me, I hope this isn't their attitude, it's their personal attitude. Because then to these citizens who, workers who have been rescued both in Vartex and in the Constructor and in all these companies and in the power line and in the IGH then we can clearly tell if this is not a common position that again, unfortunately the Government is lonely in restructuring Croatia's economy. But unfortunately, I don't want to say it. I don't want to say it because I think we can have unity in it. But if they think it's not good then you need all those workers who have remained very clear to tell the government is once again lonely in restructuring the economy and we don't have any help. I initially thanked you because you all supported it but if they changed their attitude then we'll continue to say the government is lonely in restructuring the economy but I didn't want to say it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61892	The last line is the esteemed Ivan Shuker.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61893	Thank you very much. So in your last minutes, you actually mentioned the key thing in your last sentences. But that key thing is like, it's untouchable all these years in Croatia and it's bankruptcy and justice. If that worked then these pre-fashion deals shouldn't have worked at all. However, I expected that you would look back at these three things that have clearly been crystallized and which are problematic in the law, so the problem of small creditors and the problem of related societies and their participation in a pre-departmental settlement. That's the key thing. And this administrative downsizing is not a good thing to say that we've cut our liquidity if we haven't practically paid the lip. It is because the law has made some simply removed from a list. And that... that HDZ supported, HDZ didn't support. The HDZ supported the law when it was adopted by a clear desire to say that we want to participate in all constructive proposals to help the Croatian economy. Then, just a week after the adoption of this law in this House of the High, a parliamentary break took place and the law was changed with 40 articles that had changed many things, and then we expressed certain doubts about certain things. And now that we're talking about this law, we're going to talk openly about these two problems that aren't negligible, especially this story with related societies because I repeat, one of the reasons at the end of 62% of the blocked economic operators and 66% of the blocked funds was owned by companies that didn't have any employees, which is because they were founded to say so. So that's why the OIB was introduced to eliminate those smart-asss so they couldn't roll anyone else.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61894	The replica matches Deputy Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61895	Here's my thanks to my colleague Shuker for this question. When we talk about related societies, that's right, that's where we can talk and through this law doesn't allow it, meaning that the related societies that have mutual claims are being written off and that's where we even emphasized it seems to me Article 72 that they can't even vote, but they can't vote. If we can strengthen that, let's agree to make it stronger. ... No, I don't. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] The claims were written off to each other, and we noticed that, and especially when it was possible that those related companies had tried, one company you know was forged. We, when we learned about that part, launched a breach of legal personality, stopped the pre-departure settlement procedure and referred to the State's Attorney's Office if we discovered such malversions of related societies, to even try to forge them. So that is where we hope that we will also strengthen the provisions, but also very clearly say related societies must write off and cannot influence, especially... part of the vote. When we talk about small businesses, it's very important to say that they now charge 30 percent through this law, not under the law, under the law, 30%. Through the bankruptcy, I showed you that they charge 0, that the state charges 5%, that banks charge 10%. Now through this law is a minimum of 30%, but unfortunately in this ratio, especially when someone has a distinct right certainly to be dominant in that part. And here, through this law, at least 30% of the small, so far, zero has been charged.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61896	On behalf of the SDP Representatives Club, colleague Nadica Jelas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61897	Dear Vice President. Deputy Minister with assistants, respected colleagues and fellow MPs. So the aim of these amendments and the additions that we are discussing today is to further speed up the pre-profit settlement procedures and ensure that as many procedures as possible end successfully, so as to preserve as much property as possible and to keep as many jobs as possible. And that's actually the most important difference compared to the current bankruptcy proceedings that lasted forever and which were maximum failures, i.e. I'll say freely they were only profitable to the bankruptcy managers, so they profited the most in bankruptcy. In this respect, solutions are now being proposed for some problems and some of the abuses observed in the current one-year practice of implementing this law. Provisions on payment deadlines with the provisions of the European Directive on the prevention of late payment in business transactions have also been harmonised. The largest number of proposed amendments and additions are actually already in application by the government's regulation of September, so now they're only actually being translated into legal form. Although the validity of the regulation ends at the end of the year, so with December 31st, I mean there's little time, yet there's this law going in two readings. What is the most important news of this legislative proposal? One of the main news is that the State will be represented by the State's Attorney General in accordance with the provisions of the Law on State Attorneyy. Furthermore, the amendments specify who submits a proposal to launch bankruptcy in a situation where the pre-demand settlement fails. The present formulation was somewhat imprecise and produced different interpretations, so it is now completely clear and unequivocal, and it is found that the proposal to launch the bankruptcy procedure is submitted by the FINA or the settlement council. The amendments further provide for the possibility for the contractual council to release the debtor of the advance payment to cover the costs of the pre-demand procedure, but only where it has received confirmation from the FINA that FINA has seized the necessary funds in the debtor's account. For a small entrepreneur, as we know, it's 5,000 kuna, for a medium 10,000, and for a great 15,000. This provision makes it impossible for the situation to open up a pre-determination without the debtor having the means to cover the costs of the proceedings, as has unfortunately been the case very often in the event of bankruptcy. So the debtor didn't even have that much property to launch the bankruptcy, let alone charge something out of bankruptcy. In such situations bankruptcy proceedings were opened and closed at the same time, the debtor was deleted from the court register, and the collection of creditors, as we heard from the deputy today several times. So the payment of bankruptcy creditors was zero. In this proposal, the deadline for the delivery of the amended financial restructuring plan is reduced from 30 days to 15 days, but at the same time allows the debtor, if the plan is not accepted by the credentials, to offer the amended financial restructuring plan twice more. It is also prescribed that the debtor must also provide a list of all proceedings, therefore both litigation and executive and all others which he leads before courts and public-law bodies against his debtors, in the framework of the pre-departure settlement documentation. The purpose of the delivery of this list is that its creditors have one whole, so one full insight into its financial situation and the obligations that third parties have towards it, the persons who are sorry, who can potentially be judged in his favor and with whom his creditors can count in the process. More specifically, the conduct of the FINA relating to the recording of the base of payment on the burden of the debtor in the event of a temporary measure, i.e. lagging behind with the implementation of the performance. Therefore, during the duration of the interim measure, FINA takes the basis for payment, recorded in the eyewitness but does not execute them. That actually achieves a double benefit. The debtor shall be allowed to deblock accounts and to continue operations, and the creditors shall be protected from possible abuse because they retain their front order in the event that the pre-curricular settlement is not opened. Keep going. The law introduces a very significant novelty for pre-departure employees. In fact, it allows them to submit FINA's executive documents for the collection of their claims even after the opening of the pre-departures, thus making it impossible for the debtor to avoid defaulting to his employees. In fact, labour claims have a priority status in enforcement and do not participate in pre-trials. So, they're not the subject of a pre-fashion settlement. These priority claims are all those claims of current and former workers, debtors which occurred until the date of opening of the pre-demand settlement procedure, whether they were gross wages, severances to the amount prescribed by law, or collective agreements, as well as claims on the basis of compensation suffered by injury to work or professional illness. Since a lot of abuses have been observed in the current application of the law in connection with the application of the requests in this proposal have been added to the provision that only claims resulting from the activities of the debtors can be reported by the creditors. Therefore, it is clear that no claims can be reported, for example, for child support, so alimony, housing claims or any other claims from the so-called ‘. Under quotes from a private sphere. So private debts can't be the subject of a settlement. However, it must be pointed out that the legislator also took account of the protection of the debtor himself, so the draft law incorporated a provision that the FINA would not receive the grounds for payment adopted before the opening of the pre-demand settlement procedure but solely the basis adopted after the opening of the pre-departure procedure. This was arranged to make it impossible for believers to abuse the executive documents they received from the debtors before the opening of the prerogative procedure itself. The most common are the debtors who have received the credentials as payment insurance instruments and who do not want to repay the debtor but are trying to collect them in a certain way. The basic intensity of this law is to establish financial discipline by strictly prescribing payment deadlines, and that is precisely why the law first and foremost sets out a request for timely payment before the state and the government's responsibilities to ensure that the state and state-owned enterprises regularly settle their obligations, and then of course everyone else. In order to meet this objective, the provision set out in this proposal to double the fines from one million kuna to two million kunas for entrepreneurs who do not meet the monetary obligations provided for by law. Such high penalties should act in a democratic way on entrepreneurs, of course, and on the whole public sector to knowingly avoid payments within the legal deadlines. And finally a few sentences on the results of this law that have been reached over the past year of application. The intention of this law is, I said it was already opening up to save as many jobs and as much property as possible. Unlike the negative experience of applying bankruptcy legislation, whose implementation generated only negative effects in the economy from escalating unemployment to reducing the value of the assets. In fact, we all know very well that the property of the debtors was being sold regularly, i.e. better said sold below the real market price. The law also gives far greater security to workers, because the application of this law will treat their claims as a priority. It is very important that the law significantly increases the level of responsibility of the administration and not only the administration but also the supervisory board of the company towards the creditors. In fact, the law provides for a far stronger sanctioning of management members and members of the Supervisory Board if, in a company that has a market perspective, it has fallen into difficulties before the bankruptcy started, they have not tried to carry out the forced settlement procedure. Therefore, the penalties for members of the Board and the Supervisory Board amount to up to two hundred thousand kunas. We know how widespread the assets are, indeed, disintegrated because bankruptcy procedures were not launched in time. So we can conclude that the effects of the application of this law are already visible, far the largest number of bankruptcy proceedings ended with the liquidation of a legal entity, with a very low level of the collection of creditors. We've already heard it's about 5%, and very often in many cases it was a zero charge, and the workers ended up in the labour market. In contrast, more than 22,000 jobs have been preserved in the pre-fashion settlements so far, and I consider that to be absolutely the most valuable achievement in the application of this law. For about 1200 entrepreneurs, creditors have accepted the Financial Restructuring Plan and are expected to enter into agreements before commercial courts. Unfortunately, over 3,000 legal entities have failed in the settlement and will go bankrupt. But it's obviously that sick part of the Croatian economy, that sick tissue to express myself in medical or medical terms, that's the tissue that spread the infection to a healthy part of the economy and paralyzed the cash flow. Finally, 15000 less business entities were blocked than before this law was applied, and the level of outstanding liabilities was reduced by 10 billion kuna. When we say that the level of outstanding liabilities is reduced by 10 billion kuna, and now I am sorry that there is no fellow Shucker here because he regularly says that it is not real but administratively reducing the level of insolvency, it is clear that 10 billion fresh money has not been pumped into the payment system to pay off the debts, but through various models of settlements, therefore from write-offs, compensations and all other models without the presence of almost money, these debts have been deleted. So, they're gone, they're gone, and the debtor's accounts are off-limits and they're allowed to continue their business, and that's what's most important. So, I'd like to face arguments, professions, not politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61898	Young Marelić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61899	Thank you, Vice President. My colleague Jelash, you said the waist was really working... and that the preparations were professionally prepared in this law. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] But I wonder if this is a classic example of the PR of individual scientists who may have received 400 thousand kuna from the HGK. It was hard to get money there, but I think you really need to see if that's what it was. You also said that both management and supervisory committees were responsible. I can only confirm that my company that made a pre-fashion deal for the last 30 years no SDP was in that administration, were on the board when we worked well for four years, they weren't the eight years when the loss of 50 million and a debt of 127 million was created. And I would really like to ask the Agricultural Association of Peljesac who she paid for the campaign and if she paid someone for the campaign in the past term?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61900	It wasn't exactly a replica of exposure. Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61901	I will, however, do what my colleague Marelic said to try to connect somehow to his exposure. So the responsibility of the board and the supervisory board has been significantly strengthened in this law. It wasn't in the bankruptcy legislation. In fact, I personally do not know whether and how many board members and supervisory boards were actually responsible for the fact that they did not start bankruptcy proceedings at the time, and we had provisions in the Law on Commercial Society that a bankruptcy procedure had to be initiated in time, so until the property was decomposed. Unfortunately, there was obviously a lot of those and also from the professions that participated in the fact that bankruptcy proceedings took an extremely long time just to get the time for these assets to grow up, to stay at the end of nothing, and to make believers at the conclusion of bankruptcy, and certainly the employees of the debtors do not get anything from their claims.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61902	Hrvoje Neklic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61903	Comrade Jelash, you have well noticed that this law has saved a lot of jobs and that this law is welcomed by all who are interested in preserving jobs. Now that those who voted in favour of the law, and say they wouldn't vote for him, it's obvious they're not telling the truth. Also, during the 1990s, they may have been under the influence of the rebels when the robbery of centuries was made in Croatia through conversion and privatisation. We also heard some screams here today. So now I wonder where those screams were when the economy and economy in both Slavonia and all of Croatia were destroyed in the 1990s? But here's what I like to mention are specific examples, so I'm going to mention a concrete example of my Gjurdian, where just in the '90s, several thousand jobs in the Wood industrial combination of Gjurdjevac have been lost. But I honestly don't remember hearing any screams from my colleagues today.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61904	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61905	Well, I don't really know if some colleagues are under the influence of rebellion, but I do know that amnesia is actually a mass phenomenon in their ranks. So, I will remind them that they, too, have tried to solve this huge problem of the insolvency of the Croatian economy in the previous term. So, I remind you of the bill on payment deadlines, unfortunately they failed to solve the problem. Now, this government wants to solve this problem, and I think we're on our way.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61906	Branko Hrg, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61907	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Jelash, when I listen to your presentation on behalf of the SDP Club about the Pre-profit settlement Act, it somehow seems to me that you speak with passion and praise that you will solve in this proposal many of the problems that have accumulated in the economy and increase the number of unemployed from day to day. What I've reported for is actually your statement that this way, the issue of state and state-owned companies atone for their obligations to reconcile them will be resolved. Well, I don't know if you have the data, maybe you have that data, so maybe we should all hear it. According to my knowledge, let's just say one example is the reconciliation of HZZO's obligations to pharmacies. I've been told by people that a few months is late and that there are big, very, very big problems, so I don't know if that part of the same country is considered. Not to mention some long things where the state should pay and with due respect for the good of this law I still have to say is the fact that some colleagues and colleagues here have already stated that in this pre-fashion law, it is not all too fair. That still, the little ones suffer the most, that no one cares about them, that they are reported to a pillar of shame and that, after that, in such pretenses, they actually lose, they have problems, they have losses while the state writes off its claims big. Perhaps we should see that little believers do not suffer, that they simply do not stay short and that it is only the state that will write off debts in the desire to preserve jobs if it is really just that desire or there are other desires.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61908	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61909	Comrade Hrg, you know in politics there must be passion, and there must be above all be faith. You have to believe what you're doing. So this law that we're talking about today is called the Financial Business Act and pre-profit settlement. And this first part of the Financial Business Act refers precisely to the setting of payment deadlines. So, with this whole story we want to create an atmosphere, we want to create an environment to succeed in respecting these legal deadlines, so that all starting with a country that we know is the biggest generator of not paying through state companies to all other creditors, so that we can create that we are paying within the legal deadlines of 60 days and 30 days, respectively. And as for these small entrepreneurs who say they are not in an even position to enforce this law, I agree greatly with you. The law is one tissue that can be changed. He's been in use for a year, in use, and we've already seen some of his shortcomings, including abuses. So, I think the government will, by reason of today's debate, try to make all these negatives about the situation and the position of small entrepreneurs in this process to try to correct it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61910	Ivan Drmic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61911	Dear Madam Vice President, dear colleagues. When I listened to your presentation on behalf of the party, I got the impression that in practice I do not know how the law is implemented and how it works that this is an ideal law and even I would have a certain amount of wonder that no one in Switzerland, Germany, England had previously thought to do such an ideal thing because it is obvious that when this law begins to act that bankruptcy will no longer be necessary, that there will be no more bankruptcy, that companies will not pay their debts, and if they are in trouble working further positively, workers will be employed, they will receive their salaries and everything will be ideal in society thanks to this law. We all know that is not the case, and I can say this way that I personally agree with Judge Kolakusic, who argued that this law is against today. It's counter-constitutional for a number of reasons, I don't have time right now, I have one more minute, and I have my whole opinion, or all the reasons why it's against me, but I'm going to tell you two or three reasons. First of all, this law is a simple pro-longing of the inevitable bankruptcy for businesses, and that would not be a problem if it tried to pro-longise it a year, two hoping that there would be growth in the state, that these companies would get away with it. However, these bankruptcys are prolonged to the expense of those companies who are not yet in so much trouble to go into bankruptcy, but I warn you that this is one big problem because within a few months, a chain reaction will occur, and these companies that are mature for bankruptcy will take out those who might have survived this crisis if you hadn't caught them with this law and brought them into such a bad situation. The other thing, I'm warning you of one abuse of this law, it's so-called. a case of related companies where you own ten or fifteen firms that are mutually in debt relations and then in a bankruptcy settlement are outvoted by those real and real creditors who are ultimately in a difficult situation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61912	Replication response, Nadica Jelash.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61913	Col. Drmić, therefore the ultimate goal of this law is to preserve property and to keep jobs in a situation where every place in this country is worth gold, it is really important to keep jobs. And to me, it's actually the biggest problem that hasn't happened before with this law. So, we had bankruptcy legislation that lasted forever, it was infinitely inefficient, property split up and jobs were lost. No one, unfortunately, was responsible for that. So, it's a shame that this law and such steps have not been taken before. But apparently it was someone's responsibility not to do it before.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61914	On behalf of HDSSB representative Drazen Djurvoic's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61915	Here is Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, MPs and MPs. What I have to admit in the very explanation of this proposal, I would like to read it once more as an assessment of the situation. So, Croatia's economy has repeatedly recorded negative trends for the fifth year in a row. In the last four years of the crisis, 11% of real GDP has been lost, with personal consumption of reductions by 35%, investments by 11%. Industrial production volume decreased at the same time 16%, trade turnover to low 20%, construction activity 36%. The unemployment rate increased by 7.4%, the rate of activity dropped by 3.2 and the value of the default payment commitments increased by 130%. So this is the cumulative effect of the recession in which the Republic of Croatia is now five years in a row. This recession and indeed inevitable has affected all segments of Croatian society, all Croatian citizens, the economy, society, human relations and everything that actually makes Croatia and its inhabitants life. What is not here and what would be valuable if it were presented is in some way an explanation of the same trends in half of the government's mandate and this ministry. So let's see where we were at the end of 2011 and whether this policy has brought results in this, in half of its mandate. Perhaps then that cross section, which is certainly correct because the recession is actually one process that takes five years but would be even more fully supported. Because it should not be forgotten, however, that at the end of 2011, before they were, the parliamentary elections were more or less ascending trend and went to zero. Trend of depression. And after the parliamentary elections at the end of 2011 and to this day, we actually have a new deep depression. And you don't have to run from that depression. And what does this depression tell us? So in this period of two years, we are actually faced with the inability and not finding the answer that this depression in the interest of Croatian society, in the interest of the Croatian economy, prevails unfortunately for all citizens of the Republic of Croatia. What we are as a representative club, as a political party when it comes to the economic policy measures this government has taken over the past two years. We supported the introduction of fiscalization and supported the introduction of a pre-fashion settlement when the pre-fashion settlement was made. Faced, not because the pre-price settlement is indeed a happy mechanism for solving economic problems, not because it is just because it is effective and inevitable such a tool that someone has to reach out to between the immeasurable bankruptcy and the total disappearance of large Croatian companies and the great growth of unemployment and the release of some verse. This pre-emptive, entry into this law at all is certainly not easy for those who have proposed it to this House, nor for him who we have voted for these amendments, and they will also leave a trail in years that come and on those who were its bearers and contractors. In these amendments to the laws that have come and in this amendment, it is now trying to actually eliminate the legal consequences that will take place for the holders of certain bankruptcy proceedings because the state here has indeed taken a bite, has cut and gone over a whole series of certain legal norms. And I'm sure you'd say... A number of court proceedings will follow in the years to come. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think it would be a good idea if we could have defined the space at first, a time frame in which this pre-warrant deal would happen at all. That we've defined it as happening until GDP growth starts by 1% or 2% and then it ends. This should not remain a permanent pattern if economic growth occurs. This should disappear, this may be a mechanism that we can use at the time of the recession in which the Croatian state is located. But I don't think you should remain a permanent model. On the other hand, a fundamental argument that we have a problem with an insignificant bankruptcy that is indeed what it is, but I will remind you that we have two years of mandate to amend the entire bankruptcy law. Change it completely. If it was ineffective and bring new bankruptcy laws, new mechanisms. Change the way the trade court works. So there was time and space to take when it came to the problem of bankruptcy it simply completely in a different way. And we didn't notice it happened. What the predecessors mentioned and what was the problem is, in the end, if we were to say political responsibility, it was that something had to be done. And it had to be done because it couldn't be let a whole series of Croatian largest companies just end up in bankruptcy. That would really be irresponsible. We cannot do this, it is not a topic on which I always believe that we should not politicise on the subject of jobs and the fate of people who work in Croatian companies and issues of the biggest Croatian companies. But some examples of some of the pre-fashion proceedings that took place showed that there was, after all, the impression that there was a certain political arbitration and that there were some who seemed more likable, some who seemed less likable and that was not good. On the other hand, I will remind you that it is impossible for both the Croatian public or me as a Croatian representative in the Croatian Parliament to see clear, transparent information about any pre-profit settlement. Do not say that you can see it on the web pages of FINA because go as a Croatian citizen and see what can be seen on the pages of FINA, practically nothing. So now there are suggestions. When it comes to second reading, what are we looking for? We ask that much clearer offices of FINA's obligation be made that there must be transparent information on the progress and solutions of pre-fashion settlements. It can't be a secret. There are hundreds of millions of kunas of taxpayers and Croatian citizens being written off. It cannot be a secret and no one can hide behind a business secret or a service to publish such information charging several hundred kunas as FINA does today. This must be free, publicly available, transparent and fully accessible information to all, not only interested parties precisely because the Croatian State is writing off its claims to private companies. And the second question that is also open, which we also think should be further regulated, is the question of seeking these related societies, because we have seen just from practice that the idea of helping someone, some company that has debts to somehow get out of that vicious circle turns into a whole series of manipulations. Part of the manipulation, the attempt to manipulate you sanctioned these previous changes but as far as related societies are concerned, there is certainly room for additional provisions to make it strictly impossible for someone to close the circle over related societies and simply to disappear from claims by the Croatian state, and everything else to be the way it was. So there are additional mechanisms that make it simply such manipulation impossible and that in the end it doesn't turn out that someone enters a pre-determined settlement just to clear the debt to the state, and that everything else is the same as it was. This must not be the point, and it was not the meaning of a pre-fashion settlement when it was launched, but it must not be allowed to do so, it should still be built in additional mechanisms to simply remove the possibility of such manipulations, and we can see that they are present. We welcome these amendments to the present means the possibility of further extending the deadlines, we welcome the change to make it impossible for believers to subsequently introduce claims that they did not want to enter into a pre-fashion settlement but would then later, he says, when the pre-departure settlement is over then they would settle. I mean, it's okay. The fact is, this isn't ideal, this isn't perfect. Whether it's constitutional, which is why I think there are competent courts who can determine it and I'm not really a person who should plead it out at all, but whoever thinks there isn't a Constitutional Court, so let's ask for an explanation from the Constitutional Court. But in any case, from the beginning one of these models was really necessary, but I say one more time, but it must not be political arbitration that is present and needed to a certain extent either become a model where differences in approaches are made or where we have examples of very unequal solutions. And also in order to avoid this should simply publicly publish all the information about it and it should have been done from the beginning, and not that none of us can see what was the solution to any pre-fashion settlement, who were the believers, as voted, as decided. Why, what's a secret here? Especially where the money of Croatian citizens through unpaid taxes and state-forgiving. Well, it can't be hidden from the public. So, I think this fina needs to be asked to handle it anyway. So in addition to these remarks until the second reading, I suggest that these additions and amendments to the law be actually complemented, and in total, not wanting to, really not wanting to politicise this topic in any way, we cannot close our eyes to the Croatian reality. It's not just about a pre-fashion deal, it's about a whole series of other things in this society. We can close our eyes, we can pretend that there is no such thing and say that we are an ideal society in our social relations and in the functioning of the judiciary and in the functioning of the economy, but that really is not the case. Also, the Ministry of Finance and through these only two things that I would personally assess positively, therefore fiscalisation and pre-determined settlements, does something that the other resolution ministry that should actually be in charge of economic growth does not do. So the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Trade and the Ministry of Regional Development. Where is their responsibility in all this? And finally, when it comes to parafiscal intrusions which this government likes to boast about how some have been reduced, some have been abolished, this is relatively small amounts, I also propose one proposal to reduce parafiscal burdens, which is to reduce all the chamber contributions by 50% but all the chambers in the Republic of Croatia, all the chambers that exist. In one act, they should only be listed, so that they can be legally resolved. It is the release of at least billions of kuna to Croatian citizens through the reduction of the direct parafiscal burden on citizens as a recession measure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61916	I guess an anti-recession colleague. Col. Srdjan Gjurkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61917	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear colleague, I'll be happy to tell you that as far as the FINA report is concerned, you have absolutely everything, and the reprogrammes, and as far as the state is concerned, and as far as all the religious participants are concerned. Therefore, what no one can respect for this government, which is public and transparency, and especially on such sensitive issues as training, saving and training companies, those companies that have a chance, and that chance should be recognised primarily by creditors including the state. Therefore, the taxpayers of all the exemptions that possibly exist, and they exist in pre-departure deals, can absolutely see in which way even the believers are involved. And on the other hand, I agree fully with you, you guessed essentially at the core, I'm not going to say you guessed but you have our point of view, and I think that this is an effective tool, and I'm stressing once again the government mechanism for those companies that we can train, give them a chance, and in particular ensure the survival of jobs because bankruptcy has obviously shown that they are not a process that can ensure job rescue, and of course also ensure the search of the credentials.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61918	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61919	So I think about this first part, so I think on the pages of FINA I'm not informational illiterate, but I couldn't see that information you're talking about, I couldn't find it, but there's some information that you need to subscribe to and pay to be available to you on the website of FINA, and I don't think it's in the interest of transparency of this process. And as for this other one, I agree. So this is a simple topic, a topic I really wouldn't want to politicize, because it doesn't need to be politicized. Everyone has a part of their obligations and responsibilities to do. However, what was missing and clear from the outset was that throughout the whole series of amendments to the articles, the practice would thus be changed. But I'm saying, I think maybe from the beginning this whole package should have actually been defined as one recession model that when the state comes out of recession shouldn't be left alive.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61920	Goran Maric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61921	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. A colleague of Đurovic, you mentioned workers of the pre-determined debtor and indifference. Individence has not been reduced, but if one sector is carefully analysed and not analysed, which is the distribution sector, then it is evident that in a seemingly reduced indifference there. And what it's about. By law, there is a obligation to pay certain deadlines. Those deadlines don't apply. They cross the multiple deadlines, and then claims arrived distributors and traders force suppliers to convert into commodity-money loans. How many such converted claims have been made into commodity loans, even the Ministry of Finance doesn't know, but it should be examined. Because it must not go into commodity-money loans and thus be forced to force suppliers into an unfavourable position, into an unequal position. They're just forced to do something like that. If the late Benedict... He saw today's situation in the distribution sector in Croatia would also be uncomfortable in his grave. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] He wrote about trade and merchants, he wrote about the virtues of merchants, and nothing fits today's reality. And this particular sector is the brakes of the Croatian economy. It's easier to get through your foreign, established company with one employee to import other people's goods and sell it here than to take it from a domestic producer, blackmail it to edit the shelves, blackmail it with a 180-day payment deadline and disable it with big margins and rebates to sell domestic production. Thus, the Croatian economy will never move forward, which is ignoring a normative economy that must include explicit and valuable systems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61922	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61923	We agree. So, what you're saying about it is we totally agree. When it comes to reducing liquidity, so I don't know if there's any illusions about that debt that's, in fact, on paper that that money's long gone. So that money's long gone. So, physically, it can't actually be reduced. We can only find a model of how we're really going to write what's not really written that's gone and then cross that off. The second thing is that there is no, there is no because those who managed to get away with it in certain ways moved it from the company's substrates, brought it abroad, brought it to their bank accounts, brought it out to what kind of fictitious companies, brought it to the Virgin Islands. However, this premarital settlement can no longer be settled. There are competent authorities, state attorneys, BOKE and all other bodies that should actually be more persecuted and who turned this substrate of the Croatian economy into money and then took it away, and we cannot resolve this pre-fashion settlement. We just have to know how to look for ways to actually legitimately determine that what it says is that we just put it on zero and find that it's gone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61924	Hrvoje Neklic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61925	Yes, colleague Djurovic. Here's twice as much as you mentioned. So no one escapes from repression like no one denies that the situation is difficult. However, we must stress the importance of all those measures that this government is taking to trigger the economy and to preserve jobs. I'll just mention some. Therefore, reduction of contributions, taxes on reinvested profits, elimination of parafiscal burdens. Also reducing VAT to catering services. All right, you can say that now it's raised to 13, but it's still 12% less than it was. Nothing goes overnight, but the result will come. With continued work for the economy, the result must surely come. And it's good that you support this government's intention to help the economy and help preserve jobs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61926	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61927	Well, as I was saying, fiscalization, pre-warrant settlement, yes, this other thing, nothing at all. That reduction in the contributions you mention has proved catastrophic because it was done without any plan to settle the debt that will arise in health care. So the contribution can be reduced to 3%, and then the loans to settle the dubiosis I think. What was the point? I don't know what the point of that reduction was. We dispersed our employers, and then through the withdrawal of the loan, we burdened the population and the state budget. So it was a measure that completely made no sense. So something that seems to have to have some projection of what the plan is and how it's actually going to come down together in some real framework. So the total score is so for me, it's a coma.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61928	Ivan Drmic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61929	You're telling your colleague Đurovic that this law takes over part of the role of the bankruptcy law. Here I'd tell you that in the last 20 years, there's been some kind of big fear of bauki so-called. The bauka of bankruptcy. So there was a so-called after the war here. Rehabilitation when the state is resuscitating certain companies. At first it was just a budget to take out the money and cover the losses. After that, someone said we can't go to cover those losses, but so the state enters into the ownership of companies that are in crisis. In the end, it was seen that such companies never came to the green branch, were not protected from their jobs, and in general, in large agonys, these companies failed, and workers did not receive salaries for months or even years. There's no more recovery today, but we've got a pre-war deal. Why is bankruptcy such a bogeyman with us? I would agree with a colleague from the SDP who said bankruptcy is simply used to break up company assets and that is the fact that, so that everyone remains unhappy by the creditors, by the debtors, by the workers, no one is satisfied except those mechanics who take the property of the company for cheap money. I'll tell you what you need to do. You should prescribe bankruptcy laws if you have already entered the EU from Germany, England and from Western countries where you can come to the workers and I have heard that your company was bankrupt and that it answers you do not know. Because that's where the work doesn't stop, the owner changes, it gets rid of the paper so the worker doesn't interrupt his work and certainly doesn't get paid. The only thing that happens in our country is that for a year or two a worker doesn't get paid in a company without a bankruptcy being launched. It's the laws you're making, first of all the bankruptcy law, the Penal Code. So, the entire legislation of this country that allows some sort of seemingly social policy to be conducted, and in the end, when you draw the line, you'll see that you're doing damage to entrepreneurs and especially workers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61930	Thank you very much. Drazen Djurovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61931	Thank you. My colleague, I hope when you said you were talking to the SDPs and not to me. ... Well, it's easier for me right now. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I agree with you, so what I said in the debate, in 2 years if you were unhappy with the bankruptcy law and we all know that it is not good and that bankruptcy has not worked for 2 years has really been enough time for the bankruptcy law to completely change and to pass a new bankruptcy law and to be done if new courts and preparations are needed. So it's a space that nobody really defended this government from making. Because this can't be the only model. And what you said about payouts, we see that there's still a whole series of companies that don't pay regular workers. It's a really terrible situation, especially when we know that the low salaries of workers working in production, and even worse, when it comes to a pre-fashion deal for the state to enter into a pre-fashion settlement, that the state forgives her claims, that the state comes out of a pre-fashion deal and continues to do business in the same way. That workers receive every other salary. I mean, it's desperate alive. And that's $2,500 in the textile industry. For such pre-fashion deals, it might have been better if they hadn't been. But in the real situation in which Croatia is today, and the situation is all of us know what it is, it is illusory to expect that we can let things go to the courts and sit with our hands crossed. So, the bankruptcy itself, the issue of bankruptcy managers, proceedings and jurisdiction of commercial courts, it was all possible for the state to solve the new bankruptcy law, have a parliamentary majority, and there is no problem there. And why aren't they doing that? I really don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61932	Igor Radjenović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61933	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here is Mr. Djurovic, after unanimous support of this law, so in his first reading, the first draft of the October 2012 law when 109 MPs voted in favour, none against and no abstention is pleased and commended that the HDSB's Club of Representatives remained in that affirmative position and remained constructive on the proposal to correct this law as opposed to the HDZ club which apparently chose a destructive path. And I'm glad that you've suggested some solutions that Mr. Lalovec said, therefore, about the need for another reading, obviously about the biggest problem of this law that has certainly proved itself in practice around this... legal personality and justice for the believers. I say, I commend a constructive approach unlike some other colleagues. I think you've said well that this law is not ideal and it's not perfect, but every time it's done, it's getting better. This is already four iterations if I'm not wrong with that law and like in that movie, do you remember... Every day, in every respect, we progress more and more. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] I think that's what we do with this law. In any case, any new solution is better than the solution that used to be. So, with inefficient and slow bankruptcy, with the barren solutions that I say lasted very often for more than 1 decade now and the percentage of the charge is on a one-digit figure which is unfortunately Croatia's practice. Some of the contributions mentioned are also mentioned, I would perhaps see the public and remind us all that the bankruptcy of NASA's largest shopping house of the pride of trade has not yet been completed and perhaps since you come from Slavonia, maybe the City Bank of Osijek also shows how bad and ineffective the system has been. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61934	Replication response, Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61935	Thank you very much. You put me in HDZ when you were talking, but well, the llingu laser, I think it was you. It doesn't matter. Everything's fine. In any case, when the example of bankruptcy you mentioned, so we've been working in bankruptcy for years, we have an almost truly successful example of the singer who came out of bankruptcy but came out successfully why? and because it trades, therefore, as a company of course if it has no production or special property of course that it was in the interest of the creditors to keep a brand company, it is quite different from some production companies of which none of them usually manages to go into bankruptcy once it enters it. That's why we've been living in bankruptcy for so many years, and everyone's happy except for the interest of Croatia's countries that have remained completely unclear. In any case, however, we hold that there are still some things that this law needs to be changed, further corrected, and tried if it is possible to reduce this role of political arbitration in making decisions in a pre-fashion settlement. There would certainly be still possible to install some mechanisms that exactly the minister and his deputy or closest circle of associates would not be the only one who actually sets up fate de facto before bankruptcy proceedings, de jure being made by the council but de facto by them and certainly could be a little bit more worked out to make it so.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61936	Nadica Jelish, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61937	Dear fellow Đurovic, you were saying that the pre-departure settlement procedure is non-transparent, so you can actually see nothing from FINA. I can't believe how you can talk about it like that, so the FINE app really shows everything. So, you see the complete course of the procedure, you see every detail and every step of the procedure, you see every paper, every document is written in the corresponding section. So the only thing you can't see in the whole process is the amount of settlement and I don't think it would be acceptable or appropriate. In one word, the pre-price settlement procedure is completely transparent. And as for the measures taken by the current government to help the economy and to encourage economic growth, which you say that you as a doctor know that there is one condition that is worse than whom, there is death. So the question is, what if this government hadn't taken those measures, then, if it hadn't helped the economy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61938	Replication response, Dražan Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61939	The Croatian state can't die, it was born 23 years ago so there's no such thing as bankruptcy, bankruptcy or anything like that. I mean, it's a coma in every respect that Croatian citizens feel the recession has exhausted Croatian society. These additional world-wide confrontations, which this government has triggered, have, at this time, actually significantly sharpened relations between Croatian citizens and when you refer to this severe crisis and depression in which Croatian society, mistrust in its institutions, in the Croatian government, in the Croatian Parliament, in Croatian courts and in the president of the state, you get one winning combination of comas at the moment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61940	And Frano Matušić replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61941	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleague Đurović, I agree with you that in fact it is completely untransparently all related to the pre-demand settlement and even from these replicas that preceded it is very clear that what is most important in these pre-prime settlements, these are amounts, these are concrete amounts. How many people's debts have been paid off? State, religious, etc.? how many states were involved in this. And it should actually stand on the Ministry of Finance's pages because the Ministry of Finance is in a way directly related to this Act on Pre-demand settlement and should stand on the Ministry's pages of how many debts the economy, which it has written off to, because of course it is an administrative reduction in liquidity that will ultimately generate even greater indifference, because the businessmen realized that they should behave in order to achieve even greater indifference and that there will be nothing to do with it, that their debts will be written off in the pre-demand settlement. So I absolutely agree with you, that there is no transparency. What's most important is you don't see it coming, and you need to see it. Second of all, you've been talking about actions in front of courts related to bankruptcy, etc. More energy had to be invested in making these procedures faster, today much larger assets are blocked in courts. According to experts 58-59 billion kuna is blocked in courts in various processes, let's work it out, let's improve, let's give the courts a chance to solve it faster, there's the essence of the problem, let's speed up these procedures, solve that people have legal certainty because what happens today is legal uncertainty and we see where it leads us, we sink, and this year we'll end up in a minus. It's all clear.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61942	The reply to the replica Drazen Djurovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61943	Yes, it was if he remembered in early 2012, there was an announcement by the Deputy Prime Minister that surgical cuts would remove all non-crotic tissue from the Croatian economy. It's one approach, and it's really possible to do that. Another approach is to believe that this tissue did not die but to try to revive it that it was so little exchemized that you tried to revive it with various methods. Something's gonna work, something's not gonna work. You'll do some increation, a little patching, and some of that'll stay. To be honest with the situation in which Croatia was located today would not be a person who would be for surgical cuts because surgical cuts at the moment mean shutting down so practically all Croatian production. What of Croatian production today is sufficiently vital, solid and stable, competitive, priced cheap, quality good enough to hold an international race? And how many Croatian citizens would at this time that we would at any cost be left with everything that can't really be left, how much would that Croatian economy have left in the first place? And where would our people work? I mean, that's the reality of this situation that we're in. And we don't have to stare in front of him. That's my opinion on it. Maybe some other time, that the labour market is much more open, that economic growth, that the state is in a different state then this law shouldn't. So let's play those five, ten biggest companies some people go to work somewhere else in some pro-pulsive small and medium-sized economy but that's not there. At least not at this point. And that's why I'm saying that this law may need to be limited to a recession period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61944	On behalf of the HNS Representatives' Club, Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61945	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So, on behalf of the HNS Club, which supports these amendments and additions to the Pre-bank settlement and financial transaction Act, I would also like to take into account these discussions that were only recapitalised so far when we adopted this Act on Pre-demand settlement and financial transactions in which the Croatian economy was in a state and which was a bankruptcy status. So if taken somewhere around a thousand companies with significant amounts, values, bankruptcy claims, then the analysis showed that some 90 bankruptcys lasted more than 10 years or 166 more bankruptcys than 5, 300 longer than 3 etc, etc., etc. So an absolute condition that is not only surgically not only cannot be solved through bankruptcy but also a state that indicates that it is neither unpopulative but absolutely non-functional. And the fact itself, the collection of 3 to 5% of the creditors in the bankruptcy mass suggests that there, not that none of them are protected but that none of these can benefit any of them and that essentially these bankruptcys have been taking on not only large, not just banks, but also what is key to both small and medium enterprises. And now that I'm up to those bankruptcys, the condition we had last year, which was 73,000 blocked business entities by a company of 52% legal entities. We had up to 360 days of 16 thousand legal entities in the blockade and 56 thousand legal entities over 360 days in the blockade with 36 billion blocked funds. So that's the starting point of the Pre-departure settlement and financial transaction Act. And not to go into those discussions about how someone can be blocked for 360 days and more, etc., it's quite clear that it's a system failure and including the laws that existed at the time. Then we have the key thing why this law should have been passed to be effective, to start solving immediately, not by amending the law on bankruptcy. We've changed the law on bankruptcy and we've accelerated procedures and we've reduced and we've accelerated certain responsibilities and we've given greater responsibilities but we've shortened certain procedures for bankruptcy managers. But when you have a situation in 38 thousand 676 blocked companies 360 and more days working 41 thousand workers. And in the craftsman, 34 thousand blocked craftsmen worked 25,000 workers. Then you don't have time, this government didn't have time, and that's what you mostly voted in support of now changing the laws on bankruptcy trying to solve what burns in the day. Because it's been a year and more days of blockades, and they don't receive 41 thousand and more workers' salaries, and they're also uplinking 25 thousand workers. And these are the key data that made this law necessary, important and recognized and which, some say, did not bring results but I must admit that politically absolutely everyone has the right to discuss it. However, data from exactly the FINA, which is often mentioned this way, they say. So on 29.11.2013, the declared liabilities of less than 10 million kuna were 4 billion 675 thousand kuna. Number of items 5 grand, number of employees 13 thousand 423. Reported liabilities exceeding 10 million kuna, 46 billion and 178 thousand. Number of employees 30 thousand 376 and number of cases 588. It was resolved thanks to this law and amendments and regulations 34 billion 972 000 and some reported liabilities that employ 29 thousand 199 employees and 4 000 562 items. There are still 15 billion reported commitments, 881 thousand with 14000 and 600 employees. So 81.17% of all those who entered the pre-fashion settlement have been settled. Is there a pre-fashion deal, a restructuring from the credentials, from a commercial court? One part is, one part isn't. But of course, by respecting all the things that should be respected in the procedure, which is that the restructuring plan must be given by who, who is the owner, and those who are believers, divided into those three groups precisely to separate both the state and the large bank and that the small have the right to vote, to protect their interests. At the time when everyone accepts it and when a commercial court registers it or changes ownership, you cannot work with all possible settlements without a commercial court and consent of the owner, it is a protection of the rights of the owner, we come to options for solving, insurance to companies of the future, a chance recognised by creditors, employees to continue to work on the market, so that they can then create and be part of economic development. Therefore, pre-departure settlements are a chance for companies and employees to be part of economic development, normal functioning with cleared or most cleared or prolonged by certain obligations. And what's also important, most owners... management in all companies are no longer you and they don't have the opportunity to bring both the company and the employees and the creditors as persons who were either in management or owned under the circumstances that they've brought up until then. So the very fact why this law was and why most of you supported it, the very figures that pointed to the need for urgent or surgical response with a law that can immediately implement its actions indicate that this and the amendments to the law are necessary and that the law itself is completely unquestionable. Of course, when the law was passed, I believe that you remember that it was also said by the motions of the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Ministry of Finance that since this law is a new law, since the law that has really entered into a space that has not been similarly covered, it is possible that it will experience certain changes and changes depending on the situation, on the need, of that vitality that this law enters in an attempt to save jobs and companies. And this also happens with these changes and additions that are essentially an integral part of something that indicates that it was necessary or what is necessary to make it more efficient, more efficient to work exclusively in the attempt, in the desire and intent and obviously to realize a part of the company to open up space and the chance to further grow and develop and save those jobs that really have the opportunity to create further value and pay their commitments and be part of the growth and development of the economy of the Republic of Croatia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61946	Thank you very much. Comrade Dujomir Marasović, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61947	Your Honor, Madam President. My colleague Gjurkovic, I didn't know I'd be in line this soon, so I apologize. You're a colleague of Gjurkovic, you said you wanted to recapitulate the state of the economy when you came to power, and now honey and milk are running, you want to say a little bit why honey and milk are running now because you're doing so well, and... a terrible bad thing, so I'm going to help you out a little bit. Repetio et mother studiorum, so when the government took over the previous government left you GDP about 0%, so in two quarters the second and third was plus, then the third and fourth minus, means 0%, and now you have the GDP as much, you tell the Croatian people and the Croatian public. It shames me and says it, and we'll be lower by the end of the year than we are now. Write home, it's gone, it's gone. Number two, unemployed... if that's what you want but I don't think you're telling me, you left 315 000, you have now, or we now have 355,000. Number three, VAT left at 23%, now the people are paying for the hack 25% and Linic says they will raise to 30%. I don't know who stopped him. Number four, electricity, gas, utility, everything was lower, went to heaven by government decision, you didn't ask anyone. Number five, your exports are down. Number six, your public debt has grown. Number seven, the deficit of the state, if we're going to conclude with this point because we're pointing out up so I don't want the president to interrupt me, so I don't turn out uncultured, he was somewhere around 12-12.5 billion, maybe by 13. It's 17.5 for you now. And you know why, because you've hired a state administration, and you've invented 500 new agencies, and you're not allowed to hire a nurse, you don't give a teacher a salary for what you legally have to give. How can you not be ashamed to argue like this?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61948	Comrade Marasovic, you said you were running out of time. Thank you. Srdjan Gjurkovic, reply to the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61949	My dear colleague, so that you may, of course, discuss this government, then tell me that I said something I didn't say. So like this, I didn't say that honey and milk flow at all, and you opened up your discussion based on it. So it's not honey and milk at all, but it's a complex economic situation and economic situation in the country, and what it shows is that next year's trends could have come out of recession. The recapitulation was the recapitulation prior to this Act on Pre-accession settlement and financial transactions which in itself indicate how well the situation of the economy was inherited and how important it was to pass this law in order to ensure that the economy could survive and only then go into development. When we're talking about zero percent of what you had in 2011, then I'm going to tell you one more time that those zeros are a good part of the realization of certain recapitalisations, the conversion of equity in the banking and telecommunications sectors into a part that's being registered as a gross product, otherwise you'd be below 1%. And as for the deficits according to the current calculation that we have your deficit in 2011 amounted to 7.8% of gross products, i.e. 25 billion kuna. So these 16 are less than 9 compared to what you left us.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61950	We're moving on to an individual debate. Drazen Pandek, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61951	Here's my thanks to the President of the Parliament. Dear Deputy Minister, dear colleagues and colleagues. I would also like to make it clear that this law has received significant positive effects when it comes to reducing liquidity and helping firms that are stuck in problems and have sound grounds to recover, avoid bankruptcy and continue to operate after the pre-departure settlement procedure has been completed. I'd like to remind you that before this law is passed, it's so-called. the bankruptcy with the reconstruction or exit of bankruptcy companies, the retention of employees and the continuation of business was a rare, rare exception and no rule at all. I think the situation here has improved significantly. Of course, in practice we also face problems in application. But I think we should definitely remember that saying that we can't make an omelet without somehow breaking our balls. This law was a necessity, it was made in the best faith to help solve a burning, burning problem of indifference. Let me just remind you of history. The problem was explosively escalated in 1999 to be on track to resolve the government's mandate from 2000 to 2003. But here's to burst again like a fire over every measure since 2008 beyond the most... the consequence of the global financial crisis. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So, when is there a fire that we do? It's got to go off. It may also happen to the neighbor to wet the ceiling, but what is the solution to letting the whole house burn down? Since it is a completely new instrument, it is clear that problems have arisen in its application, many of the problems few people or perhaps no one could have predicted at that time. And the opposition side of the assembly was then, as I recall, supported this law and although it also has experts who I sincerely appreciate have failed to predict some of the problems that arise in practice under this law. And this amendment and addition proposal, I would say, is aimed at improving existing solutions. And now here in the debate particularly highlighted the problem of related companies that should certainly try to solve new normative solutions, but also better to prevent abuses. The biggest problem I'm aware of is that it's not a normative nature, but that many creditors report false claims or claims of related societies that shouldn't be reported. But that is then the problem of the functioning of the rule of law and the repressive bodies, not to the greatest extent legislative. When we talk about improving existing solutions, I, too, applied to this debate in the first place to engage in the drive to improve the existing solutions, so I would like to raise my doubts, or a proposal to improve the current article 55 which speaks of the rights of executive creditors. That article stipulates that the executive believer is a person who, on the basis of his right, can therefore prove that an object does not belong to the property of the debtor and is not a believer in the pre-departure settlement procedure. I would just point out that the last part of the sentence that can be interpreted as being an executive believer cannot be an ordinary believer in this procedure. Now let's imagine two situations. In one situation, for example, the believer is a bank that lends a loan to a car and reports its claim in a pre-demand procedure and the settlement board will recognise such a demand from the bank. However, if, for example, the Leasing Society has a claim on the basis of the Leasing Treaty relating to unsettled wars and is registered as an executive believer in the matter of the Leasing Council according to the practice I have learned so far, it will not recognise the demand of the Leasing Society which is also secured by executive correction, but will classify the Leasing Society as executives without including its demand that it has previously reached after these unpaid wars of the total declared trade. In view of the provision of this Article 55 which is prescribed in such a way that the executive believer is not a believer in the pre-determined settlement procedure. Such an interpretation indeed seems to me that the article in question puts easing, for example, in a specific case, in which I have led the Leasing Society into a more unfavourable position than the Bank. In this hypothetical case, the Bank's search would be recognised, and as such it could enter into the pre-demand settlement procedure, and the demand here would not have been a result. The interpretation of this article could be concluded that the applicant’s intention was to make the executive, therefore the credentials are not able to seek a claim for a certain executive right both in the capacity of the Executive Prophet and for that request to be reported as their claim in the pre-determination procedure. And that interpretation was correct in my opinion, but in practice it appeared, such a provision is used to deprive executives of the right to apply their other claims in the pre-fashion proceedings, which are therefore different from the executive law. It seems to me, therefore, that in view of this article 55, it would be good to amend the existing provision in order to add another sentence, for example, that would resolve doubt. For example, it is prescribed that the provision of Article 55 does not affect the right of executive creditors in respect of their claims made on the basis of which an ex ante right cannot be exercised. In the sense that somewhere in practice this article can indeed be interpreted, it seems to me that the consequences of the inequality of all before the law can be affected. As a consequence, certain economic operators could also cause major, large damages, which could, for example, be sought in certain proceedings for damages. Finally, I would like to point out that this amendment and supplementation is a good step in improving existing solutions and should certainly be supported, and I hope that the proposals here presented in the debate will also serve to further improve. This law, I would repeat, is a brand-new tool. It has certainly proved that its adoption has been fully justified but clear, as with any new tool, there is therefore room for improvement that needs to be considered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61952	Thank you very much. The final word of Deputy Minister Boris Lalovac. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61953	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the MPs for today's debate. I must immediately admit that I expected much more constructively, according to certain articles, which can be improved rather than a complete twist in this pre-fashion procedure. But I hope that by the second reading, we will also get some concrete measures as to how we can further strengthen the legal security of this law and protect the credentials. Mostly here when we talked about related companies where we said that even under this law they were going to write off. It seems to me that article 72 does not allow them to vote. But if that part can still be clarified and improved legally, etc. It is certainly welcome in that part, and where those who are trying to use a pre-fashion settlement through that part of the related companies and these reported claims if we can protect them even more, it is certainly welcome. What's important is to say that when we talk about the owners and directors of these companies because it says here that a criminal liability should be launched, you know 74 thousand blocked companies were and I said if there were 20 thousand kunas over a billion kuna it was supposed to be paid because I don't know about 74 thousand companies it's necessary to raise those criminal responsibilities? We have decided on such a model that together the creditors are trying to agree whether to give through confirm this financial plan and give further legitimacy to the existing owner because, as far as we know from these larger procedures, a significant ownership structure has changed in many companies that have passed the pre-accession settlement, and in that part of the credentials can influence whether they accept this plan and seek strategic partners, asking to change owners because they no longer trust those owners who brought these companies into such problems. What we can say, what we can do from the point of view of the Ministry of Finance and the Tax Administration, that for such owners and directors we can run what we often say in this article in 63, to see if there is a certain disproportionateness of property and whether these are the benefits. But that's not just the whole time we're not talking about the IRS. That's what the believers can do. According to the Company Act, it can be initiated by any believer. Unfortunately, it didn't move, and we don't have any practice punishing those who have done such circular fraud and who have stayed. And according to the Company Act, that's allowed. However, we do not have that part in practice. There were also talks on small suppliers and therefore this law was defined by three groups of suppliers, three voting groups, so that not exactly these dominantly dominated financial institutions. They are in one group, the country in the second group and in the third group remained small suppliers. What's guaranteed by this law is that they're minimal, I'm talking about 30% will be able to charge, and that under the existing bankruptcy law, I've stated the data didn't charge anything. What's the problem now because these are debts, so they've been blockades for over a year, these are blockades 4, 5 you have companies blocked and 10, 15 years. And that's the problem now that you're opening up that let's say a pre-fashion deal, or you're finally looking at what can be charged. It can hardly be charged because exactly when problems arise, the company has to open up a very fast pre-fitting settlement procedure and try to collect the part in that element. So here I hope that until the second reading of this ambiguity, we will especially try to strengthen them, but I must honestly say after today's debate that the government has once again remained alone in solving the problem of workers. But this is also a very clear message in this part of the message to all workers who stayed in their jobs and workers of Vartex and workers of Dalekvod, workers and industry, IGH workers that it was the merit of this government that they tried to save their jobs in these ways. And in this House, it has actually been clearly confirmed, and all those who are against it have made themselves clear today in this House of Commons. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61954	Thank you. Replica, Branko Hrg.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61955	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, Mr. Deputy Minister, the government has a job to do that part that you said was left alone so no one can come and help her solve things where she's operationally responsible for creating an economically better climate and creating conditions for opening, not closing jobs. Any such procedure will surely be supported by every citizen and every representative. But I volunteered for this part of protecting small creditors of craftsmen, small entrepreneurs, agricultural producers, domestic producers. I'm afraid that this ratio that you're saying as a positive that 30% will be able to charge will not be charged because it will be somewhere on the tail of those who seek and even charge those 30% in principle endangers their survival. If it were the other way around, it would be at least 70% of what they could charge to get into some normal pay order to be you. Because that's definitely how we keep our domestic production, keep the small ones safe. These little ones are definitely destroyed in this way, and in keeping some number of jobs, we're going to destroy a whole series of people we don't even think exist right now. And that's why I think it would be good in a purely good sense and faith to think about simply having these small producers, domestic producers at the very least, make producers directly to protect themselves and really be in a more favourable position in this part than some of them who are resellers and do things that way. The manufacturer always gets the most hurt, he at least collects his product. He's the last one, he's the one who makes the least money, who barely survives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61956	Replication response, Boris Lalovec.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61957	Thank you, dear colleague. Well, yes, we were the same when we discussed this law and our intensity was to protect even more small, but from the real cases when we were just saying that we can't put certain procedures where we're going to affect these larger creditors, especially banks, financial institutions that have certain hostage rights because by withdrawing their hostage rights you especially know how small the values of real estate are today, that the claims are, in that it's a big problem that the claims are much greater than the value of that hostage right that he, when he pulls away the entire balance sheet, he puts down. We've been trying to do this, if it's legally found that we can protect small believers I tell you it's welcome and if the right profession and those today who actually represented, if they support us in that part of how to protect you, it's welcome. We've been told so far that it's impossible to put the little ones in front of the big ones. Unfortunately, if you can legally, it is certainly welcome to save those jobs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61958	Nancy Tyrelli.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61959	Thank you. Dear Deputy, here you have said that the government has been left alone and that today you have no support regarding this law on resolving the economic crisis. I think you heard today during the debate what is wrong with this law. When a year ago a consensus was reached and we all voted for this law to be passed, we voted for good intentions and in good faith that we should all really do something together. It's been a year since the law was applied. Here we are changing it for the third time, and all the debates you've heard today have been to warn of the mistakes that have taken place in these years. And the biggest mistakes are exactly that, the unequal treatment of small and large, with due respect for keeping more jobs, but we should also consider those small craftsmen who also employ a lot of people, a lot of workers whose obligations are less than the large and shorter ones, because they are better and more fulfilling their obligations. So, and that means the way that you give the championship to more business entities that have fewer debts and who have lots of employees to close that cycle as soon as possible and that every believer in that cycle would get their payment as soon as possible and what we warn about is an extremely large problem, which are related businesses, what the owners of these related companies are doing and the way that they take advantage of this law and ultimately turns out that thanks to the law on pre-banking deals, they are making an even greater profit and that no one has it under control.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61960	The answer to Boris Lalovec's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61961	Thank you very much. Well, no, I thank your club and the HDSSB club, but in that part, you continued to support this part and pointed only to certain problems. Yeah, the problem is small, but you know that even the kid can get in, especially in that part, we know that there's a problem, that they can't charge, we told them the rest is tax-recognized expenditure. We've also been through this process of pre-determination, they're even going into less procedures, much faster procedures, they only go if it's a debt to the tax administration, very fast procedures we go that we don't have to have these audit reports etc., and if they're affected by the fact that they have to suffer because they've written off because of the big ones and we're giving them a chance if they report to... in that part to help them. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] So that's what the government could legally help the small one. So when they come in, they get signed up, especially towards the state, etc. And I say again if we can determine by modeling that part, but I say that lawyers say that we can't because of the equality of all the believers regardless, here's thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61962	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61963	Final draft law amending and supplementing the law on financial operations and pre-profit settlement, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 542. The Government of the Republic of Croatia has withdrawn its proposal to adopt that law by an urgent procedure and a debate has been held in the first reading. I am voting on the following conclusion: 1. The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Business Act and pre-chapter settlement is hereby adopted. And 2. Any objections, proposals and opinions will be addressed to the applicant in order to prepare a final draft law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. This law alone passed with 78 votes in favour, 16 against and 5 abstentions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61964	We move on to - Final bill amending the Law on postal services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 540 Proposer of the Law is Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and by the Committee on Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure. You received the reports at the session. The bill will be explained by Deputy Maritime, Transport and Infrastructure Minister Mr Zdenko Antešić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61965	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished MPs and MPs. According to the applicable postal service law, the universal postal service provider HP-Croatian mail is obliged to provide domestic postal services for 100% non-priority mailing within three days. Without the possibility of a tolerance from that obligation of delivery, since the share of priority mailing agents in the total number of postal mailings in the Republic of Croatia is less than 1%, this indicates a large number of non-priority senders within the universal area to which this very strict measure of the quality of the provision of universal service is concerned. The current provision on the quality of universal service needs to be adapted following the fact that 100% of non-priority postal services are delivered within three working days, due to unplanned and unforeseen circumstances such as: the possibility of losing the postal consignment or exceeding the time limit for the transfer and delivery or the like. It is also necessary to amend the provisions on judicial protection against decisions and other administrative acts of the Croatian Post and Electronic Communications Agency as well as against the decision of postal inspectors to comply with the law on administrative disputes. This Law addresses the following fundamental issues. Further compliance shall be carried out with the provisions of the Postal Directive governing the quality of the provision of universal service and in accordance with the practice of other Member States of the European Union. Furthermore, the jurisdiction of administrative courts shall be governed in the light of the meaning, legal characteristics and complexity of certain administrative procedures on the jurisdiction of HACOM in such a way as to determine the jurisdiction of the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia in the proceedings against decisions and other administrative acts of HACOM, while in administrative disputes between the users and the postal service providers, the jurisdiction of local administrative courts shall be determined. In addition, judicial protection against post office inspectors' solutions is arranged before the local administrative court and only exceptional in the case of serious infringements of the Law on postal services can the administrative dispute be opened before the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. The goals achieved by passing the law are as follows. The adoption of this law will adapt the quality criteria for the provision of a universal service to the real possibility of delivering non-priority postal e-mails by universal service providers and in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Postal Directive and the practice of other Member States of the European Union. The provisions on judicial protection against decisions and other administrative acts of HACOM and the decision on the postal inspector will also comply with the provisions of the Law on Administrative Disputes and with the relevant provisions of the Law on Electronic Communications in order to bring those legal solutions in line with each law governing the accession and operation of HACOM. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61966	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. It's the clubs. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61967	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Here I would like to present a few personal thoughts about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services but also about the Club's views as well because, in itself, this law is nothing revolutionary and it will not only change the outcomes, some of the other problems that are important may be mentioned. So I'd actually start with the easy part. So, as well as the basic law on postal services, these amendments and additions are based on EU Parliament and Council directives. It is important, therefore, not to list all European documents, that the European Union documents are important to note that the very basic postal service law of 2012 is in fact a harmonisation with the third postal directive in order to fully liberalise the postal services market. The 2012 postal service law addresses the following fundamental issues which are the logic of things on the market but also the possibility of creating the very problems of the functioning of our national operator in particular. Therefore, the abolition of exclusive monopoly rights or the reservation of part of universal postal services. This would be good if for years it hadn't fallen into reserved services, written shipments up to 50 grams from other donors, and none of the supervisory authorities would have prevented it. And that's when the HP was caused by a single damage that's still going through the consolidated balance sheets of the same society today. How to determine the public service provider throughout the territory of the Republic of Croatia. In other words, HP has become a universal service provider for the next 15 years, with the quality of service provision throughout the Republic of Croatia, every 5 years it is again determined whether the quality to which it provides services is good enough and whether it complies with the criteria of HACOM or Regulation, or the European Union standard. Share of postal services in universal, replacement and postal services and other postal services. So these others are now becoming others by this law. The way in which the universal service is financed in the Republic of Croatia, therefore increased expenditure due to non-refundability will be reportedly financed from the compensation fund by the payment of other donors 5%, the release of universal services from VAT and the settlement from the budget of the loss of the order of unfair burden for the provision of universal postal services in the area of the Republic of Croatia unless there are sufficient funds from the compensation fund as well as funds achieved by the universal services themselves. Enabling access to the universal service network to other postal service providers, consolidaters, therefore large users with whom services and other service users are contracted. This Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services actually changes a few small things as I said. The content of all amendments is contained in compliance with some of the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, as the Deputy Minister and the Nomotechnical Regulation of the criteria for the determination of the quality of postal service performance. In Article 11 of the Law against the decision of other acts, HACOM is not allowed to appeal but it can now be brought against them by administrative dispute before the High Administrative Court of the Republic of Croatia. And it can be extraordinary now... to initiate an administrative dispute before a local administrative court when it comes to disputes between users and postal service providers. ... [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] in the sense of Article 54, 55 of the basic law, the possibility of a second-degree procedure for the benefit of postal service users was. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] An administrative dispute may be brought before the local administrative court and, exceptionally, before the High Administrative Court, against the decision of the postal inspector and the follow-up of Articles 62 and 63 of the basic law. In accordance with Article 40(1) of the basic law, only one word "other consignments" is changed to "other consignments".". This is, in fact, the harmonisation of the types of services set out in Article 14 of the basic law. Namely, in internal postal transport, the delivery of postal 85% of postal consignors of the fastest category within 1 day must be ensured. You know what the fastest category is? There's 1% of them. Everyone else isn't the fastest. So unpriorious. That's 95% within two days. For all other shipments of 90% of all shipments within three days. So, in three days it has to be delivered and there must be nothing. This isn't about reception day, not working days, late due to force majeure, days when handing is not done. So, in an office, you don't have to serve three days a week and days, and for the islands it's extended by one day. Following this statement, this Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Postage Services of the SDP Club actually supports it as it is. But I must point out here that it is worth mentioning a few facts that just refer to the quality here, which is mentioned in these procedures, which is the quality of the postal service provision. Here's the question of loose deadlines. It's due to be served, and it's for 99% of the senders, as I said, only 1% is priority. Before we could count the deadlines of 4.5 and 6 days for transfer and delivery, but then it should be prescribed. HP was established in 2011 to deliver 94.10% of non-priority shipments, which was 95.01 in 2012. The average time of transfer of non-priority shipments in 2011 is 1.96 days, in 2012. 1.99 days, so almost two days. In fact, domestic traffic should be delivered to 100% of the senders as I said in three days, but by which calculation. It's still in nature like that. So they were doing some kind of shooting, I've never seen it, I'd like to see the recording of that independent company that, unex, that's what it's called, but I haven't been able to find it. So the question is which relations the public operator and how many really postal shipments can achieve the proper quality prescribed since the law found that the deadline for the area on the islands extends by another day, so it would turn out to be 6-7 days, and we are witnessing in nature that this is happening even in some longer time frames, even on land. So to show it plastically, so if the letter was received in Split, it must be delivered to Brač Island and brother to his brother for 6 days, that's it. So why not set a deadline that we can submit and comply with the law, but also all regulations and determine the obligations of the operator. Maybe someone can do it, and I think that certainly a national operator can, but maybe a different organization. Maybe if you were in postal services, not something else. So this would be a very simple and logical law if it didn't have to be observed, so as I said through the quality determined by the measurement that was recorded in the 2012 HACOM report, which is precisely to establish the truth about the quality of universal postal services. According to HACOM's Annual Report on the quality of the provision of universal postal services to HP for 2012 it is apparent that the public operator participated in several measurements, as I said, of the letters sent by international transport, one of which was the measurement of transmission, a test of priority senders with EU members according to EU standards. The measure taken by an independent company, as I said, showed that D+3 transfer quality conditions were not met. Only 58% of the senders were served, and D+5 was only served 88% of the senders. Independent continuous measurement for domestic transport of priority and non-priority consignors has also shown that the conditions of service quality are not met. 78% of senders are transferred to the D+2 deadline, and 95% of non-priority senders are transferred to D+2. For me, this D+3 is even questionable, but good. It means that sufficient quality has not been achieved according to the HACOM report for one day's handover. Of the 23 100 objections to the provision of postal services in domestic transport, HP admitted 3360, i.e. for each 7th shipment or 15%. Most refer to the loss, and then to the damage to the international traffic shipments. 5124 objections were received in international traffic, with 943 or 18% recognised. So, otherwise, we're in bad international traffic in postal traffic. The quality of the provision of services cannot contribute to the abolition of postal offices, from 1126 to 1042 and the announcement of the abolition of new ones. I think there are already fewer but more than 900 cancellations at the moment, and the cancellation of most workers' contracts by the end of this year, most of which are long-term technologists and adequate training, which means engineers, masters, and performers, all technology and contractors, about 80% of them, and retaining administrative staff. Then an insight into the balance sheet’s balance sheet, which shows a hole in the business and in the company’s debt and which shows the loss and debt transferred from the period during the period as I said in the new borrowing. The cost of all workers at the annual level will therefore not amount to those who are provided with 30 million kuna at the annual level, but the income structure is obviously unbearable, and possibly an existing organisation. In fact, out of 1.5 billion kuna revenues, salary costs are slightly less than 1.1 billion kuna in Croatia's post office. So when you take more material costs, what remains for some other expenses, then you have to go into some kind of borrowing. I hear that the criteria, as it says in some trade union journals, are they true or not, to determine, to take care of workers 66% of subjective character. This means they are not based on any economic indicators: economics, rentability and efficiency. Here I do not mention 53m euros in debt on the Zagreb Stock Exchange, which I assume will be closed by a new debt of a greater amount. In the 2012 HP balance sheet, so here I come back again, the long-term obligations of Croatian mail have increased by 28.9% to 397.8 million. This is about refinancing of the bonds made in 2012 while short-term bonds amount to 214,8 million or 28% more than 2011. The market for services that HP now deals with is only 65 to 67% of postal services, and it is tense, about 28% of other services on our market, far less than other public operators in the European Union. The purchase of gold, insurance, centralization of the processing of shipments, so here near Zagreb, in Gorica there is a security area and, of course, some means that will have to be spent, so this means the unnecessary transfer and the cost of large shipments now being carried out in the centralization of the distribution of shipments by delivery regions. So the shipment travels from Split to Zagreb to be sorted out in the streets, then returns. We know the printers we're talking about. Sales of large-scale goods, EVO TV. I'm really interested in how much EVO TV gets. So, that dispatch center, like I said, but I wonder what kind of traffic that dispatch center is for. We're not actually going to do a dispatch centre for northeastern Europe. So we have as much traffic as we have a million and it seems to me like 100, a billion and 500 million pieces of shipments like that. So, the vast majority of universal services. So 55% of this was done by the Croatian Post Office and more than that very difficult if we do not become a serious factor in postal, international postal transport especially in the EU area. So, what about the consolidateds? So, I hear that the Croatian Post Office is now using student service at the same time that it quits. And also, when he takes care of people, when he prepares people to take care of this one that we've been talking about for a little while, 70 percent is also the use of annual vacations. So these are some of my available information that I managed to find out from the site and that I managed to get here from the Internet. And as far as I know, AZTN is also in the process of conducting a procedure on the use of dumped prices for exactly some of the prices that HP has agreed with some of the great users. I'm not saying this because I'm against it, but I want him to do business, that he's dealing with what was born to him with postal and financial services like he's always been. He can't deal with selling pasta. So, I'm not even talking about the neglected financial service in HP. I'm not going to talk about price politics either. If it needs to be reported individually. In any event, we know that the universal service is exempt from VAT under the VAT Act, Article 39(1). Thus, at the level of the present performance in the millions of kuna for 2012 782.2 million kuna. Thus, the budget has in some way freed Croatia's mail for some 156 million kuna. So no rentability was achieved with that release. So that rentability is missing. So, I would no longer prolong the fact that forward, what I said earlier proves that only the organisation and management of the system itself is not in the function of the system itself, and the Croatian mail would actually be good, and this Parliament would also be able to discuss the annual report on the work of the Croatian Post Office once. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61968	Thank you very much. Stjepan Milinkovic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61969	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Comrade Rilje, you have really explained this post office quite widely to us from that financial framework of the description of service universal, replacement. But from all that left, she stuck to my ear a sentence where you said this law wouldn't make any difference. And I agree with you, he won't. Why? Because it's already changed some things in the postal business, but of course to the damages of the weakest. In my county, the Koprivnica-Crissy I come from was lifted from six post offices. You've already announced others, unfortunately, that it might go in further order, of course, and more unemployed. This brought people, our fellow citizens of older age into a difficult situation, an unequal position. A short time ago we saw about that pension if you remember when we talked about the OIBs, so they didn't send a short pension, etc. Well done with modern technologies, but it's not that simple. These are, of course, commercial ones who are these packages, that's what they wear if they have an interest. These aren't even here who's going to bring our old fellow citizens packages that live on hard times for Christmas now. Of course, we at the local self-government will try to help them in some way. But indeed this way and this approach to abolish these arrangements mainly in rural poor areas because it is not welcome and brings our fellow citizens into an unequal position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61970	Replication response, Damir Rilje.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61971	Dear fellow Milinkovic, I agree with you in some way but it is a narrow view. You know, this is market activity and it's a little harder than you said. In fact, the way is to finance a system as structural as the Croatian Post Office. And I'm a little bit of an hour saying that you might have overlooked how everything was made possible. The mail is not an out-of- budget user, but is provided with funds in the budget if it does business with a loss just in case. On the other hand, he was released from VAT. On the third hand, there's some sort of compensation fund that can't even be settled in madness. So the fact is that the number of post offices is happening, and the proposal of some management problems is happening because look. You can either cut or create new jobs. I'm not about to cut myself. So we have one hell of a good infrastructure. And we'll allow all the other users, so that reminds me of HH infrastructure, right? That stands, okay, we're on the market, no problem, this is capitalism. But let's get this straight. Everything has its price. Also, he works there now about 9,000 workers. 3,000 have already been fired. And what did that accomplish? What's going to happen to these 270 people you've just fired at year level no more than 30 million kuna, sure. And I don't know how much loss is now shown at this point I'm not sure, here I haven't checked, but there won't be a smaller one who'll show a post office less than 40. That's it, that's it, that's it. And now I'm asking you what we're accomplishing? We're going back to zero, and we actually need to create a functional system, and we have it, it is. It is at 89 to 98% in all European countries. He's working intensely, has a small growth trend or safe. That's what this is about. He just can't do anything except what he's supposed to do. Why get rid of people who know what they're doing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61972	We have a break until 3:00. The first one will be the HDZ club and counterpart Josip Boris. Party at 13.25pm.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61973	[[CONTINUATION AFTER 15.00 HOURS]] On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Josip Boris. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61974	Thank you very much, Vice President, Your Honor. This week is a week of law from the Ministry of the Sea. maritime, transport and infrastructure. We think that although this is a very short law of only 3 articles that change somewhat, the opportunity to say more in general about the situation in the postal sector, and above all about the state of a public company, these are Croatian mails. What do Croatian mail get with this law? In Article 40(1), paragraph 1 is amended as follows: "In domestic postal transport, 85% of postal consignors of the fastest category within 1 working day, or 95 within 2 working days, and for all other domestic consignments 95% within 3 days." So far we haven't had this number 95%, it's been three days. We can see this as a battle of the Croatian Post Offices for Quality, but also, above all, compliance with EU directives that require full measurement from us. A colleague named Rilje spoke about it a little more today. I think he took a very good picture of the overall situation in the field of universal services, so I will try to say something in my further discussion about the situation within our Croatian post office because from the reports available about the work of this public company we have one opposite view between what the administration is saying and what the union is saying. So it's probably true somewhere in that middle part so we can try to find out what's true within this debate. In addition to these amendments, the procedure of the administrative dispute shall be prescribed when the decision is taken by HACOM i.e. procedures shall be laid down when solutions are issued by the postal inspector. And we won't be against this law, this is still harmonizing with EU laws, but let's see what it really means for Croatian mail in today's time. The fact was that when the market opened or as we say it liberalised from 1.01.2013 that Croatia's post had entered the market in a far more unfavourable position than were the same operators in some other EU countries. When that market opened, 70% of the shares had Croatian mail, and already in 2012 30% of that market performed as much as I saw from the HACOM Report 21 operators. This has not happened and some countries have said in other EU countries they have kept it very well and some more than 10 years that these percentages are not decreasing and many of them are still today, although they have already entered the EU in a much more favourable position when we talk about this market compared to this major operator between relations with these others that appear on the market. When the post day was a universal postal service, it was clear to everyone that this service also carries additional costs that everyone else does not have. The Croatian Post Office must have at least 942 post offices. She had 1042, as far as we can tell from the HACOM report in 2012 the number of post offices decreased by 84. Croatian post office has to go daily to 1700 smaller rural districts, it must empty 5,000 mailboxes or coffins and must always provide citizens with the prescribed quality and deadlines for the delivery of postal services. But what happened in a year? When we opened the market and when the public business started in different relationships that had already been violated, I say before opening the market to perform my services. The administration says clearly this year that 1,100 workers will be fired. It's a restructuring of Croatian post office, 1100 workers. At the 8th month, 850 workers were fired in the first part. There is always a question of why we are in the season, in touristic terms the time when the greatest burden is, when the biggest crowd is on the Adriatic and in all of Croatia, when the biggest and economic activities are not yet waiting to be said for a month or two days so that the 850 can be fired in order to provide maximum quality service at that time? After being fired 850 recently we have witnessed the protest of the Croatian Post Office Unions recently here in the square because there has been a release and 280 other people from the system. All this justice is done by reducing costs and the need to optimise the work of the public company to make it work with profits. However, what counterpart Rilje spoke of is omitted, which is quality. But regardless of this, the figures warn that a major decline is taking place in the area of universal services, only within three years the number of services has decreased by nearly 13 million. When you have 13 million services that you have provided less securely that your financial result, your financial income cannot be positive. Of all these services universally account for 55% or 189 million as many as there were in 2012. We all know what's ahead of us. There will certainly be a single saturation of the market, perhaps some foreign postal operators will enter the Croatian market. This will lead to further price reductions, the establishment of new business entities on the market, the identification of these smaller operators perhaps some higher, perhaps to offer some new products, new distribution channels. However, this part of the universal service is something that the Croatian Post Office must keep and develop. When we look at the part of the financial services, revenues in 2012 are less 1% than in 2011 or in kunas 12 million kunas. Total revenue at 2011 level was a billion and 654 million, 2012 billion 595, almost 60 million kuna less per year. The expenditure in 2011 billion kuna 633 million, in 2012 billion 619. When we look at the owner's share of Croatian post office in Postanska Banka, the one on 31.12.2012. was 27.49% or 306 million kuna. Staff costs amount to a billion and 98 million kunas in 2011 and 2012 billion and 96. Long-term and short-term liabilities of 660 million kuna. What HACOM's report said during 2012, internal postal transport was carried out by the transfer and handing over 78% of priority letter mails within one working day, 95.3 priority letter mails within two working days and 95 ordinary letter mails within three working days. It fits into these changes that we're discussing today. Is that really how it is? My colleague Rilje talked about it more, and I won't say it again. We actually have some problems especially in rural areas and most where 84 post offices have been abolished. This is why we experience as a small help mail so that the number of objections is not as large as it was in 2012. In 2012 Croatian mail had 23 and 100 complaints from users about the services they provide. The HPI’s own responsibility has been determined for each 7 complaints lodged, or 3 360 cases. When we challenged the HACOM report here in that section and said it couldn't stand a sentence that said no matter what 84 postal offices closed down, that the quality of the service remained at the same level. It wasn't experienced properly. However, the facts are such and points to this report submitted by the Croatian Post Office for the first six months of this year. And for the first six months of this year, they're saying that the post office continues to have a fall in the work of universal services. From their postal services, they recorded a decline in revenue of 20 million kuna. In order to compensate for this fall in revenue from its activity, it reached for the sale of real estate. The proceeds from the sale of real estate amounted to 70 million kuna so that 6 months were completed with profits of some 23 or 25 million kuna if I looked well. What do the unions say about that? The trade unions say the administration is not carrying out what the Roland Berger consultant house wrote when it set up a restructuring programme and what the post office should be doing under this study for five years. They say there has been an increase in staff costs but not because there has been an increase in wages but because the number of staff in the Directorate itself has increased, i.e. In the offices of the administration themselves, they target administrative staff. They say that during this year, when 8502 workers were fired with their hands and hats were divided into stimulative severances for which nearly 500 million kunas were spent for which Croatian mail and debt were charged. They argue that only the last discharge of 850 workers is trying to offset the loss effect of 49 million kuna during the first nine months. They say the information on the delivery of shipments isn't as they are imposed by law but as bad as it is. They say that even the most rewarding HP express creates a loss in business. They also say that of these 270 who need to leave this public company that they do not wish to establish the will that they volunteered to go to early retirement or to leave the company, but that the administration is implementing some of its criteria to determine who it is that will have to leave the public company. He also says that they had to take 30 students to regularly deliver shipments. They also point to nepotism. They say air mechanics, sellers, even ceramics and ovens are employed. It's something that bothers the union. He says that out of these 270 and that's what counterpart Rilje mentioned in his presentation, only 12% refers to the administration and 87% to those who are operatives, which may be the most important,... Auxiliary workers, team leaders and so on. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] These are the problems faced by this public enterprise, which apparently has a certain problem in operation. What will be the financial result at the end of 2013 given the report for the first 6 months, we believe that there will be a shortage within the public company, i.e. minus in business and that all that happened to the layoff of workers, over 1100 workers of 84 post offices that closed down will not compensate for the quality that Croatia once had, that we will be in trouble because Croatian mail started dealing with activities that are being warned of by counterpart Rilje. And that's that we now have a new EVO TV operator when we talk about the area of television. That they also deal with other activities, that mail became some kind of small trade in which there are all kinds of items, by buying gold, etc. where big revenues were expected and there were actually certain losses that did not rest and what is lost in the area of universal services. And for this reason, the only right solution is for Croatian mail to do what counterpart Rilja said, fundamentally, his most important job. Deliver the letter where it should be delivered as soon as possible. And as far as I'm concerned, The disagreement between the unions and them, here I'll just say that it's best to sit down, make arrangements and not turn out not to be a problem in the left wheel, but in the right-hand volume as they wrote it themselves and find one middle and determine who's really right because this is how I say business leads to even more difficult losses. [[Intruder: Time co-worker.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61975	Thank you. [[Intruder: Thank you, fellow Boric.]] The replica of Ante Babic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61976	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Col. Borić, you said in your presentation that you should respect the quality and deadlines of postal services in time and then you talked about how many post office posts, mailboxes, how many post office offices were removed. So I'll tell you, for example, Imotski krajina, let's say in the area of Biorina, Dobrinja and Cysta Great at 100 square kilometers are closed offices or Sviba, Poljica, Rastovac, Mijac, there are no post office at 200 km square. It threatens to close offices in Studenci, Lovrec, Stone Bridge and Vinjani and again about 200 square kilometers. Of the 45 seats I received this morning from Split in 21 places mail will be shared only once a week and you are talking about the quality of services. Now you can imagine, for example, in the public procurement process how many problems these problems will actually cause participants in the public procurement process itself. It's just not good. If this is about the rationalization you're talking about, then it's not just about rationalization, it's about the social cost that's actually showing up. If this social cost is greater, then this rationalisation is not made in the best or most optimal way that pleases citizens. Because the goal is to make services as accessible as possible to the citizens and not to collect themselves, and these are actually what they collect. And that actually makes service quality worse. If we look at just the examples of these places from Vrlika, Vrgorca, Sinj and Imotski where the parts of the court are already shut down, the criminal department, part of the State's Attorney's Office, veterinary inspection Agricultural monitoring agencies then we see that they are actually systematically working on evicting these people from these areas. [[Intruder: Bring the end of your colleagues, it's time.]] Actually, we should all live in... [[Intruder: Thank you.]] Thank you. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61977	Thank you. We have a response to the replica. Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61978	Thank you very much. Well, my colleague Babić, me and my colleague Rilje rightly warned about this problem because the fact is that in 2012 we said in the end of 2012, there were 10 thousand and 543 workers, that at the end of 2013, there would be about 9 thousand and 400 workers in the system. 1100 workers are not little for one such system. And when you fire 1100 workers, no one can claim that the quality you provide in that segment is equal. And when you do that, it's clear to everyone that we can't talk about the same level of quality. And I don't understand why the Croatian Post Office immediately went into what gave it the Law on Post Offices when it allowed them to remove 10% of the total postal offices to rationalise their business in this way. I'm just stating how many were abolished in 2012. In Varazdin County 2, Sibenik-Kninska 3, Split-Dalmatia 12, Sisak-Moslavina 6, Primorje-Goranska 7, Osijek-Baranja 7, Koprivnica-Kryzevaga 6, Karlovac County 10, Dubrovnik-Neretvanska 6, Belgrade-Belogorska 6. Not to mention those other counties where they were slightly less abolished. It means that it was distributed to the entire territory of the Republic of Croatia. And it's certainly not true that all those offices that were abolished were negative in business or that they didn't have a need. There were also criteria that would make further work of the post in this way difficult. Croatian Post Offices will also end this year in 2013 if they do not comply with what they have already done in the first 6 months, they do not start selling their property and property.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61979	Thank you. Damir Rilje, replica. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61980	Thank you very much. Here's my colleague, Boric, I'd just like to refer to a few items you said. Therefore, the guaranteed quality must be at least 5 admissions and 5 serving 90% of households in the territory of the Republic of Croatia to the public operator. HACOM allowed 10% of households not to enter that number. The question is, what are these households? I couldn't find it anywhere. They can be households in some neighborhood across the street, and they don't have to. On the other hand, it collects a service on the counter, so cash services in the Croatian Post Office, more expensive services on the Croatian Post Office counter than on the Croatian Post Bank counter, we also know why it is, not to be longer because I won't be able to get what I still have to say. So long ago there are finances, or those financial services, in the seal. As for the number of services, we see that the decline of 9% means of 232 million universal services was 179 million, HP is constantly falling with market share, I don't know why it's allowed. HP Express, so when you deliver HP Express in the mail office when the delivery doesn't work then it's an extraordinary cost. It's only going for one shipment out there with some kind of fuel and some kind of man, I don't know when it's, like, Saturday or some other day, it's D+1, and that's it. The division structure is also a structure that looks more like MORH to me than to Croatia's mail, so now you have a situation of receiving and handing in, in fact, almost having to make contracts to do jobs between each other. And of course as far as the norms are concerned, I wouldn't talk about norming, I know when the mail was carried out in Croatia. I think that is the basis and that all economic indicators are the basis of what should be done and how to work in that system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61981	Answer, fellow Boric. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61982	Thank you very much. Comrade Rilje, here I agree and these two of our debates regarding the law we will support it because it gives a small manipulative space, let's call it that and everything else in terms of quality of business will not happen better if the administration does not find the best way to compensate for what it loses, and the reports for the first 6 months are visible that they have found a way to sell certain properties in order to reduce the loss. The proceeds from the sale of real estate in 6 months 70 million kuna, and we had a loss in postal services 23 if I read it correctly. What's going on? We've had local elections this year. It's embarrassing, we remember all the local choices, everyone wants to introduce themselves in every household. The flights are divided on the basis of signing contracts, but if you're going to send 5,000 fliers, and pay 300 or 400 kuna for that, it's a job that starts with a certain loss. We're all aware of that and that's where management needs to be raised and there can't be the only way of firing workers, closing post offices, so we're going to increase revenues. If we come down to it, the Croatian Post Office does not have a good future. And as for additional services, EVO TV is already their second year in implementation, the revenues are only 15,000 connections, it created only in selling those devices a certain level that I have seen in 6 months 800,000 kunas of some earnings, and the system needs to be maintained, the system is obviously having problems technically and then the unions object to what I have stated, that unprofessional people are being hired, that those who knew the business technology of Croatian mail and that the administration has been protected against those who have to do their work daily on that small engine that has certain costs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61983	Thank you. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Mladen Novak. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61984	Thank you very much, Vice President. Dear Deputy, colleagues and colleagues. As my predecessors have said, it is a technical law, so the very core of this amendment cannot be too much... or concretely it is about harmonising with European Union regulations so that we cannot talk much about the law itself, but what my predecessor would say is this to take advantage of this time and this opportunity to warn about the situation that is with the Croatian Post Office. If I am not mistaken, I believe that the restructuring process would correct me if I was wrong, that the restructuring process is going on for about 5 years or so, I may have missed something, but what is happening in all our companies, it is not Croatia's mail any exception, the same story is Croatian railways, HEP, INA, anyone to enter. Then this text published in their union paper speaks enough about how such restructurings are carried out in Croatia, and the title is in case you can't see "We weren't losers before restructuring". This does not mean that, in time, given the circumstances that have arisen to the fact that we have been preparing to join the European Union for market liberalisation so as not to be losers that they have remained in the old way, but certainly not that, this kind of restructuring that has not been done with the desired fruit. This government has been in that position for two years. In those two years, I have to admit that I don't know, I didn't follow, not now that it's the government's remark, but I really don't know if there's been any change, human change, whether it was setting up my frame or not, and I'm not getting into that part of the story, but it's obvious that all these results are now that I'm not repeating them, especially the results that my colleague Rilje explained and cited. Obviously, all these results indicate that the situation is not good and that our approach to this whole story is extremely wrong. Here it is mentioned here now and in the last replica of colleagues Rilje mentioned some of these failures, a bad organization, if I do not cheat division mentions, associates, well said associates rather with the military than with the Croatian Post Office system. He mentioned the cost of services, technological unpreparedness, and new services were mentioned. So now that you're looking at you have a health situation we say let's let's all outsorcing let's take it outside it just burdens you with basic activity and it's very bad. And here you are at HP in the retail mail offices that we will buy bread, pasta and all the other items in their counter. But the problem is what their most basic, elemental services seem to be getting harder and harder and harder and harder to get. I think my colleague mentioned that available capacities are enough to make market coverage a percentage of 89 to 98%. If I'm not mistaken, I read that our current coverage, or Croatian mail, is covered by the market somewhere around 65%. These 89 to 98% usually have EU countries. Is it not sufficient to give authority, that whoever has it, because Croatian mail is in state property, to think about what direction it is going in and why it is so? Obviously something needs to be done. My colleague mentioned in his discussion both the Croatian railways and that part of the story, but believe me, there is no difference between HH and HP or any other. Our public companies are all completely unprepared. And what's the worst of it even when we see it and when we point it out, nothing happens. And then what the colleague has just mentioned is going with the restructuring process translated into Croatian means firing workers and selling real estate. How is it, for example, not necessary in other countries, that there are other ways to solve such a problem. We're the only ones who don't exist. The role of HACOM or market takeover is mentioned here, so I will say even in an illegal way, in some way where HAKOM has kept his mouth shut even though it is a fundamental role to warn anyone about it and nothing. Based on this, such silent consent by HACOM occurred on the market by the Croatian Post Office at about 65%. Now I'm asking a question if all the public knows it, if all the employees know it, if all the media, if we're talking about this pay phone interestingly how only the State's Attorney's Office doesn't know about this story. Just before we had, just before, the other day we had a repeated mention of HZ Carg, his failure and purchase, forced purchase of colossals in DIOKI, and we all know in the state about it just doesn't know the state's attorney. Very interesting, I think that kind of thing happens. I'm afraid someone mentioned it a few days ago that the State's Attorney's Office will react without delay about 2030, given how it is, what dynamics it currently holds. The reduction in the number of offices is also mentioned today by both speakers of my predecessors. I was simply pulled to mention in this story and the suspension of bus lines, because these are all rural and mostly remote areas. Elimination of bus lines, removal of railway lines, termination of post offices. We're really sending a message in these areas that we're not interested in life surviving, cutting schools, kindergartens. What kind of relationship is that? The other day we had the Law on Areas of Special State Care, the Law on Mountain and Mountain Areas, the Vukovar Act. What kind of message are we sending? Let's go to the post office! [[/Upadica Batinić: Let's go to the post office, shall we?]] It's the termination of the post office. That's what I started with. But thank you very much for reminding me. The colleagues also mentioned 270 cancellations in the Croatian Post Office, and I have to conclude with one such disappointment that in the media it is presented by the Croatian Post Office that it is mostly administrative workers, administration and upgrade to get this information that I believe is far more accurate, that it is about about 12 to 13% of the administrators, or some upgrades, and that unfortunately most of these are probably about those offices that are closing down. And as much as I appreciate what you've warned me about, as much as I'm aware that the Rules of Procedure need to stick to the subject we're talking about, which is specifically this law. This is one of the few times when we can warn about the situation that is in some of these companies that are still state-owned. It's incomprehensible to say, I believe my colleagues mentioned that, I think the collection centre in Velika Gorica, or something like that, it's incomprehensible to say that it's going through, it's money, the state would have to make sure that such things are both organisational and technical that we all have no idea first, and on the other hand that those responsible are simply silent about it. I am taking this opportunity to mention once again the Committee on Transport, which has been searching for the thematic sessions for a year and a half. Now, counterpart Rilje mentioned that he should have at least once a year a report on the business of Croatian Post Offices. Not only is this Parliament gone, but there's no committee in charge of it. And that's what's really tragic. It is in fact a demonstration of how this government applies to this Parliament as well as to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia because this abolition of these offices in the field will be affected only by citizens on the ground. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61985	Thank you, too. Damir Rilje, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61986	Thank you very much, Vice President. My colleague Novak, I just wanted to, so here's what you've left me with. There was no personnel change. So, the same team remained except that the former director is no longer but that's why the gentleman who led the HP express, the directorate of HP express in Croatia, is a mail, yes. But it doesn't matter. I think the responsibility for managing is the responsibility for managing. As far as this administration is concerned, we only have one man who's gone if we're going to look that way. But it's important to me that there are professional people who run the system where it needs to be led. It's about quality. It's important for the quality of the postal service. As far as employment is concerned, I can only tell you that in the offices that Croatia has reduced employment, it is true, but from 2008 to 2011, around 200, 220 workers were employed annually, except in 2013 only 31 workers. Now, I don't know where we got lost in the translation, so why are we gonna fire these now? I mean, since we've already received someone else. It's just a matter of what specialties. And I don't want to get into it right now, but it's quality, it's quality, because here we heard an air mechanic and I don't know the rest of me have nothing against anyone and I want everyone to do it, but here you may have to respect what's important, so let's get on there whoever can do it. As far as costing is concerned, it is also a matter of quality and competitiveness. And that's one of the fundamental differences which is why when it was supposed to and when it was released from VAT, the post office didn't want to be competitive and it could have been more competitive for that amount than it was. And I just wanted to point out that this isn't the first time in this House that there's been a story about the Post Office, it used to be, I wasn't there, I don't know if you, some of them were, but I know it's already been discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61987	Thank you. Answer me, colleague Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61988	I didn't even call for a shift at the Croatian Post Office or I called for a shift or I said it was necessary or unnecessary, I was just pointing out that I didn't care who was there, whose name, name, and name, that the only thing that matters is whether this company is doing business positively or negatively, whether this company has any reason to exist, you said in your debate that this is now an open market, that we have entered into capitalism and that it is now inevitable. But I'm telling you, it's the wrong thesis. It doesn't matter what capitalism is. And that blackest capitalism covers some parts, it has to be covered simply. So what do you think health care and education is and what we're going to say is not profitable, it doesn't bring income, so let's cut it out. I mean, what are we talking about then? And as for this employment that you mentioned, I believe that since the owner had no objection to the business of previous administrations that quality employment, or quality replacement of personnel, was working to improve the quality of business. Because that's what my colleague Boric was talking about, we fired the extra workers, I think 850 and now 270, but we received those that we obviously needed in the technology process. So I think the mentioned wallpapers and something like that, something that's a natural profession from the Croatian Post Office, something that you expect when you come to the counter that a man can do to you anything you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61989	Branko Hrg, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61990	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the esteemed colleague is right, you said that these postal offices are being abolished, and I have to say that there was not only suspensions, that at one point there was even a suggestion that local self-government was funding the estimated losses that were being made by the postal office and that in principle no local self-government of course went to work because it wouldn't make sense. Today, we are unfortunately looking at the life of a man through economic cost-effectiveness, and then the man in Croatia is not economically cost-effective everywhere. It means it's not even as valuable because simply some people who live in some more rural areas are obviously not as valuable as those people who live in urban areas where everything is worth it. But I'm afraid that after this step of abolishing these post offices and showing that economic indemnity that we might get into a situation very quickly that and cities that aren't so-called. large cities or not the county headquarters are also beginning to close the postal office and that in this secret regionalization all of this is moving and setting up in those cities that will be designated for some centres. And that's one big danger because all of this is ultimately paying the citizens again because every closing of some office this time is a post office and all of the other offices that you've been talking about actually additionally burdens the budgets and pockets of ordinary citizens because then they must, of course, go after the offices to do their basic life needs that they have. And that's one discrimination in Croatian society where we're just really acting out, not all of us, some are more equal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61991	Thank you. Hey, buddy Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61992	Yes, my colleague Hrg fully agrees with everything you've said with that you've reminded us a little bit, so when you said co-financing was required from the local self-government unit. So in his own time he came out I don't know anymore was some advisory house that suggested that HZ, offered to the units of local self-government to subsidize the transport on these railways leading to these cities which is normal to expect but these large environments, and Croatian bones, and Gline, and anyway has a lot of money so I can dispose of it, I can subsidize state companies, it's quite normal. But I'll also remind you of the Law of Resuscitation of Public Hospitals, County Hospitals, we'll be aware of the infirmarys, and everything else will move just where the big centres are and we'll probably have 4 hospitals in Croatia, everything else will be some hospitals with a little expanded activity, and that's about it. Unfortunately, everything, but everything goes that way, we don't need anything, we have obviously two Croatias, one that is completely forgotten, neglected and pushed even lower and deeper. Is it the interest of these citizens and who's asking them about it, I'm afraid no one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61993	And the last replica, Josip Boric, come in.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61994	Thank you very much. My colleague Novak, you were talking about the restructuring and abolition of these post offices. It's not even the biggest problem, the problem is that there are no known criteria, there are no known criteria, and it happens that and where mail is absolutely necessary and where there are reasons why it should be lifted and where perhaps there is no need to be left as a post office. The state is not that it does not make up the Maritime Ministry this year for 2014 it planned by law that it could compensate for part of the cost, and there really stands 20 million and 400 thousand kuna, but I have warned here when we talked about the HACOM report on one illogicality, that this agency, which is the regulatory body, which realizes that something is wrong on this market, simply determines that something is wrong and saves 100 million kunas on the account and savings and on that 100 million kunas per year. Well, I think it's a place where HP and management but also HACOM but the government must react. It's big money. I think they have to find ways to help tell HP not to stop, not to cancel the post office because even with 10 million kunas, there's a lot of help and a lot of this 84 that's been abolished might be saved. And local self-governments have accepted the intention of mail somewhere, say in Baška where they have accepted to finance certain costs of the office just because they have a neat postal service and can afford to do what everyone else has to do in that place.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61995	Thank you. Hey, buddy Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61996	Comrade Boric, I agree with everything you've said. In fact, I support that, but it's only this last part. There was a unit of local self-government that could do it but let's be honest, not the vast majority, but the absolute majority, on the fingers of one hand, you can count those units of local self-government that come into consideration and that have the financial power to co-finance it and that they can take that field out. And on the other hand, we have an example probably because colleagues, colleagues of Baranovic, are gone, so I couldn't remember, I hadn't thought of that example before, if I had seen him, I probably would have remembered. The relationship between Croatian Post Offices, for example, according to their properties in Sibenik, where in the city centre of buildings that has been in years, I won't say for centuries but for tens of years satisfied the needs of the Croatian Post Office, they left it to get out of that location, rented another space if I didn't cheat somewhere I read the data that they paid a million kuna at the annual level of the building, I don't know if it's true, sounds a lot, but possible, anything is possible. There is money for such things, and on the other hand, we go to the closing of some offices that are honest in areas where the population of the minority depends only on such things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61997	Thank you. And here it is, buddy, here you go. On behalf of the club for five minutes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61998	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues and Mr. Deputy Minister. Article 4 states that the law is in line with the provisions of the EU Postal Directive. In Brussels, when I was an observer, I bought a kiosk postcard and spent two days looking for a post office from where I could even send these postcards. It's the EU, it's the EU center, so I sent a letter this year on June 25th with a return, so that red one, that flyer and 18th, so I got the answer to the 18th column that they received. It's the EU. From these two examples, we can see what directives we will be guided by and how one regulated company, the state, will soon have, if we will receive returns after a month and 20 days, so it has been accepted. So, I sent a letter to parliament and the post office I found in a supermarket in Nisa one holding that wheelchair where two with two is the post office in Brussels, is that right. In the basement, there was still a Parliament but no one could tell me where it was. Two by two, there's an officer who works from 10 to 1, three hours a day. And that one I was able to send and I was carrying postcards for two days, I didn't know where to send them. Last half of Brussels, no post office. But for telecommunications agencies, you have every corner. And today we are talking about our Croatian post office, about a state-owned company where people like those on the railways have become one institution, it's a postman being a railwayman, so it's, uh, having uniforms, uniforms as they say, it's something that was like that, so it was thought. A postman in the country, a doctor, a veterinarian and a priest, and these are the main people in the village. On Brač, with you Boric on Rab, in Baška, with us in Slavonia. Now what? 84 offices, and a teacher, forgive me, yes. And 84 offices were abolished because of the rationalization and restructuring of everything other than banks, it always meant, other than banks, pardons they were recapitalised, not restructured but to Shuker's capitalised, except that the banks all else meant firing, abolishing the office, reducing business, and actually slightly crawling as someone said, crawling into ruin. They like to say now that they're crawling on their knees, I guess they're walking and they're raising a coup. So what we've been talking about all day is actually the chronology of negative events in Croatia post office, the chronology of negative events, and not actually the very legal proposal that clearly states that delivery must be carried out in 95% within three days, so one day from sending or receiving 85%, etc., it is clear that it is a good thing that the deadlines for delivering senders are unormised and even by the European Union directive, there are more of them from '97. So in 2002 and 2008, then in 2012, it was not even mentioned, it was later mentioned in this. Therefore, we have opinions and unions about, post office, about this law. We also have opinions of administrations and people who are clear about this efficiency, so I'd say rationalization. But all in all, the whole of Croatia's post office is actually looking at the number of services that are being reduced, they decrease from year to year, we don't get reports to the Croatian Parliament, I don't know whose secret it is, or whose privilege it is to have the post report with us and we don't hear it, but when we get the opportunity to adopt the Pro-European Law P.Z.E. This time is 540 then we have the opportunity to express all our pleasure by abolishing the office and also in the Brod-Posavina County of 84 three and in our Brod-Posavina County. There is also a post office in Gornji Vrba that has been abolished before, so I guess for a year, because it is a suburban settlement, so there is a post office in Brod, so what will it do to them when they are a suburban municipality that will mail them. That's how it works, unfortunately. New favors. Here's a new favor, so I guess there'll be more money. We just expect to be in the post office The offices are introduced by carnivores, and the salami is slowly cut and bought on blankets. ... [[My colleague Grubisic, time is here we have replicas I'd like to ask you to finish.]] Here's what I'm not going to do. We're going to accept this bill. There's hope that something better.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u61999	Here's a replica, so there'll be an opportunity for an answer. Damir Rilje replica, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62000	Respect, Vice President. Comrade Grubisic, here I would just like to refer to two or three things, so basically that's pretty much the way it is. The fact is that we are in capitalism and no more monuments will be built, remember the time when telecommunications networks were being built and when we paid it 2.5 thousand marks, 3, so at that time you were building post offices everywhere. But as monuments, it was very difficult to maintain them and they cost a lot. Today, the post office has a lot of properties that are not classified and cleared with the center of telecommunications or with HT. Still, it's a definition, very much and it's a relatively rich company. The only problem is that you don't need any special money, not even co-financing by units of local self-government unless you're looking for a higher standard or if that service that the local community wants is nothing more than that prescribed standard. It's just enough for the post office to deal with what it has to deal with. This means that it deals with services that are the basis or source of its business. This has to be the foundation. If he's going to do something else, he's going to spend more money on it and he can't be more competitive with those who have a basis for doing business. That's a fact. On the other hand, yes, as far as the postal offices themselves and their appearances are concerned, I think important that they are functional, there will always be problems in where, and how they look and what kind of services they will offer. You know when you said just before the mailman, the mailman's institute, so what you know is every village has a priest, teacher and postman. That's true. But look the postman must indeed be a postman, which means he must be a man of his profession and one who lives daily with these people. Like we have, I don't know family, or like we have a neighborhood cop or something. So, that's the way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62001	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62002	My colleague, I don't see any difference, or reason for the replica besides this mention of capitalism, even though in this material there are also divisions of whether, perhaps, proletarian brigades, I don't know what will happen and we're in capitalism, but we're going back to the divisions and there's going to be proletarian brigades, proletarian brigades that are very numerous and more. They fill in all segments, proletarians, we become all expensive proletarians, but good. As for the post offices you spoke of, which have been abolished, it is exactly how Boris said that Baška co-financed her post office. Well, maybe I don't even know some kind of Rogoznica and Primosten, mostly those places that are at sea, that... have to say a richer local treasure given tourism, but what are we going to do, so in Slavonia just... Osijek, Brod, Vinkovci, Vukovar, Požega, Nasice and Djakova post office, everything else needs to be lifted because no local self-government can either swear or co-finance its post office. So it's terrible what's going on.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62003	Thank you. Sun Head, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62004	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So, my colleague Grubisic, when we talked about the HACOM report, you'll remember we almost talked about the same things and I'll mention again among other post offices that have been abolished, it's a small post office that belongs to the town of Prelog. There is a former mayor here, and I am sorry that we can't clarify this perhaps in the debate, so in some way this and the Deputy Minister's question is why the City of Prelog or the Post Office in Draskovec must be abolished and why the forces of the large towards the small are measured. So when we talked about the HACOM report, I have to say that the entire chronology of the debate came straight from HACOM and that it was suggested to consider why some post offices should close or not close. When we talk on the one hand about improving services, we talk about makeup, how it will be nicer, how it will look better, on the other hand we deny actually residents the right to that basic service and imagine the absurdity, the Croatian Post Office in the City of Prelog seems completely free, you believe that you know, Mr. Deputy. So they don't pay for electricity, water, accommodation, anything on the other side of the post office that belongs to that town they say if you weren't rentable, we'll shut you down. So there's no room for a deal, no desire for a deal, so I don't get it. If we want to be to the end or to caricate the situation, in the end Croatia's mail sends the city's performance, the city has won two performances and what we are going to do now, the state will do itself, so if we're going to caricate. What do we do, end the city, deny that local committee any kuna? So these are real problems, life problems. I agree that it is necessary to improve the course and put on the market and mail to make it more competitive, but not at the expense of those who are now going to receive car school information only, this is what the Prelog City has organised, the car school will drive to those mail residents. So tell me, is this really someone completely insane? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62005	Answer, colleague Grubisic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62006	My colleagues of the Sun, I really agree with you that it's abnormal that one city so his name was also Prelog, or we have Kutje's same city, although it may be about the same size, but he has the status of the city, to abolish the post office in Prelog. I can't imagine it, and I guess the car's got mail on it, maybe it's the nighttime drive, so it's gonna blow up the mail at night. But what someone has already pointed out in this debate is important, which is that as representatives, the whole public knows the criteria by which certain postal offices are abolished, so it's for everything to be the same, not for grandma and for uncles as they say. This is the responsibility of HACOM for all Croatian Post Offices. And what to say, I'm really sorry, I didn't know about the Prelog.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62007	Thank you. Branko Hrg, replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62008	Thank you very much. Coliga Grubišić, a pre-negotiation settlement on job preservation was discussed this morning, and now this afternoon we are talking about job termination, and this is about the abolition of jobs, of course, in parts of Croatia where there are no more jobs, where the part of which we talked about in the morning also directly affects these areas. I kind of feel like we're as interesting as the people, like politics. We destroy something first, destroy the system, and then prove that this system cannot survive. That's the way it is with the mail. There were all sorts of words here, that monuments were built, that I didn't know what it was. Well, my people, these monuments that were the post office or some other offices in some areas, they kept life in those environments. These people aren't in reservations, these people are not Indians, that I don't insult Indians at that time as people who were put to die because we want Croatian citizens in rural areas to really die. Is that politics? Is that economic cost-effectiveness? If it's economic cost-effectiveness, then I think we're really, really in the wrong direction and it's basically time to stop it because it's just now post office, now it's post office, tomorrow it's probably going to transfer some payments from the Croatian Post Bank to another bank and it's going to be said that the Post Office can't function, that it's very bad, that we have to sell it, etc. That's our reality, that's how we think. You can't see everything through economic cost-effectiveness, we just have to watch that some services, some institutions have to be somewhere, that they have to cost if we want people to live there. Let's do a fiscal decentralization in local self-government and local self-government will co-finance postal offices.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62009	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62010	Thank you, colleague Hrg. You reminded me that at one time in our villages, later on, and the seats of the municipalities of 450, there were both home offices and parents, and even people in their villages were able to do the wedding, enroll in the Book of Born, in the Book of the Dead and the Book of Married. There were books of parenthood. There's no such thing today. Today there's not even a department of public administration in the county where you could contracts and everything else, today they're public notebooks. So it made it possible for someone else to develop and grow and earn, and we're destroying our own state-owned companies and what the state could do to itself. That policy really doesn't make sense, I don't get that policy at all, and then I miss the money budget. And that in the environments where population is small, in which it is not worth it to some at all to perform such roles and functions, it is actually an anti-regional policy, and we will very quickly how this policy in action in many of our regions is left without people, and here we are not talking about some regions, so in some villages in Slavonia, in Sisak-Moslavina, Karlovac, Ličko-Senjska and some other counties. It's really murder, there's no people, a wide area and no people. Well then there's the post office saying even though part of these services should be like medical services, so either as fire services. If there's no fire then they say the fireman made the money suck, so it doesn't suck. He's here for, so in case there's a fire. So the postman and the postman and the mailman need in these environments that are small, which are undeveloped, in rural areas where there are few people but there is a need for civilization. [[Invader Batinić: Thank you.]] Well, the post office is a civilization reach.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62011	Thank you, colleague Grubisic. Time's up. And the last replica of Josip Boric, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62012	Thank you very much. Dear counterpart Grubisic, spoke about how it is in Brussels with the post office. No mail? It means that it is one business that does not flourish in the EU and we have warned about it. We don't expect it to be here I don't know what. We've established that the state doesn't even run away from its responsibility. She did leave certain amounts to compensate for some losses. There's some room. but it is good that in two hours we are discussing how long it takes, regardless of only three articles have warned that the problem exists and that it should be solved but not in the way it is done administratively. Because if you in Zagreb with 700,000 residents have mails per hundred meters, every hundred meters because it is profitable, as soon as you get off the apartment building, there are mails around the corner because it is profitable, and in some village we remove it or a larger municipality in PPDS, on islands, in Zagora or anywhere because it is unprofitable. Then it's a wrong approach, it can't happen and that's what we have to say here. That's not a good criterion. Why don't 10 offices go away in Zagreb? Why not? Always somewhere else. That is not, profitability must not be the only criterion for the removal of postal offices and that management must hear the same as it has to agree with the workers to know who is telling the truth and counterpart Rilje said that perhaps this House should be given some kind of report. This is how we manage. We should be given, because as the union says, not to be, that it's not a problem in the right wheel, it's a problem in the left ox. That's what we're talking about here today. The administration one thing, the unions the other, and the problems both unite them within that public company. And that's why it's a good thing we sent some messages from this house.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62013	Thank you. Answer, colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62014	Thank you very much. I see that you stick to the ancient Sanader "is not as strong as Zagreb, but as strong as its edges are". I hope that in the second part of Sanader's action you are not so consistent or consensual. In fact, it is good to discuss this problem here at the Parliament and it is a rare opportunity for us to discuss it, and Dalmatinska says a folk saying knows for sure Babic that man and donkeys are smarter than man himself. So, we here all together may be able to provide certain ideas, certain ways to help our Croatian mail fix it. And it would be good if we had more debates like this. There, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62015	Thank you. This concludes the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. We continue with the final, thanking Deputy Minister Mr. Antesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62016	Final proposal of the Law amending the Law on postal services, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 540. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The law was passed unanimously with 102 votes.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62017	We continue with - Final bill amending and supplementing the Law on the execution of prison sentences, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 541. The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Rules of Procedure unites the first and second readings, and amendments can be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on Justice. You received the reports at the session. With us is Deputy Minister Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, introductoryly. Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62018	Thank you very much. Honorable MPs and MPs. This isn't a major change. Intervention is proposed in 20 articles of the existing nearly 200. The need to adapt this law is the result of a comprehensive amendment to the provisions of criminal proceedings. In view of the amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act, and the basis of the Constitutional Court decision of 19 July 2012 does not only amend the Criminal Procedure Act but also amends all other laws in which criminal proceedings are touched, as well as the Penal Code. Since the Constitutional Court's decision provided for a deadline for the entry into force of this new concept of criminal proceedings on 15 December 2013. For this reason an emergency procedure for this law is foreseen. A new, new criminal procedure leaves the distinction between a reduced and a regular procedure. We now have a unique criminal treatment and, in that sense, the Penal Code of Penalty in the part in which it called for the difference of conduct, or for the shortened procedure, is changing, so this difference in conduct is abandoned in order to comply with the new Criminal Procedure Act. Also, the existing Penal Code includes a certain part of the treatment of the exclusion of biological material and the imposition of DNA analysis, so the process of taking it, as stored, is no longer part of the Prison Penalty Act, but is now part of the Criminal Procedure Act, and in that part of the provision was to be deleted. In addition to that harmonisation, the law on the system of state administration and the Law on the establishment and division of the Ministry and other central authorities in matters of jurisdiction, as regards the hierarchical structure in the affairs of the execution of prison and supervision. And that's over the work of the penitentiary, the prison, the diagnostics center, and the Education Center, which are involved in the execution of the prison sentence. The persons working in the criminal system are actually civil servants, and they are subject to the Law on civil servants, and because of the need for this law to be uniformly applied to all civil servants, we have made adjustments to the uniform structure and in this part of the law in relation to officials and official relations for persons working in the area of execution of prison sentences. And finally, in the end, we did a harmonisation on the matter of the amount of severance. Since the severance is regulated by the collective contract for civil servants and subsistence persons, it should be determined in the same way uniformly in this law. These are the interventions we have proposed with this proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62019	Thank you. Does anyone, on behalf of the committee reporter, want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club Mladen Novak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62020	Your Honor, Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister. I have to admit, by reading this bill, I came across something I've never seen before in my life. The proposer proposes the bill further aligns the law with the provisions of the collective agreement. Well, I guess nobody's ever done this before, aligning the law with the provisions of a collective contract. But I like the idea. And I therefore suggest that you transfer Minister Mrsić to write in the provisions of the Labour Act that he is in line with a collective contract, let's say, on the Croatian Railways, Croatia's electricity industry, or we will find an even more favourable one. This sort of thing is totally incomprehensible in terms of law-making. In addition, I must add that it is a reduction from 5 to 3 budget bases, so I do not see the need to go out so much to meet the unions, to adapt the law to a collective contract and reduce their rights. Let them be what they deserve, and I suggest that an existing solution be left to them. I have been warned by colleagues working in the field who are doing this part of the job that it is still a matter of law enforcement officers and that they are working under special working conditions, that they are working under difficult conditions and that they are going into retirement under special regulations, and therefore it is not correct to apply the provisions to them as to other civil servants. Otherwise, the situation in this system here's saying a colleague delivered it to me one among other things in the beginning of December expiring leasing for vehicles so now it will be that sooner they have nothing to do with, they have no vehicles to transport to hospital institutions, to courts, simply that part will be left to their ingenuity to solve it as they themselves know it. It threatens to block the supply of electricity, water, telephone services and so forth. In other words, people in the system say the situation is never worse. But they're not the exceptions, so we have to be honest, so let's just say that whatever segment we've been talking about in these last three months that we've only realized everywhere that the situation is never worse. The colleagues cited this, that is, the whole team of people who wrote that they hoped that this savings that would result from their reductions in severances would help the state budget and propose to abolish both prison managers and the penitentiary use of official vehicles at 24 hours a day. I think this other part has far more logic than we've heard before. They also mention the Centre for Education, which was established at the end of the last century and only spends budgets on them, and it would be good if they had the authority to analyse the work of the same person and to publish these results so that the rest of us can find out what it is. And among other things, they mention that the centre has not conducted a test by prison officials on knowing the rules of the same centre's obligation. They mention the obligation to deliver official clothing, but they also cite major problems, and among other things, I believe in what we have been delivered that only Lipovic, Karlovac, Turopolje and Varazdin will be supplied with new official clothes while for others there is obviously no present. They mention another interesting piece of information that I have to admit now I've just received it so little that I don't say unprepared, but in their opinion, the citizens of the Republic of Croatia would be appalled by the number if they knew how much it cost every citizen who doesn't want to pay a fine, so they're wasting electricity, water, food all that goes and they haven't yet paid what they had to in the state budget. Since I really got this a few minutes before the start I can't say that I noticed anything else but I appeal to the Deputy Minister and I ask you nicely to transfer this idea to solve the problem, transfer to Minister Mrsic and ask him to transfer this Labour Act to the provisions of a collective contract, so that's what the lady here says, ma'am, let's say, to transfer the provisions of the collective office from any public firm here we leave to him to choose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62021	Thank you, too. Under the programme today, certain laws from Minister Mrsic's jurisdiction should be discussed, so you will have the opportunity. Gold shower replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62022	My colleague Novak, you are surprised that some law regulates a greater right of severance than in collective agreements, I am not surprised because I know the course of negotiations that was about collective agreements that were valued, that unions were told that collective agreements would be cancelled and that they would be left without all rights, and clearly if you were left without all rights and you only came down to the law and then the law is changing and in this case there is this paradox that we are changing the law because we are going to bring the law into line with the collective agreement is that social partners have agreed and they have agreed less rights, so now we have to install these smaller rights in the law. The social partners did not agree in social dialogue but were valued.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62023	Thank you. Hey, buddy Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62024	Thank you very much. Well, frankly, I'm surprised that in some law it can say that there is more, that greater rights are exercised by workers or employees than in a collective contract because otherwise the Labour Act provides for a minimum, collective contracts are something that should be upgraded and negotiated through them more rights for workers. But also if a collective contract prescribes fewer rights than those prescribed by a certain law or the Labour Act, what is considered to be more favourable to the worker shall apply. Now I have to admit that this is my first case and I've never heard of any case that states that the law goes in line with the collective agreement. It's like buying furniture so then you go build a house and the door you'll be buying according to the gauge furniture, so it never worked.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62025	Otherwise, fellow Novak architects say, pick the furniture, then let's go gbarite houses to work. Replica Marija Lugarić, here are your colleagues.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62026	Dear colleague Novak, I tried to understand during your debate what your club's position is and I'm glad you finally admitted that you didn't actually read it and I'd like you to state your position. However, I have reported primarily to replicate this part of you to first hear and see that the law adapts to a collective contract. I've been here and in the past term and some others, and we've, for example, been a whole set of education laws because I've been following more closely with collective agreements. That's when I said about these laws, and now I think about this one, severance is a matter of agreement between employers and workers or trade unions, and that's the legal thing to talk about a collective contract, and that's no place in the law either in this way. I disagree. It's just silly to me that the rights that the Labour Law requires to be spoken in a collective contract are in law at all. Tomorrow, a different collective agreement will be agreed and we will change the law again. What's definitely the worst situation is that we have two different kinds of rights about one. It was for us and it brought... That's the first one. [[You can't hear the speaker.]] Secondly, you said like when you read this union memo instead of your club's point of view, you said that one of the problems that points out vehicle licking, I'm going to remind you that the government in November has made public procurement for the purchase of motor vehicles through an operational lease. You then severely criticised the decision, among other things referring to vehicles for the judicial police. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62027	Hey, buddy Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62028	This is not about the same vehicles, so do not knowingly deceive the word. ... This is below the level but well, a matter of general culture and home education so I don't mean that part of the comment. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] He's referring to a colleague of yours as well. As far as the collective agreement is concerned, what you're telling me is inside. So I mentioned it in there. You mention it, it shouldn't be written in law, but it says so. I suggest you submit an amendment and say it's not the place in the law. In that case, there is no place for a replica menu, but to write an amendment, you are members of the same Kukuriku coalition, please contact the ministry and determine that this should not be part of the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62029	Thank you. And Ivan Shantek the replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62030	Thank you. Dear colleague Novak, you said you hadn't studied this material in detail that you discussed. But you hit the bottom of that whole story. In fact, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the execution of prison sentences has changed twice this year. During the first amendment and supplementation sometime in the spring of this year, the minister of justice here said there was a lack of money in the prison system, however, that this was addressed by the prison administrator's extraordinary efforts. But in the fall of this year, and now the problems of the prison system are being solved in a way that the over-indebted managers resolve themselves, and then a new manager comes in and then has the credibility to be in charge of all these things that you've been talking about. As far as the vehicle is concerned, it is indeed a big problem and a lot of judicial police activities are concerned, as far as the remote courts throughout Croatia are concerned, as well as Sanitary transportation, i.e. to the prison hospital in Zagreb. So again, we get down to that same story, which is that there is a lack of money in the prison system and there is over 100 million kuna missing, only in the budget is the root cause of all the problems that arise there.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62031	Thank you. Hey, buddy Novak's answer.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62032	Comrade Shantek, you realized that I guessed the point of the problem, I didn't hit him, but was struck by a man who was employed for 23 years in that system. And since these people obviously don't know what they're talking about and they don't know that system and they're not aware of what's going on there, here's where they are now because I got the message that they're looking at right now and they're going to be driving in, they're not going to be in Missouri, but in what's going on in the Toyotas, it's just that these are the cars that we're making the last noise and now suddenly it turns out to be controversial about these problems.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62033	Are you done with the replica? Thank you. On behalf of HNS Representative Sonja König. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62034	Dear Vice President of our Parliament, dear deputy minister, colleague and colleague. For the first time, he spoke and debated with this law and was brought in 1999. And to date, so far it's been changed 12 times. So 12 times we've changed it to today, so far. And today we are replacing it as already respected Deputy Minister mentioned because of harmonising with the Law on Criminal Procedure, the Law on the System of State Administration and the Law on the Establishment and Circumstance of Ministrys and other central authorities of the State Administration. According to the Code of Criminal Procedure, as we remember recently, an abandoned distinction is between regular and shortened proceedings. A unique criminal procedure has been introduced which knows clearly envisaged and detailed exceptions in the treatment of perpetrators of serious criminal offences, so that damages to organised life in the community and easier criminal offences prescribed by the Penal Code are less than 5 years in prison. And that is why it is necessary to intervene in two places in the text of the law on the execution of prison sentences as the applicant mentions it. It also amended the Law on the Establishment and Fraction of the Ministrys and other central authorities of the state administration, and the provisions of this law affect the addition of some of the articles of this law that we are now discussing. In particular, the Ministry of Justice shall carry out administrative and other tasks relating to the enforcement of criminal and criminal sanctions resulting in the administration of the prison system being not an independent body of the state administration but a administrative organisation in the membership of the Ministry of Justice. And that is why 19 articles add or replace the words "prison system management" with "jurisdictional ministry". And that's with two more, two more or three compliances concerning the Law on the System of State Administration that. It is therefore exclusively about compliance with the laws already adopted and against which the HNS Club of course has no objection, no objections, or we support the proposed amendments and additions of the Penal Code. But while we are already talking about the execution of the prison sentence, most of them are some association, I guess, overcrowding of prisons and some, perhaps, the European Court of Human Rights rulings related to prison treatment. Just recently, the European Court of Human Rights verdicts have been presented at the University of Zagreb, which by the end of 2012 brought 53 rulings against Croatia in criminal cases. In as many as 44 convictions, the court found that Croatia committed one or more injuries, which is a high percentage of the convictions. Even 34 convictions referred to criminal proceedings and 6 to the prison system. We know that international contracts, our Constitution and this law that we are now discussing inmates enjoy the protection of fundamental rights. I will not, in particular, list what the rights of the prisoners are, and I will not particularly explain here that by taking away the right to freedom and to move which is the basis of a prison sentence, there can be no basis for violating other human rights. We are not in this, in these losses of judgments before the European Court of Human Rights, the only country and, therefore, the Council of Europe has recommended that the provision of additional accommodation facilities cannot in itself be a lasting solution to the problem of overcrowding, but that the only sustainable way to control overcrowding is to adopt a policy aimed at limiting the number of persons sent to prison, or to design and other measures, and certainly a probationary system. We have introduced this system in Croatia relatively recently, we have recently passed the Law on probation but every other system depends, of course, not only on its introduction into legislation but on its real implementation. Since this system is relatively new, as I said in our country, we expect the respected deputy ministers of your report, that is, the Ministry's report on the implementation of the probationary system, which is necessary to implement evaluation measures. If it is to judge by the information of those who are being tried, this system is being well implemented, of course there is always room for progress but we will wait for the respected deputy ministers of your report to confirm it, and by then as I said we accept in the HNS club the amendments and additions of the law that we are talking about today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62035	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club Ivan Shantek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62036	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Respected deputy minister, respected colleagues and colleagues. Dear colleagues, I know well that the Penal Code was passed in 1999, and I had the opportunity to read that first version and several others. But I was talking about these amendments and additions to the laws that were on the 12th row and were in the spring of this year and then I asked the minister one simple question, is this policy that goes towards the prison system actually a prelude to privatising the prison system because the prisons are increasingly in charge, the penitentiary also, and the role of the central state office is strengthened and its supervisory role. In these latest changes and additions that are ahead of us, besides everything that has been said so far, we see that a special importance is given to the Centre for Diagnostics in Zagreb. So the Centre for Diagnostics in Zagreb as a special establishment unit in the Administration of the Prison System performs the tasks of medical, social, psychological, pedagogical, criminological processing of prisoners for the purpose of their classification of the adoption of an orientational programme for the execution of prison sentences and the proposal of a criminal body in which the prisoner will maintain a prison sentence. It's quite clear, and that's his role so far. However, we can see that the Center for Diagnostics is rising to a higher organisational level, it is now becoming ranked and with penitentiary facilities, prisons and education centres, and a higher organisational level in practice means increasing the scope of work, means increasing the number of perpetrators, ensuring adequate working conditions, their work, etc. As far as I know, the Center for Diagnostics in Zagreb is located in the prison area in Zagreb, and I can see from this proposal that the amendments and addition of the law will continue to be in that space, so there will be no place else that makes sense. However, I am obliged to remind here that the right area of the prison in Zagreb, as well as the Osijek prison, are an illustrative example of the overcrowding of the prison system. I must remind myself again of the decision of the 2009 Constitutional Court, which requires the Government to adapt within an appropriate period, so not for more than 5 years the capacity of the Prison in Zagreb to the needs of the accommodation of persons deprived of liberty. Here's the time, 2013 is finally, I don't see that the prison building in Zagreb has been built up to reduce overcrowding in prisons, but it would probably be in such a way that the building was built up and improved the working conditions of employees as well as employees of the Diagnostics Centre. I must remind again that this year we have had a report on a national preventive mechanism where the attorney general also requested that certain measures be taken precisely in the context of reducing this number of lawsuits to European courts, but we also saw that none of it was there. The Action Plan for the improvement of the prison system in 2009-2014 was also adopted, and this action plan envisioned the construction of a prison facility in Glina for 376 prisoners, the construction of a new penitentiary and prison in Sibenik for 1270 prisoners, and the training of special knowledge and skills officers required for their work. What you would like is specifically to be looked at, which is what counterpart Novak was talking about, and this applies to Article 12. The law, which reads: Article 30(8) of the Law: the last five salaries of the accounts are replaced by the words: three budget bases, and the reasoning states that the provisions on the amount of compensation for civil servants and subsistence who retire with the provisions of the applicable collective contract for civil servants and subsistence are further harmonised, the "National Journal" No. 104/213. Here is exactly this Article 12, which is why the HDZ Club will be abstentioned on the vote of this law because the HDZ Club considers it to be permanently incorporated into the collective contract law under Article 124 of the collective agreement which is concluded for a certain time. So it's not a full collective contract where they have certain rights, it's just an article that says that those officers and tenants who retire to severance are reduced from five last salaries to three budget bases. I will once again say that the HDZ Club will be restrained in voting on these amendments and amendments to the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62037	Thank you, too. On behalf of the SDP club Ingrid Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62038	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club supports amendments and additions to the Prison Penalty Act. Perhaps in the beginning I should repeat what everyone has already said about the main reasons for once again being brought to the attention of many amendments and additions to the Penal Code. As you know, the latest amendments to the Criminal Procedure Act require us to amend the Penal Code because different treatments were also related to a different type of procedure. So, now that we have a single criminal procedure, these are also norms in this law that need to be brought in line with the CAP. Then, as has already been said in terms of collection, storage, storage of biological material, DNA analysis. So, that was a good part of here planned. Now all of this is being transferred to the Code of Criminal Procedure. Likewise, this administrative section is absolutely highlighted as being the Department of the Prison System, which we may have done in the police might have been one before, earlier parallel to the principalship. But it's not an independent body of the state administration, an administrative organization within the Justice Department. So these are these basic changes. However, speaking of the execution of a prison sentence may already be, it is already Mr. Minister on one of the boards, the Justice Committee and indicated that we could get a new one very quickly, precisely because of these frequent amendments to a new Penal Code. But this is certainly a chance for us to mention here, notes and given this debate here that was new. So, we've introduced it now already has more than 10 years... our penal system, that a judge would appear, which by then did not cause one new one, and for the consequences there is one new justice in the execution and the very sentence of prison not to be subject to more administration, but to enjoy both prisoners in this regard and judicial oversight of the treatment of them in the penitentiary or in prison. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] That's one thing. The second thing, which we have already forgotten, is that we should then point out what happened last from 2004 to 2011. In 2002 or the third year, we introduced soul-care to our prisons, penitentiary. What we had to do with the Vatican was, because until then, it was easy to sign, but that left a dead letter on paper. It was done by a coalition that is now in power. So 10, 12 years ago. What have we had lately? Or 2004 to 2011? We had it that those places that were in prisons, the penitentiary used to care, for religious rituals were turned into dormitory. Those living rooms that served communication and education have also been turned into dormitory. For what? Because the wrong criminal policy that we had set out, which has been implemented under the Penal Code, which has been implemented since 2004. Because as we know from 2003, the novel with things far different has led to atrophied our system from the beginning to the end of the penal system. The state of affairs was that, when the vacancy attorney, there was no strength at the time, there was no union that would have had the strength at the time of Sanader's authority to say what was going on in the prison system. There was no such freedom, you didn't get such memos, but he did it at the time that he had the only spine to say it was a public defender who looked into every room, every cell in the prison and in the penitentiary. He determined the disastrous things, where the urine from one bed dripped down on an immobilized person. Young and old, healthy and sick were together, fierce criminals and those who were random, who only first found themselves in the system. This was the result of such an act and was found by a public defender. That's what we've had reports like this that have been shaken. This is an earthquake reading that needs to be read today and see how in the last two years the system has been significantly improved with small funds with a completely different logic. And what happened? The Penal Code has changed. Nobody's even talking about the flood of drug users anymore. Well, she's dropping. And you saw reports not only of the prison system but also of the police report where we have a decline in drug users and where we have become more effective precisely in curbing those difficult forms of drug abuse. There are no more people like that in our prisons and other penal institutions. So they got rid of the capacity on one side. On the other hand, the results are already being obtained by the trial that has been worth mentioning here. So, just by amending the Penal Code but also by introducing new institutes that many Western countries have had for many years. So, we have news today a few days ago, that's all of our media as one rarity, that's a rarity even in countries and in other EU countries that one Netherlands closes down because it lays big funds in prevention programmes. So that's what's coming to us and closing 19 prisons. But he says because of the cost reduction now the prisoners will no longer be alone in the cell. And also because of the cost reduction, so for one Netherlands to shut down 12 prisons, she still has expensive prisoners. And she sees some other parallel systems. So how to be effective, how to make that one retribution special and general prevention is carried out against a convicted person and that the state costs as little as possible. So the size and use of house arrests is increasing. So, all these measures are safe that the government is on track through the Ministry of Justice, we support this and here is once again support for this and a note that the SDP club will support these amendments and additions to the Penal Code.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62039	Thank you. We have one replica. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62040	Yeah, I don't have a stick, so I raised my hand. Dear Mr. Vice President, I've listened to you all very carefully and you haven't said what you haven't said, I think everything you've said is true. Normally, if you've reduced the number of prisoners based on the decriminalization of drugs, you've reduced the number of prisoners in such a tight space and you've freed the corridors and churches and so on. It's possible there's been an improvement. That's what you're boasting that you did it. Well, I want to brag... [[The speaker's off the mic.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62041	A microphone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62042	'90s. Decriminalized political delinquency, political action was no longer punishable, so there were also missing political prisoners from prison and there were more places then and was more comfortable then for the rest of the prisoners. So we're 1 to 1 now. Now I don't know what's more valuable or that you've decriminalized drugs or that we've abolished a political and verbal delinquent.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62043	Thank you. Answer from my colleague Antičević. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62044	I think a colleague is a minor problem, but that seems to be happening lately, which crimes or crimes have been released from custody or from prison in one way or another. There's still a problem who's not there and it's supposed to be. But I don't think that's the time for this debate right now. However, what remains for us here and for this occasion to be particularly clear about what these conditions are. Because you didn't, you didn't observe it, but exactly allowing more space is being carried out, giving the possibility to implement the purpose of punishment. So, and what has already been mentioned here is that no fundamental rights of prisoners are being violated. Because once the state locked the door, so she locked it, it wasn't her obligations to that person that ended it, it was the new ones. So it should not be hidden here that in recent years a whole series of verdicts and where Croatia has lost where it has to take certain measures of better accommodation and ensuring a certain living space, it is all so defined by international conventions, how many squares must one prisoner have. So here it was also mentioned how much measure, the action plans were. However, no funds were provided and persistently insisted on the wrong criminal justice policy which could not then have led to this result. Contemporary means of relations with convicts were not used to hence use the Institute of Prosecution, House Detainment, although we had already had some indications in the CAP but were not provided with the means to improve these measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62045	Thank you, too. And on behalf of the HDSSB Representatives' Club Boro Grubisic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62046	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam Deputy Minister. A few years ago, I tried here for my neighborhood from which I came, and there was a plan for the former government to build a prison in view of the number of prisoners and the overcrowding of the prison system somewhere in the eastern part of Brod-Posavina County. Prison as well as an economic unit in which to find jobs of 200, 300 people, as clearly as in some way and the help of the state of Brod-Posavina County, but now, according to the SDP representative on behalf of the SDP club, I would like to say, perhaps by introducing new methods of maintenance of punishment, starting from probation, and by introducing what will be only in turn, therefore prevention programmes will not need additional prison facilities in the Republic of Croatia. Just like you said in Holland. Oh, God, that's the way it is. This legislative proposal on the execution of a prison sentence speaks of this, with the final proposal for a law, that the difference between a regular and a shortened procedure has been abandoned, so whatever that means. According to that final proposal, a single criminal procedure is introduced which knows clearly the intended and detailed exceptions in the treatment of perpetrators of serious criminal offences. They are one that damages organised life in the community and easier crimes, crimes for which fines are prescribed in the Penal Code or prison sentences for up to 5 years. Furthermore, these amendments also mention the diagnostics centre and that, through its assistant minister, the Ministry of Justice is carrying out administrative and other tasks relating to the maintenance of criminal and criminal sanctions resulting in the administration of the prison system not being an independent body of the state administration but an administrative organisation within the justice ministry. So it's all acceptable and reasonable. When we talk about the Centre for Diagnostics in Zagreb as a special establishment unit in the prison system administration, therefore it performs the tasks of medical, social, psychological, pedagogical, criminological processing of prisoners for the purpose of their classification, proposing the adoption of an orientational programme for the execution of prison sentences and proposing a criminal offence in which the prisoner will execute the prison sentence. And there is also a centre for education as a special establishment unit in the prison system administration that conducts a permanent professional training of prison workers, so what was once liked to be said as lifelong learning. In Article 7 of this Legislative Proposal, the Director of the Administration of the Prison System shall be replaced by the words of the Minister responsible for the affairs of the judiciary or in paragraph 3 of the Director of the Administration of the Prison System shall be replaced by the words of the Assistant Minister responsible for the prison system and all of this shall be accepted in addition to what is written in Article 12 and shall refer to Article 30 that, when a person leaves for retirement, he or she shall have a severance from the last five salaries to the account of those salaries, and shall be replaced by the words of the three budgetary bases. Now, in an explanation or explanation of this article, it states that Article 30(8) of the last five salaries replaces the words of the three budgetary bases, while the word of the calculated ones is deleted, in which the rights in question are in conformity with the rights recognised in Article 51 of the collective contract for civil servants and subsistences, under which the official and the undersigned who retires shall be entitled to compensation in the amount of three budgetary bases, which is, in fact, less than what was provided for, and that is five salaries. To talk about the weight of work, about the specificities of work, so people in the prison system think it's too high. Not only is it superfluous because we all know it because there's a little of us, so I don't really have anyone to talk about it, but I don't think they deserve it. Here is today the measure that pensions of more than five thousand or 184 thousand that are accounted for by special regulations will be reduced by 10%, according to Tadic, that I am a teacher or that I am a government then I would show by my own personal example how it is being saved, so as a government, I would suggest a reduction of government salaries, government officials and state administrations by 10%, and then I would also take off my pensions even though it says ten days ago, Prime Minister Milanovic is the last line of defense, the last line of defense. Unfortunately, here we have it's not the last line of defense of government officials' salary but what they are is this one I don't know if it's over five thousand or what pensions news is already a little vague. Since here are the cuts and cuts and Article 12. So the rights of those who are going to retire, the rights of severance from five to three accounting bases, with five salaries on three accounting bases despite all the positive assessments that this law prescribes, I think we will be restrained. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62047	Thank you, too. We have a replica of Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62048	Thank you, Vice President. counterpart Grubisic, you mentioned one part that the government should first reduce certain salaries to its officials and officials and only then go to a reduction in the salaries of ordinary workers, especially those who work in the prison system for a responsible part of the job. I just want to remind you, Croatian Labourers let the law on state officials be amended in the fourth month of the initiative in a way that reduces wages and counting on the first thing we need to do and then reduce certain salaries to ordinary workers and ordinary workers who work, perform their jobs and their tasks. But not this government is doing the opposite, first it takes everyone else, first it takes wherever it can and what it can, and this instance it's the same thing that when a collective contract has agreed on a smaller salary, then we have to change it in this law and cut the severances from five to three, we can't expect that there will be any increase and some income because this government has chosen to take wherever it can be.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62049	Thank you. The answer of my colleague Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62050	A fellow Tušak, a fish smells like a head but unfortunately it's cut from a tail. So, what's a role model of socialist,... was from France the first month he came to power that he cut the salaries of state officials. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Sold out by the government's fleet said those headed by state-owned companies, such as HAC, HEP, mail, etc. I can't use official vehicles, but given the high salary management to use their own, personal. Unfortunately, this government, which has not earned a passing grade for 2 years of working on all indicators, which has brought Croatia almost, I would say, took further as it went, has further deepened the crisis and led to debt slavery, but has not earned half the salary. But here, for example, she could have said that we were working poorly, we didn't get Croatia out, we didn't provide what was expected of us, we didn't meet Plan 21, we did our own plan, so we're going to punish ourselves, self-pity 10% for, but there's nothing close to it, they don't even think about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62051	And the final word on behalf of the Government, Deputy Minister Mrs. Kunst.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62052	Thank you very much, thank you for your discussion. Now, if you'll excuse me, I'm just going to look back on this question of who earned the salary, the colleagues who worked in the prison system certainly earned their salary, and there's no dispute. And their work is extremely difficult and the level of responsibility and what they face every day deserves certainly much more of what at this point can be ensured for their rights given the state budget as it is today. But as far as severance is concerned, and we were of course aware in proposing this amendment that it would cause, of course, a negative reaction because the rights are shrinking, we also held meetings with the unions, or all forms of union association operating in the area of our prison system. But not only that, but also in conversation and communication with colleagues working in that system and all in the sense that what is collectively negotiated. The question is, what exactly have we collectively negotiated if there are laws that regulate certain matter in a different way? So why collective bargaining if there are one, two, five laws that regulate labour rights in a different way at law level? That's a really big question, then, who's here to negotiate? That's what you'd be able to talk about. In any case, the collective contract has secured the severance of the amount in which it has been provided by both civil servants and subsistences, and also by the head of the prison system, they actually fall under the principle of equality in those categories. It should be kept in mind and do not forget that workers or employees of the prison system are users of additions to their salary and quite an addition, of course they can always be relatively understood always to be said to be too little. And also users of the benefits of a work internship. In relation to the question of positioning these special centres, the diagnostics centre or the education centre is not true that there is a different level of their structure. They are not raised to a higher level, as it is incorrectly said here, but are merely indicated as a special structure unit where the question can be asked whether such an arrangement falls under this law at all but we hold that because this law regulates the execution of the law, so all those jobs and all those bodies doing these jobs are arranged for the prison to be carried out. Thus, the diagnostic centres which directs the convicts, after the power of his decision on punishment, to the institution that is most suitable for his resociation. And that's the purpose of the diagnostics center. Here we talked, of course, about the judgments before the European Court of Justice and the instructions of the Council of Europe. It is true that a reduction in the number of prisoners cannot be carried out by a single measure, but it is a large complex of activities, that is, a policy aimed at limiting the number of prisoners. And as the Council of Europe has recommended, and this ministry is intensively dealing with this set of amendments not only to criminal procedural legislation but also to criminal materiality. It is not only a trial but also a matter of arrangements of the entire system and criminal policy as a whole, and this procedure is not, of course, simple. But we are, of course, working on a trial report and in general on a report on the state of the prisons that will show that slowly but certainly in these conditions, in which the financial situation is very poor, they are still achieving shifts because the system is structured differently. If we are talking about building a prison, I will repeat and you know very well the state of the budget as it is, I can only regret to say that I am sorry that the local community did not recognise the opportunities that gave it a pre-accession period to get out of the funds when it was possible or when it should have not found solutions but to re-absorbed it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62053	We're moving on to replicas. First respected colleague Ingrid-Anticevic-Marinović. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62054	Your Honor, Madam Representative, you've pointed out but perhaps not even clear enough to make it clear to these carers. For years, she has insisted on allowing prison guards as scientific guards and as the most stressful profession to be added to their salaries. It existed for years but was only introduced in 2002 and '03. And all this time, it's up to a maximum of 30%. Many don't even know that because even before the decision on the 30% supplement was made, a new union was formed that didn't even know what the union was doing in cooperation with the ministry, so he suggested, we would suggest that 15% increase in prison guards. So we gave them a nice answer it won't be because we already approved it at 30%. So much for the many souls that are now coming forward. You have every honor that in these difficult times you have not abolished and therefore improve as much as possible in various ways and with increased care and care and safeguarding the stability of the prison system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62055	Will you answer? No, I don't. Second replica Mladen Novak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62056	Thank you very much. Dear Deputy Minister, I'm not going since 2002 and '03. One year, I'll talk about this proposal that's in front of us on the table. ... I kept my mouth shut while you were talking, so I'm asking you nicely to find so much patience, so... [[You can't hear the intruder.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62057	My colleagues Ingrid Antičević-Marinović, so don't let me warn you now. Come on, keep going.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62058	We're talking about a severance reduction, and I was talking about it, and no pay hikes, no pay impact, I wasn't talking about any of that, I was talking about a severance reduction. You said who was negotiating, no matter what he negotiated, you're depriving them of their right now. I don't want to get into union work, I don't care what they've negotiated, but it's obvious that this law reduces the right to severance or reduces the severance of all those legal guards that you yourself have commended here that it's a difficult job, which we all agree on, that it's a difficult job, responsible, special working conditions. It's all beautiful and beautiful. And then you said pay additions, they have salary supplements that aren't exactly negligible. As if they were given them as charity, they were given because they deserved them. You can't mention that right now but be careful they get extras on pay. They get it because someone's determined that they need to get such a salary supplement. You're chasing severances and wages, and it has nothing to do with each other. And give me more, answer the word, and go to the pay phone, and I have not seen you down there, which you keep throwing away. And as for the benefits of a job, so why don't you sit in the same government as Mr. Mrssic, so don't you know that it's the years of life that matter. That internship doesn't mean anything to him right now, but nothing at all. 65 years of life, and then we can talk, and he's got the privilege of an underprivileged job internship really means a lot to him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62059	Third replica, Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62060	Thank you very much. The debate concluded that in 2002 and 2003 a 30% supplement was introduced on working conditions and on such a difficult and stressful job, but it has not been abolished since 2003 during the rule of another government, so that's what's left. But now this severance reduction turns out to be like when a cow milks and then kicks and spills all the milk right, it's not all but part of it, it's a good part. But I would like to talk about what I said earlier, although it does not belong to this topic, which is that we do not actually have a collective agreement, nor does the government sign collective agreements, and then the successes and failures of the government are neither possible nor only the government but also the mayor, the mayor, the mayor, we have no measures other than choices. Well, then there's talk of some sort of crawling coup, etc., I guess it's people on their knees, and then they're crawling, they're all on their knees, they're crawling, and they're making a coup.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62061	I'm closing the debate. We will vote on the text of the law when the conditions are met. I thank the deputies for their participation. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Penal Code, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZ No. 541, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment was submitted by the Legislative Committee. I ask Mrs Sandra Artuković-Kunšt, Deputy Minister of Justice to declare the proposed amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 18
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62063	Mr. Vice President, honourable MPs and MPs. The Government accepts the amendment in the amended form as follows: in Article 18, paragraphs 2 and 3, the indents are replaced by words sub-paragraphs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62064	The president of the board.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62065	I accept and withdraw the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62066	No, no, the amendment has been accepted in this changed form. I thank the deputy. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. The law was passed by 78 votes to six against and 17 abstentions. We move to the next item of the agenda, that is - Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on Noise Protection, with the final proposal of the law, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 543 The legislator is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Health and Social Policy. You received the reports at the session. Does the proposing representative want to further explain the proposal? Obviously, yes. Deputy Minister of Health Marian Cesarik, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62068	Thank you very much. In the light of the changes made to the Noise Protection Act, the aim of the correct and complete transposition of Directive 202/49 EC on the assessment and management of noises of the environment has been set out, and in the light of the correct interpretation and definition of the obligor of the production of strategic maps of noise and action plans. The current Act on noise protection Article 7(1) and (2) provides for the obligation to draw up strategic noise maps and action plans for cities with more than 250 000 inhabitants, the main road with more than 6 million passages per year, the main railways with more than 60 000 train crossings per year and the main airport with more than 50,000 operations or aircraft operations per year. Those obligations have been transposed by Article 7(1). It's a directive. The Ministry of Health interpreted the directive during the drafting of the rules in such a way that the obligation applicable to the first round of mapping, so for 2007, also applies to the second round of 2012 because the directive does not explicitly state anywhere that the obligation to map for 2012 refers to criteria for populated areas above 100,000 inhabitants, the main roads with more than 3 million vehicle passes per year, the main railways from more than 30 000 vehicles of passages per year and to major airports with more than 50,000 aircraft operations per year. During the preparation of the current amendments and additions, the Ministry of Health on several occasions requested interpretation of the provisions of Article 7(1) and (2) of the European Commission for the sake of proper transposition. However, at the time of the amendments and the addition of that law, we were given the European Commission's interpretation that the criteria set out in the applicable bond law apply only to the first implementation round of the directive, i.e. for the first round of mapping which ended in 2007. The same interpretation states that for the implementation step, i.e. for the second round of mapping and all of the following applies to reporting obligations for the following obligors: populated areas with more than 100 000 inhabitants, main roads with more than 3 million vehicle passages per year, main railways with more than 30 000 passes per year and for major airports with more than 50,000 air operations per year. Such obligation is laid down in Article 7(2) in conjunction with Article 3(3) of the K, N, O and P. Therefore, at the time of the entry into force of the current amendments and the addition of the laws, the criteria for the making of strategic maps of noise and action plans have been wrongly laid down, and thus the obligation to supply the established strategic maps of noise and action plans of the Republic of Croatia to the European Commission has been questioned in view of the accuracy of the data to be supplied to the Commission. The correct transposition of Directive 2002/49EC on the assessment and management of noise from the environment is important because the Directive and the law transposing it for the Republic of Croatia as a Member State prescribes the obligation to deliver developed strategic maps of noise and action plans within the exact deadlines set every five years. How the Republic of Croatia became a full member of the EU during the middle of the second round... It has therefore become a bond of data delivery within the deadlines applicable to the second round, i.e. it has become mandatory to send data on the draft action plans for applicants prescribed by the new, these new amendments and additions by 18 January 2014. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In line with the above, it is of exceptional interest that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Noise Protection Act should be put into effect as soon as possible and enter into force so that the Republic of Croatia does not risk the launch of restrictive measures due to the failure to comply with the obligations laid down by the Directive and because of the mistransposition of European legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62069	Thank you. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club - the parties of work will speak for the respected Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62070	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, Deputy Minister, colleagues and fellow MPs. So one dilemma that kind of encouraged me why I appeared on behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – the party working for this debate is that we had a discussion about this law in 4 months. We are in 4 months, the reason was the harmonisation of legislation with the EU and we have changed the law by emergency procedure. And look now, the provisions that we have then changed in the law are now taking them back to what we have been harmonising with EU legislation. So now I'm not really smart anymore, what does that mean? How this government ends up working. We sometimes get laws, pass first, second reading, debates, and then the government after that 10 amendments gave on that same bill that it sent. In this case, it's purely about the technical changes that happened in a way that we're going back to something that was before and something that we've changed this law. That's why it's crazy to talk about the law in the first place, because then it was a discussion, we're talking about noise. The noise is a day-to-day stress factor and it affects man and man's abilities but the more noise is here on Mark's square. There was noise today and there was more noise. So, it's getting more dissatisfaction. I think it would already be final and responsible and smart to get serious, to start talking about some laws seriously, to respect certain arguments. Because as much as I remember in the debates at the time, it was warned that certain changes occurred in a populated area with 250 000, with 100,000 increasing settlements to 250,000 inhabitants, and this part of the passage was twice as small as was proposed to increase the law. Clearly, when it comes to noise, noise is a serious problem. According to some data he has, and especially when it comes to the city of Zagreb, there are certain surveys where there are said to be between 16 and 20 years of age, young people show alarming results primarily because of the noise, which is the result of disco clubs, loud listening to music, firecrackers, rockets, and not to say what else, although directly this part of the law is not related to it, but it is talking about strategic maps and action plans that need to be done because the noise map is an integral part of the environmental information system in the Republic of Croatia and is a professional basis for making spatial plans. But if we don't take care of the noise, then we'll have more and more of those affected by some of the effects caused by the noise. The noise is strong and dangerous in those who work and are constantly exposed to certain materially above the average noise decibels and clearly all of this indicates their hearing damage. But there are other side effects that in part of these people cause, which is the other part that is irritability and certain other health problems. I will not go further on the law itself, because I primarily wanted to be in the name of the Croatian Labour Club – The parties of the work to turn to unseriousness and the irresponsibility of such a bill, thinking that this part of technical harmonisation is counting on that and sometimes it can be wrong and make a mistake, but I think there are already too many of these mistakes that are happening and within that warning that dissatisfaction among citizens is growing and there will be more noise here in Mark's square if you do not know someone who should be very much concerned about these citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62071	Thank you. We have a report of a colleague of Mirale Holly's.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62072	Given your colleagues that you mentioned a topic that is not directly mentioned in this proposal on amendments and additions to the Noise Protection Act, I will take this opportunity and relate to you and warn that there is one quite large illogicality in the applicable Noise Act. In fact, I am often referred to by citizens and citizens who live close to different plants that produce very much noise and often complain about the Sanitary Inspectorate. Sanitary inspection goes out in the field, and then what happens? It happens that an authorised laboratory is commissioned to carry out the measurement of that noise, but it happens in exactly the terms that the one ordering the research is actually agreed on, which is usually the owner of the plant. And of course the owner of that facility then adapts his noise level to his work processes during those legally prescribed criteria. And there's nothing going on about it, the citizens are still complaining. And that is why I believe that in principle such a company should order the state to spend on the cost of naturally the investor and that such checks go in periods when they do not expect to come there and then really measure the actual indicators of noise in some space and see if the citizens are right when they object or are wrong. Indeed, there are no minimum criteria to determine the actual situation, and indeed there are a very large number of such cases. Some of them are also in the vicinity of Zagreb. I've also asked counseling questions about this problem, so here I appeal to the Ministry of Health to consider amending the law and in that part.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62073	This replica matches Zlatko Tušak, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62074	Thank you. Coli Holy My colleague Holly, I'm sorry! [[- What's up, buddy?- No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] I wanted to tell my fellow vice president first, so I got this one confused. I'm sorry. I fully agree with you, the noise of individual plants has a major impact on people living nearby and clearly this is a problem. And knowing the pace of life that we live at, it leaves significant consequences to these people, and that is the question of irritability and some of the other symptoms that people have that are constantly exposed to noises. And God forbid that where he lives, there's a lot of noise, and there's a lot of noise in the workplace, so we can think about what kind of situation they're in. And I fully agree with you that the state and the competent ministry should be able to take into account both this and this particular area where there are more and more pronounced noises above or somewhere at the level of the borders and certain measures to reduce noise in that area. One more excuse of mine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62075	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Dujomir Marasovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62076	Dear Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. So here is the proposal for a law on amendments and supplementing the Law on Noise Protection with a final proposal. There's not much to talk about, I'm not going to use my entire law and Rules of Procedure in Parliament allowed time. This was as a colleague said in the 6th month, and now the thing has been brought to our real frameworks, so the cities that were mentioned earlier should bring the noise maps of 250 thousand inhabitants now have adjusted to normal, for Croatian conditions a real number of 100,000 inhabitants because only Zagreb has 250 thousand and more. There was a car flow on one road that needed to bring a noise protection ticket, on a road where 6 million vehicles passed annually. We don't have roads like that. Now it's been brought to $3 million. So trains to pass some tracks 60, etc., etc. I don't want to give you that information right now. We have adapted ourselves to our real circumstances, and we also support the fact that control of all of this will in some way be able to perform the communal directors. That's two points, and I think it should be supported and HDZ will support this. What I'd like to add to two, three sentences might make you laugh a little bit, and the other one was more serious. In the 6th month when the debate was held, I read a phonogram from HDSSB colleagues set an example of complaining citizens in Ban Jelačić Square that where 40 decibels are allowed to play music of 300 decibels. I'll give you an example where I was personally involved. At Solta, a little one place Stomorska, two grandmothers of one 80-odd 85-year-old have 20 chickens and one 5.6 beer and these brewers normally do their job drinking and people have invested 100 thousand euros in loans they took, rebuild the houses, the foreigners came running, the other came, they ran and the other, the agency gave up. It's a failed season. Second season's going down. They spoke to me as a parliamentary representative, I went to the Municipality of Solta ten times, and this season practically fell apart. So life is dynamic, life is beautiful, diverse, diverse. We're not going to solve all these problems but what Mr. Deputy Minister would put on your mind and I think you could and want me to think that we all want to and we have to solve it. What the colleague also previously touched, the question of decibel and the volume of noise in disco clubs. You as a ministry and we as a Parliament would really need to say, the disco clubs are laughing so much, and then we should set up a communal director or inspector with a camera and if we close it more. We know that even at weddings we can't, let alone talk out of the noise, but the wedding is once a year, but the youth goes, all the young, how much, every night, means the youth is every night at the disco club, and I'm sure 100% that in a certain number of these adolescents and youngsters the older to remain and the lasting consequences in terms of these and those consequences, that I don't now count them, I think it might be more effective and that you could set up and act in this way that simply our disco club owners realize that they can, I think, and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62077	Thank you. We have registered two replicas, first Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62078	Thank you very much. A colleague of Marasovic, since you are from this region, we do not know which beer is involved, because this one from Vrgorec or some other brewers. The second thing I wanted to say about your discussion about noise and you know it yourself, and you mentioned these disco clubs and coffee bars, etc. Where's really here I don't know if I'm an old man like you or not, but as you say here, you get nervous when you're there for half an hour, so noise as a health problem in some way, or belongs to this ministry and this material from the health ministry, it's really a problem sometimes, even in the case of beer and chicken, right?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62079	All right, I just hope these beers aren't from the Kukuriku coalition. And now we'll hear the replica of Domagoj Hajdukovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62080	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Well, they must have been very loud if the tourists were tossing out. However, my colleague, I wanted to look back at something else, and that is what my colleague Holly said, so the law as a law is not alone, but I find it difficult to implement. So we had a whole series of cases where tenants can sleep for days and nights, rest just because of discotheques that exist in basements and basements of some houses that aren't even built with intent, let alone in isolation to have such a thing in the basement. So you have a case where the vibrations, so from loud music, the whole building is shaking. And there, after the inspection comes out on the ground, there is constantly no reason to close that discotheque or at least to force them to make better isolation. It's a problem and for the law itself as such is as you've noticed actually just harmonizing with the existing old one.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62081	In reply to Dujomir Marosovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62082	Dear colleague, I have therefore put on the soul of the deputy, minister and minister of the ministry a question that is being put to us as a problem in the summer months, in tourist places, it is eternal dynamics, eternal wrestling of this and that and hardly we will introduce order al disco clubs are our one constant, our one fact and we can go in there whenever we want and in the way we determine. And I can't get away, it's not there, if we're going to fix it, and I'd like it to be settled, and I really won't say it drastically but seriously, continuously and it would be in order if the state wanted to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62083	We're continuing the club debate. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Romana Jerkovic, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62084	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President, Your Honor, Deputy Minister, colleagues and colleagues. The SDP club will vote in favour of the bill. With these amendments and additions, we are supplementing the Law on Noise Protection in order to comply with the EU Directive and we believe that it is an improvement in the existing legislative solution. The changes concern making strategic cards of noise, which is not news. There is also a need in the current law, i.e. the obligation to make maps of noise and action plans, but what is changing is that future maps and plans will have to work both for smaller areas from now on and for populated areas with more than 100 inhabitants instead of 250 so far. The second amendment concerns the powers of the communal directors, which we also welcome. The truth is, we changed this law in April of this year when the controls in the facilities registered to perform catering activities and noise control that arises from the maintenance of public gatherings and organized some gatherings of fun sports nature are left open to local self-government. So the noise control had thus ceased to be carried out by the inspectorate's staff and it had become the authority of the communal directors i.e. municipalities and cities. Therefore, this proposal complements the provisions relating to the powers of the communal directors to exercise supervision over the decision of the representative bodies of the local self-government units or powers to initiate the infringement procedure. And we believe that the bill is good, and the SDP Club will support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62085	Thank you. We still have to hear the positions of the HDSSB and Bora Grubisic Club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62086	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. It's here today. It's a bit of an easier subject and it's mine. Well, we can agree with Mr. Deputy Minister and agree with this bill. Except in this, not that, but rather, let me see that Article 2 states that the powers of the communal director to exercise control over the decisions of the representative bodies of the local self-government units and the communal director will actually receive another duty, yet another role to determine the known methods, the prescribed methods, the height of noise in decibels, and to act in accordance with the legal rules. Yesterday we had a debate, so three laws were together in the package, so construction, spatial planning and construction inspection. I stress this latest, latter, construction inspection where it is said that this part of the building inspectors will be carried out by the communal directors. Now, if we load the noise to the communal directors and everything that they're doing so far, I don't know, the communal directors are really going to turn into the most valuable thing any city or community has. So these directors who come today may be half-employed, they have a lot to say as the people say in Zagreb luft in their working hours, given the new laws, here's the one about construction, the construction inspection, and then today about noise, there may be another law that is prescribed that municipal directors do these jobs too. As far as the law itself is concerned, he has determined that maps and action plans, so strategic noise maps and action plans are being implemented in areas that are larger, have more than 100,000 inhabitants, then at airports that have over 50,000 take-off operations, landings. Then for the main roads with more than 3 million passages per year and for the main railway lines with more than 30,000 train passages per year. Here's an example of disabling those who think there will be no roads or railways with more than 30 thousand although we have reduced the network of railways but these main corridors that are left and survived and that survive, say the state road D423 in Slavonski Brod every day on that road of 16 thousand, 16 to 20 thousand vehicles are waiting for a moustache on Osijek Street. Count 356 days times 16 thousand vehicles, so that goes over this number that's set here 3 million vehicles a year. Therefore, here is also the town of Slavonski Brod, which has less than 100,000 inhabitants, which will be so frequent that it will also be necessary to create a strategic map of noise and action plan protection against noise. In this final proposal of this law, even when a strategic map of noise and action plans should be made at the latest and delivered to Europe, with a note to say the revision of strategic maps of noise and action plans is carried out every 5 years, which is all acceptable for the HDSB Club and we will be in favour of voting on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Noise Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62087	A esteemed colleague, Silvano Hrelja, appears for the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62088	Dear fellow Grubisic, I must introduce myself to you, 15 years ago I passed the noise measurement exam when there were no digital devices that could have worked practically, to be in the function of creating a map to be. And I have to tell you that communal monks will be completely unusable in that case unless, as cyborgs in the snail tomorrow, one such micro-instrument is installed in them so that they can decide where there is noise or where there is noise. The noise itself may belong to this ministry because it is a major pestilence and a serious social health problem. But one part of this problem exactly as far as cards of noise belong to more environmental protection and this other part. Because, you know, no noise in the workplace is harmful, but it's also a harmful communal noise because of its monotony because of a quiet effect on the shell organism. The only thing we can't do, we really can't do anything about losing our youth's hearing because they're chosen to go to disco clubs and I really don't know if they'd go there if there was one sign that they had to go to a disco club with protective headphones. So I don't think that would work, even though I think it exists, that it's a really social health problem, and that there's a great loss of working ability here because of the adverse effects of noise. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62089	The replica matches Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62090	I'm glad you've replicated it like this. In fact, a few days ago I spent an hour in such a discolub where I was playing in the same rhythm constantly techno music, but so loud and so loud that after an hour spent in such an ambience I started to puke, and since I got out then I felt, which is interesting and I guess that's what I'm saying, for the first time, I've shuddered, I don't know what it is, but I believe it's from that noise and I haven't been able to calm down really from it. And it's a good thing that you've put it like this more picturesquely, and I'm even more picturesque about this problem. And as for the communal directors, I was talking about them because here we give them new assignments and they're really going to be that chakum-pakum and we're going to have to hire new ones most likely. So, measure the noise, watch which buildings aren't legally built, where the car is parked on the lawn or not, one wheel is, one is not so that he pays half the fine and I don't know what doesn't happen to our communal directors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62091	The debate on the text of the law is closed now. We'll vote when the conditions are met. I thank Deputy Cesarik. Final proposal of the Act on Amendments and Completion of the Law on Noise Protection, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 543. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? Score. We've adopted this bill unanimously with 102 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62094	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. So before us is the Protocol on matters of importance for the Irish people regarding the Treaty of Lisbon which we propose to confirm in the Parliament. It is therefore a Protocol which was to enter into force in 1.7.2013, before Croatia enters the European Union and now Croatia must ratify it as a Member State. It has not entered into force since four European Union countries have not ratified it by then. It is Belgium, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic and Italy. We all know that the Lisbon Treaty was rejected in the first attempt at a referendum in Ireland in 2008, only in 2009. Meanwhile, a number of legally binding guarantees have been given to Ireland, primarily as regards the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU and the Treaty on Freedom, Security and Justice. These are issues relating to the scope and applicability of the protection of the right to life and family protection, the protection of rights in respect of education guaranteed by the Constitution of Ireland, issues of enforcement of the competence of the European Union in relation to taxes, issues of military neutrality of Ireland and certain issues relating to security and defence. As the whole ratification process in other Member States would not have to be repeated because of the failure of the first referendum in Ireland, the European Council decided on 18 June 2009 that this guarantee would be included in the next legal act to be taken at that level, either a new contract or an accession contract for the next Member State that was intended to be Croatia. You know that we were not very happy with such a solution and that we were getting against what was also accepted so that the Member States decided that the protocol would not be signed, and then ratified as part of our accession contract rather than as a separate document. The draft Protocol was adopted by the European Council in April and signed by all Member States in June 2012. He is now ahead of us for adoption, or ratification. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62095	Thank you, Deputy. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Davor Bozinovic, will speak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62096	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister. I think this is an important law, not in terms of discussion whether we will support it or not, but it is one opportunity to use European legislation once again to keep that promise to the citizens of the Republic of Croatia, which is that we will use and continue the campaign or the information process on issues that are important to the European Union. I know special campaigns need both money and time, but just when the law comes, I think it's good to talk about it because as much as this would seem to be a typical international contract, I don't think it is, for a few reasons. First, it gives us insight into the complexity of European policy and European rights which is strictly necessary and possible to clarify because we are now the subject of this process. In that context, I'd have a question and a proposal. This Treaty, namely the Protocol and the provisions which are part of this Protocol, shall be annexed to the Treaty on European Union and to the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. He was also an integral part of our accession treaty, based on the decision of the European Council, which Mr. Deputy Minister here explained earlier. However, the constitutional basis for the adoption of this law was found in Article 140(1), which is correct. However, the contract, the final agreement to confirm the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia, was the constitutional basis of paragraphs 140 and 140 of point 2 so that I believe that the Committee on Legislatives discussed it. I don't know if they've seen that fact, but we're going to have a situation where we've adopted the basic contract with a two-thirds majority, and anex, because this is about an annex to the EU Treaty, the two-thirds majority is not listed as a condition. Of course, I don't think there are any differences between us, or the difference between the intensity of the motionor. But I think that needs to be clarified before he comes to the House vote. In fact, the Irish case has just shown how important issues are for the EU and for the Member States, how important the issues concerning citizens are, and how possible that if any issues are overlooked or not approached with due care as far as they can get out of order to say the areas that political elites control. The context of what happened in Ireland is not particularly complicated. So in 2008, Ireland faces as well as the rest of Europe with a major crisis, there is growing dissatisfaction, and at that point the ruling elite does not show enough understanding and do not listen to any people but simply join the referendum process, which, as the deputy minister already said in his first attempt, failed. Why do I say that? At that moment, many players who actually wanted this process of adopting, ratifying the Lisbon Treaty either make it difficult or disable it like some billionaires, businessmen, there is mentioned... One of the richest Irish. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] In the end, the whole campaign turned out to be more, serving some of the corporate interests of large capital that was coming beyond the borders of Ireland and beyond the EU borders. Secondly, it has been legally demonstrated that the EU is a flexible mechanism that knows at certain times how it can protect both the interests of the Union and the interests of the Member States when both face specific challenges. It should be borne in mind that this is possible precisely because the Union is developing a model of constitutional-legal pluralism and I would dare say on this example it is shown that a rational approach to politics and law becomes possible when a goal is known to be achieved. But when they know the limits to which each community is at some point objectively capable or willing to go. Just such a rational approach is responsible for something that once seemed impossible, which is that the interested community is already operating now 28 Member States, which has become a practice unprecedented in history. I would also say as angry as they were in the EU at the failure of the first Irish referendum, no one had thought to underestimate and downplay the fact that the Irish people voted in favour of voting, and that the only answer to this was to address his concerns even through a protocol that we see becomes an integral part of the EU Treaty. So, in addition to the fact that the Lisbon Treaty provides for the first time the role of national parliaments in the European regulatory process and such examples form an integral part of what Professor Rodin calls the constitution of national regulatory procedures. Ireland's case relates to national legal and constitutional mechanisms which are subject to specific national requirements affecting their adoption. Such solutions may reduce the effectiveness and speed of decision-making, but in favour of greater democraticity of the decision-making process. Because the problem of the deficit, the democratic deficit of the Union, is already seen on this example as an effort, marginalising the envisaged strengthening of the role of the European Parliament through the use of the role of national parliaments, as well as the Institute of Direct Democracy. We talked about the modernity of the European practice of direct democracy last week when we adopted the Law on the implementation of the Directive on the European Civil Initiative. Let's say that Slovenia went further by introducing an institute of a subsequent legislative referendum that could challenge any law, regardless of whether or not it implements some previously undertaken European obligations. This group, therefore, lists the exceptions that some Member States have managed to come up with by blocking the ratification process whether it is a case of Great Britain and Poland that have been exempted from the application of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the EU. In other words, it will not be possible to press charges before courts in Great Britain and Poland which, as we see, the practice of the European Court of Justice does not, however, follow or change. There is the UK and Ireland, so-called opt-out or exemption from police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters, including earlier exemptions from politics, immigration and asylum. Then Ireland is these additional guarantees that we have here, which are immunity from the provisions of the Lisbon Treaty relating to taxation and the guarantee of Irish neutrality, the inaccessibility of national constitutional provisions on the right to life of the unborn, then education and family where the state recognises the family as a natural and fundamental unit of society that precedes and is subject to its positive right. Therefore, the EU Charter cannot have an impact on this provision as well as on other provisions discussed here. I, of course, have no intention of opening the conversation on these solutions because it is not our topic, but I think it is important that we know the content of the provisions that are only a few. The good practice of Parliament is that the bill always gives all the necessary elements from which parliamentarians can gain more quality insight into what is in that law. So, we here have a list of articles, several articles, the Irish Constitution but not content. So we see from the Irish example that there are no questions that a civilised society cannot discuss by respecting each side's arguments. The fact that, after the crisis, Ireland is back on track and is again among the more successful economies, the EU economies only confirm this position as well as the fact that the EU is actually a treasurer of ideas and there is neither exclusive nor imposing views in its work. It would also be interesting for me personally to discuss the relationship between Article 3 of this Protocol and Article 42(7). The EU Treaty relating to military neutrality or to the relationship between the mutual assistance clause provided for in the EU Treaty, which is on the trail of NATO's very well-known Article 5, i.e. the relationship between Article 5. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The EU Treaty, especially in the face of a country such as Croatia, which is a member of both integrations. Anyway, this is a law that we're going to support, and I think it's useful that we stick to it a little bit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62097	Thank you. We have reported two replicas. First Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62098	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Your colleague Bozinović said well, although you did not comment on the content of the differences between Ireland and what it says in the Lisbon Treaty. However, it states that the protocol is a matter of importance for the Irish people in respect of the Lisbon Treaty in Brussels on 13 June 2012 and was opened for signing on 30 June 2012. Here is Croatia, since it has become a new member, is able to confirm the agreement, or contract. And now in the list of what is significant for the Irish people and what is somewhat different from what is applicable in the EU, it is a protection of the right to life and says this is a protection of family rights, protection of education rights, then neutrality, certain issues related to security and defence, so the issue of military neutrality and several other rights. Since we know Ireland and it is known in the world as one of the most Catholics, and while Belgium is the most Catholic of all, we also know our thanks to God, you can see that this is a good example of how a country, a small country with 4.5 million inhabitants like Croatia, can reach what it wants in a conversation and an agreement with the EU. And here is Croatia on the verge of her signing this agreement. I say, this is a good example of how they defend their interests, how they defend their people's interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62099	The replica matches Davor Bozinović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62100	My colleague Grubisic, so I deliberately did not, although I said something more about these provisions than we got, because in the text we only got what the articles of the Constitution of Ireland were, I did quote some of the provisions with my freedom, but I deliberately did not want to open those questions because these are issues that relate to Ireland and that is something that we here are not expected to discuss in a substantive sense. However, I stressed that in just one case and there may be a link to the situation in Croatia that in a civilised atmosphere where arguments are presented on any issue, as was the case in Ireland, and as the EU and the European Commission on behalf of the EU are involved in this process, a peaceful civilised atmosphere can be found a way out of each issue. This was my intensity, and it seems to me that it was more important to say about this because, as I said at the beginning, this is not a typical international contract, this is an annex to the contract on the EU, an annex to the Treaty on Croatian Accession, and I think that it should be said more than those common bureaucratic phrases.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62101	The replica includes Ante Babic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. A fellow Bozinovic, speaking of a law confirming protocol of importance to the Irish people, you said it was a key international contract, but you mentioned, among other things, that after the Irish referendum, no one had thought to underestimate the will of the people and the results of the referendums, and that as I recall our last Sunday referendum, a clear message was also sent to this government, but not only to this government, but also to all future governments with fundamental human values, that they must actually be respected that these wills of the people must be respected. Do you think that you don't have to respect them or, as the government does, and I don't understand why you're belittling them, it's certainly not good, and as you say, the civilized path that we're dealing with here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62103	I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the text of the law when the conditions are met. I would like to thank the Deputy Minister. The final proposal of the Law confirming the protocol on matters of importance for the Irish people regarding the Lisbon Treaty, the emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 525. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? We passed this bill unanimously, with 101 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62106	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. These amendments and amendments to the laws are proposed in the same way as for workers in the employment relationship to provide insurance for unemployment and persons performing their own activity. Individuals carrying out their own activities will be able to obtain the right to cash compensation during unemployment, subject to the fact that the termination of that activity has taken place for justified reasons. The duration of the payment entitlement will be determined depending on the total time spent in the unemployment insurance system and the amount of the fee according to the base for the payment of compulsory insurance contributions. In addition, these amendments and additions to the law will be brought into line with the law on maternity and parental support, the Labour Act and the Employment Encouragement Act. More specifically, the notion of an unemployed person will be defined, the labour market will be rerouted by the Bureau for preparation frameworks for content-based employment in such a way as to provide quality individual services to employers and unemployed persons. The Institute of extensions of the right to cash compensation has been abolished, the amount of cash aid paid to an unemployed person during education is precisely determined and will determine the circumstances which may lead to the suspension or termination of the right to financial assistance during education. Circumstances will also be established which may lead to the suspension or termination of the right to financial assistance during vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship will also determine the right to financial assistance for permanent seasons instead of the right to so far. a permanent cash compensation which this right has ceased due to the establishment of a working relationship. Compared to the proposal previously which was in the first reading in the Croatian Parliament, the final bill differs in the following. For the purpose of horizontal alignment with the amendments and additions of the Law establishing and detouring the ministries and other central authorities of the state administration which are in the process of adopting the words of the State Inspectors, the body of the State responsible for the inspection of work shall be replaced. In addition, compliance with the mandatory health insurance law has been carried out in such a way that the whole text of the final bill is replaced by the words temporary inability to work. Since the procedure for the adoption of the new Law on crafts and the Law on Pension Insurance and amending and supplementing the Law on Income Taxation was intended to comply with certain provisions of the final draft law, the provisions of the final draft law have been harmonised in such a way that those provisions of the final proposal of the law prescribe a new circumstance for the performance of domestic work or secondary occupation affecting the status of an unemployed person, i.e. the termination of the rule of law, as well as the termination of the law and of the law on financial compensation, or financial assistance during education and vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship. The domestic activity or secondary occupation is regulated in a significantly different way by the new Law on crafts, so that all crafts activities can be carried out through this form without special conditions. The basic difference arises from the restriction of receiving domestic work or secondary occupation up to the amount of 10 gross average monthly wages in the previous calendar year. Compared to the new Pension Insurance Act, the concept of disability pension due to professional inability to work is replaced by the notion of disability pension due to partial loss of work capacity. And the notion of disability pension due to general inability to work, the notion of disability pension due to total loss of ability to work. As the new Pension Insurance Act suggests that disabled pensioners will also be provided with those rights within the same scope because of their professional inability to work that they are entitled to do so until this Pension Insurance Act enters into force. While persons with disabilities will be subject to the same age pension due to their general inability to work. It was valid in the final draft of the law in an appropriate way to provide for these solutions. In addition, the new Pension Insurance Act provides that an insurance undertaking is a cooperative manager if it is not secured on another basis it was necessary to establish that it should also be secured in the event of unemployment and properly respect the status of the cooperative manager in respect of his or her unemployment status. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 21(3) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 of the European Parliament and of the Council on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union. In relation to the amendments and additions to the Income Tax Act, the provisions of the final draft law governing the monthly receipt affecting the status of an unemployed person have been harmonised, the termination of management in the records of the institutions. By suspending financial assistance during education and vocational training for work without the establishment of a working relationship, the termination of the right to financial assistance to persons secured on extended pension insurance on the basis of a fixed time contract for permanent seasonal jobs in such a way as to replace the words "income in other independent activities" with the words "other income". With respect to the objection made by the Ministry of Justice, the correction and provision of Article 30 of the final draft of the law, which adds a new Article 40a, in a way that the word "executive" is replaced by "legislative". During the construction of the final draft of the law, the Proposer observed a lack of provision governing the statute of an unemployed person because it did not provide for the executive directors of a company but only representatives and members of the company’s management, so that, in accordance with the company’s law, it was appropriate to provide for the possibility of a monoistic and dualistic way of managing a company. Information on the basis of which the funds for the implementation of the law are planned. For the implementation of this law, the means of financing employment activities shall be ensured from the employment contributions made to insurance in the event of unemployment at a rate of 1.70% by employers on the salaries of workers. But also from the contributions of persons carrying out an independent activity which will become accounting and payment bonds of that contribution after the entry into force of this law. According to the information provided by the Croatian Pension Insurance Office, the body in 2012 with the basis of the insurance of craftsmen made 12,000 outs and 29 outs were made from the basis of the insurance of farmers. And from the basis of the insurance of the independent professional activity, 17 thousand 366 out. Under the order of the Minister, the financial responsibility for the amounts of the base for the calculation of the compulsory insurance contribution for 2013, the basis for the calculation of the contribution for compulsory insurance for craftsmen, amounts to 5113 kuna and for the free professions of 8000 633. For other independent activities it is 5113 kuna and for agricultural forestry activities 4326 kuna. In the event of a correlation, the number of pension insurance deposits during 2012 of persons carrying out their own activity and the amount of the basis for calculating the compulsory insurance contribution according to that order and the employment rate of 1.70% are expected to receive an annual budget of 106 million 303 000 and 351 kuna. It should be pointed out that the right to cash compensation is obtained provided that the person has at least 9 months of work in the last 24 months for which the contribution for employment has been calculated and paid. Therefore, persons who have ceased to carry out their own activity could be entitled to cash compensation under this law only after 9 months in 2014 are secured for unemployment. These amendments and additions to the law provide for the right to financial assistance of extended pension insurance undertakings on the basis of a fixed-term employment contract. According to the Croatian Employment Institute, according to data from the Croatian Pension Insurance Institute, the number of persons secured on extended pension insurance is estimated to be around 11 million and 925 kuna per year. However, it should be pointed out that the real cost at the annual level, based on financial assistance for extended pension insurance undertakings, on the basis of a fixed-term employment contract, will not be due to the fact that these persons have so far been on unemployment records during extended pensions and have obtained the right to cash compensation during unemployment. According to analyses, the employment of permanent seasonal workers was mainly in tourism, and due to the salary level they were entitled to cash compensation in the maximum amount of 3834 kuna for the first three months, i.e. 1917 at the remaining time of law. The cost of seasonal workers' fees will be replaced by the cost of the right to cash for a permanent seasonal worker and for 1000 permanent seasons will be around 11.5 million kuna per year, as would be the cost of cash compensation. So I suggest you discuss the draft final bill and accept it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62107	Thank you, Deputy Stubel. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. Clubs first. On behalf of the SDP club, a respected colleague, Ivana Posavec Krivec, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62108	I thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. The SDP Club gives full support to the final proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Mediation and Rights Act during unemployment. We have shown this unequivocal support in our first reading and in accordance with the Rules of Procedure today, I find it unnecessary to talk about everything that has happened to the initial proposal itself in this law, so I will remain only on those things that change between the two readings. But I would certainly like to say here that, on behalf of the SDP club, we are also supporting the government to stop if possible, and in the end, to reverse the trend in the growth of the number of unemployed, but at the same time create economic preconditions for new investment and new jobs. We are aware that all those reform procedures in the first phase we are implementing are causing an increase in unemployment but we are equally aware that, with the economic recovery in the second stage, with the quality programmes and funds from the European Union that have been at our disposal since 2014 this trend will certainly turn. In the opening statement, the applicant's representative explained the differences between the final draft laws and the bill we had in the first reading. In this regard, we can point out that the paper refers exclusively to the horizontal alignment of this law with the legal amendments to a series of rules that are in the process of adoption. So here in this House, we discussed the Law on crafts, the Law on Pension Insurance, the Law on the establishment and division of the Ministry and other central authorities of the state administration and the Tax on Income Act. Since all these amendments that take place between the two readings relate to the harmonisation of all these laws which the SDP Club has supported, we are also giving clear support to this law, and we hope that, on the basis of all those measures that the Government is taking and which it advocates, and for which the HZZC has made quality changes for all persons who are unemployed, that this law will give support to the adoption of this law at the time of unemployment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62109	Thank you. On behalf of the HDZ club, a respected colleague, Ivanka Roksandić, will speak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62110	Thank you, dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. This is really the time we live in and when we have over 354 000 unemployed, and every day more and more companies go bankrupt, and today we have discussed such a law, so the number of unemployed is growing even faster, giving us special care for the unemployed and supporting each shift to reduce that figure. A little over a month ago we talked about this law and there were 340,000 unemployed, today here is 355 344 afternoon. It is expected that when this law enters into force on 1 January, about 370,000 people will be unemployed if this pace continues. Therefore, encouraging self-employment and opening of at least one job is of great importance. We support the amendments and additions to this law, which suggests that, in the same way as for workers in the employment relationship, rights and persons carrying out their own activity can be made possible in the event of unemployment. This means providing all those brave people who decide to go into entrepreneurial waters to ensure that they are at risk. Today, even unemployed people are reluctant to work with privates, let alone privates. This is how the Ministry of Economy and Entrepreneurship and crafts almost always, due to a lack of financial resources, reduces these subsidies, and even in agriculture, we can expect more and more people to be at the Employment Office every day. Only the first six months of this year have reduced the number of craft owners by about 1,000. At this time last year there were 85,000 crafts, and this year in June about 84 000. However, persons carrying out their own activities will also become payment bonds for employment contributions. The law regulates intermediation relations in employment, professional guidance, education in order to increase employment, insurance for unemployment, active labour market action in order to promote the spatial and professional mobility of the workforce, and new employment and self-employment, sources of funds for the activities of the HZZ, as well as the structure, management and exercise of the activities of the Institute. According to the proposed amendments in Article 10 of the Institute, powers are extended by the fact that other jobseekers who are not considered unemployed may also report for consultation and information with a view to the development of career management and mediation. However, according to today's number of unemployed persons, the question of what kind of help are really provided by staff, or how qualified they are at the moment to consult and inform with the aim of career management development. And that is why it is absolutely pointless, we really intend to extend the powers of the institution, although we are faced with the huge problems of the Croatian economy with the daily loss of jobs in the real sector. Furthermore, these proposed amendments shall be abolished by the Institute of Regular Monthly Reporting to the Office. What is good in this law is equalising the rights of unemployed craftsmen with other unemployed persons at the Croatian Employment Service, which we particularly point out. In the second reading, this law was only harmonised as the Proposer in the introduction said with those laws that we have now passed amendments and additions in this period between two or before reading. The Law on crafts, the Law on Pension Insurance, the Law on the Construction and Circumstance of the Ministry and other central bodies of the State Administration and the Law on Income Tax, and the first proposal and the law on the one we already discussed in the first reading and on maternity and parental support, the Labour Act and the Employment Encouragement Act. This law, among other things, will no longer enter into the amount of cash compensation under specific rules. Now no more money support like one-time cash support for a newborn child. It is good that this law provides for the right to compensation of an unemployed person who has unanimously terminated employment due to collectively providing for extra workers. What we don't think should be changed is that the rights of unemployed persons are lifted by all those who are members of the cooperative as well as those who have registered companies. These laws do not refer to persons who are members of the cooperative, regardless of their role, as unemployed persons under this law. What is certainly most important is that the EU's recommendations are aimed at encouraging active measures, not passive measures. As a growing number of young people who can only work through the Professional Training Programme should be obliged to provide at least a slightly larger amount of financial assistance. We therefore propose that this financial assistance is not determined at the level of the non-taxable amount of the scholarship, i.e. 1600 kunas to how young a man who decides to work in such a way is given a month, but to comply with at least what is the minimum wage. So, somewhere net about 2360 kuna. And all these programs that encourage employment and reduce the number of unemployed are commendable. However, there is a large and wide range of these programmes, and the patterns are also supported by employers. This way significantly complicates the process, gives employers and those who approve of programmes, yet many categories of unemployed bypass. As if the unemployed are not equally unemployed and therefore each of them who wants to work should receive assistance on the same terms and conditions as soon as possible, and not as they are now just waiting and waiting for a long time for those young people who decide to get a job like that, and lately they are getting more and more and more and more and more and more decisions are being made, and the only way to do so is to hire them for 1600 kuna. So they wait even months to get a decision on employment opportunities. Then these programs forgot they were slightly older than 25, i.e. For 29 years, except that the employer chooses younger and the state makes it clear to them that they are old enough to be more helpful in employment. However, PAK programs that allow young people to work on training to stay for 12 months at full pay, with the institution paying 50% for him in small or large employers, bypassed those who are even more damaged, and these are those who work in local self-government units in the same way. These are all problems that need to be solved as soon as possible, because they are not so damaged employers, but precisely those of our unemployed citizens. What is also restrictive and unnecessary is the setting of a deadline for the extension of the right to cash compensation from 30 days from the date of expiry of the established right. And what if you miss that deadline? Is that not unemployed anymore and doesn't he need our help? Of course, for these new rights, funds should be provided and, as usual, they are the only persons who carry out their own activities, and those new rights that would be better off never having to ask for all the benefits and new obligations. Of these 1.7% of the employment contributions, revenue in the budget is expected to amount to more than 106 million kuna. According to this budget projection for 2015, and we adopted the budget yesterday, another 119 million kuna should be provided. And given the situation where the budget deficit is increasing every day and when we look at which existing expenditures are reduced, it is questionable whether and how we will be able to provide these additional funds for these intentions. It is a joy that we will really be able to withdraw some of the funds from the EU funds. What is also surprising is that these proposed amendments are contained, Deputy Minister, through 54 articles, and the whole existing law has a total of 79 articles. So the question arises whether it was better to start a new law again and make many things right. I must point out that, before this reading of the final bill, we have again been given the amendment to the government that repairs it, the law that was sent last week to the procedure again, because you forgot something in those compliances with the Pension Insurance Act. So tomorrow we'll probably discuss the adoption and vote on this law and the amendment to the government. We said this law was passed in 2008, but that he had experienced in 2009, 2010 and now here in 2012, a new two amendments, so it might be better if we started writing a new law again because we have now 54 articles of 79 that we are changing. The fact that today we have a really dramatic situation on the Croatian labour market, that there are an increasing number of unemployed people. What we find very important for this bill is that we need to analyse the active employment policy measures, ask for the opinions of the Employment Service in the field that have experience with the implementation of the laws and the programmes set out under this law, so those incentive measures, and then surely we would have had better results than these today, when, despite the numerous measures that the institution is really trying to resolve this unemployment problem from the second quarter of this year when 16% was now here at the 9th month, according to data, it increased to 19.1%. In this bill, I will finally say the HDZ Club supports all those provisions relating to those small entrepreneurs who, due to the increasingly difficult situation in our country, will be forced to close their trades and to all unfortunately our fellow citizens who will have to terminate their working relationship in agreement because they have become excess in collectives.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62111	Thank you. The replica was reported by Marija Lugarić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62112	Dear colleagues, I think it is important to point out that this year the measure covers more than 48 thousand people, which is actually the largest number at the annual level that is even covered by employment measures. One part of the entry, so to say, in unemployment statistics, seems to me to be about 20% higher in the student population and students who have never applied to the Employment Service before because they simply did not have the appropriate measures to encourage employment, so they were formally unemployed but were not registered as unemployed because of the measures. Secondly, regarding the amendment of the Government here, it is not really about the fact that the Government has forgotten something, it is about the part that is related to the Pension Insurance Act, and today the Government has established at its session the text of the final proposal in which it has accepted the request of the Parliament to delete these chess players, and then it has to be brought into line with this. So it's literally about accepting the Parliament's amendment. That's, here's the board president here, we discussed it on our board. So we can talk many times about this forgetting but here it's really not the case but it's really a matter of harmonising at the request of us here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62113	We're continuing the debate. ... Did you get that? [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] I'm sorry, I didn't see. Here you go. Replication response.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62114	Just for a little while. My colleague Lugarić has this information, too, really in 2013. 47920 was included and covered by these active employment policy measures. I didn't say it was bad. That's good, just those 1600 kunas that young people get really aren't, come on now we've done a little bit of it because it started to pay and transport to some, you need to know that they were satisfied that they'd been working through it for six months or a year and gained some kind of work experience. But I have to tell you, unfortunately, it's become a practice. I'm afraid this practice of these measures that I didn't say were bad but that they were good, but we think we should find the means to increase that fee too. And on the other hand, I'm afraid that what happens in some parts that employers take young people for a year for a year and thus use as a workforce all those who choose to really hire through one such active measure that wasn't intended to do so. It was designed really as an incentive for young people to gain some first work experience. And these measures are indeed about 48 thousand young people.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62115	On behalf of the Croatian Labour Club – Work parties will speak Zlatko Tušak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62116	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and fellow MPs. Here we are at this dark evening time discussing a rather dark topic, which is a question of unemployment and the rights of those who have found themselves at the Employment Office. There is a part of the provision in the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Employment Intermediation Act which is acceptable to Croatian Labour Labourists, which is the issue of craftsmen who will be forced to close their crafts on the basis of the introduction of obligations for the unemployed and achieve part of the compensation at the Employment Office. Which we think is a good solution. It is also good that the law is in line with certain provisions of the other laws, but there are two provisions in the law that are not acceptable to Croatian Labourists – Labour parties and what I will say a little later. First, I'd like to indicate these black numbers that are. Already today, there have been talks about the number of 355,000 unemployed currently in the Employment Service and between the first and second readings of this law 15 thousand new workers were found at the Employment Office. Fifteen thousand of those who have lost their jobs and the question of when they will be able to get a new job again. 64,000 unemployed are users who receive benefits during unemployment and 164,000 unemployed are long-term unemployed and 70,000 young people have up to 24 years. At the first ten months of this year, 120,000 unemployed were wiped off the record. It's the ones that didn't get a job, that's the ones that we don't know where they ended up about erasing the statistics of the employment office. It's a 12,000-a-month number. This figure when I said 64 thousand users who receive benefits for the unemployed is very important because of what I am going to say next and that is the question of Article 34 which abolishes Article 44 and I don't know how many colleagues Roksandić have understood the provision, it is here that the rights that were paid by unemployed persons within 30 days to submit the request could still be used right from month to four months for unemployment benefits. These are simply deleted from this law and they lose that right to the employment office. On several occasions I and the minister talked about it, he tried to convince me that they would all exercise the right through the Social Care Centre and in this law this possibility was given but in the law, the achievement of the freak and social assistance there is a certain criterion. And that's the question if someone has a bigger property, if they haven't sold that bigger property, if they have a car, they can't get a social security fee. Everyone here, and not all of them, and these 64 thousand unemployed, who would have expired, had the right to submit without certain criteria and to make further compensation from months to months. How many numbers and how many of them will be able to achieve their rights at the welfare center, I think very little. And that's again the government's move that already to those who have found themselves in a very difficult situation where there is no new employment, where you can't get to work, when they run out of this scandal, that fee will be very small enough to reach through the social work centre. And that's why I've submitted the amendment, knowing in advance that the government won't accept it because it's probably going to be that argument that there's other means in place and here these funds aren't, but I'm still talking about those who are going to lose that fee and they would have it if that provision had remained in the law as it was. And again, the part is that those who are in the most difficult situation are denied certain rights instead of helping them to overcome the situation more easily and possibly if they were given some new chance of getting some new employment and making certain incomes. Secondly, the Croatian Labourists do not support and what we have given our amendment to because the law states that a member of the cooperative cannot be held as an unemployed person. Now I'm asking all of us what is a member of the cooperative? The argument is that the cooperative is a legal person and that, on this basis, members of the cooperative, since it cannot determine how much percentages they participate in the ownership of the cooperative, none of them can exercise that right to be held as an unemployed person. Cooperatives and cooperatives know that cooperatives under the Cooperatives Act can acquire profits but also have cooperatives that carry out their activities in order to meet the needs of their members without the intention of obtaining profits. These are social, consumer, housing cooperatives or some kind of local unit cooperative. To all those members who will not make any income on this basis, we deny the right to be treated as unemployed persons. The second fact, when we talk about cooperatives, in order for the cooperative to be established under the law, must have at least seven members. The law states that their membership fee for all members is equal and their stake is exactly the same. If we divide 100% by 7 it's about 15%. And the Law on the Rights of Those who can apply and keep track of the unemployed states that they can be unemployed those who have 25% stakes in individual companies. And now they can have shares, they don't have to make these profits, the company can be worth 10 million, their value in that company has 2 and a half million. If they do not have a job, they will be able to be at the employment office, and the members of the cooperative will not be able to exercise that right. Counting on the fact that in Croatia we have about a thousand and 300 cooperatives and that somewhere cooperatives have 20,000 of their members with this in a more unfavourable situation we put together members of the cooperative with which I think we are in violation of their constitutional rights that they are not all equal before the Constitution because, as I said to those who have 25% share in ownership, they will be able to be seen as unemployed and members will not be able to. What is it, why did they lose that right? So I guess that's probably why yeah, here's our chance to cut back on the statistics again, so of these 20,000 if several thousand of them are reported to the employment office, here's one move that's very easy to erase whether they're making any profits or not. On the other hand, there may also be a situation where a member of the cooperative works in another company and that company ends up in bankruptcy, he must stop being a member of the cooperative so that he can exercise his rights to the employment office. On the other hand, we are propagating and talking about co-operation in a way that should encourage and unite and develop this part of the area and that part of these members that should be part of this cooperative and develop cooperatives in Croatia are brought into an entirely invisible situation. These are in some way reasons and facts if these amendments are not respected Croatian Labourists will not be able to support this law primarily because it is two categories of people who are being brought into a more unfavourable position by the only law that I think is unfair in any case especially in this part when we talk about cooperative members and in that part of those who will not be able to achieve an extended fee at the Social Care Centre. And if these amendments are not accepted, the Croatian Labourists will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62117	Thank you. We still have to hear the views of the Club of HSU and Silvana Hrelja.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62118	Mr. Vice President, Mr. Deputy Minister with an associate. I will be brief, but I would like to refer to the Final Proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Intervention and Rights during Unemployment for the reason that the intention of the Croatian Party of pensioners is to support this Final Bill in any case. Although I can't say we're happy with all the possible solutions. But it is not to be expected, because in this area it is almost impossible to find an ideal solution because these practically change from month to month, change situations, in a way and create new measures and new incentives for employment. And I am sure that by 6 months 2014, we will again receive amendments and amendments to the law because some measures may also not show that they are sufficiently effective or targeted, but also because of the introduction of new measures and new rights. So this will certainly be a matter that will be very variable in the future because in order to solve this burning Croatian problem of combating unemployment we will all have to engage a little harder. And I'm sorry, but I don't think the state can handle this on its own at country level. I think that so far we've had quite a lot of full projects both at local level and when this would be directed towards incentives, to employment and to create some new value to probably stand better than we are today with very difficult numbers and the result of unemployment. So, I want to say that this is our permanent obligation, I don't want to take off the government's responsibility, she'll always be responsible, but I believe she's not the only one responsible for this situation. I would like to see our Croatia tomorrow as a social state of Denmark, although it is a kingdom where there is a provision in the law that no one should be unemployed for more than 6 months a year. Because if we have long-term unemployment then we have job losses, we have loss of human potential, we lose skills, it comes out of trends, we don't follow technological progress, and the problems get worse. Part of this can be compensated by continuous learning and by creating assumptions that new skills and new knowledge can be mastered, however, there we are quite an inert people and we do not heal too much, it is criticism for ourselves, but also for those who are in that status that we should go with more energy and positiveism to solve these problems. In the end, the Croatian Party of Retirement will one so-called "her" amendment to Article 55b intervene on this law. We have proposed this amendment because it is likely that the shortfall in Article 55.b in point 11. the rest of the word "it" is referred to the types of pension, and then when the family pension is mentioned then the family pension is paid to her. In some ways we know that there are many more women than men in the family pension because they live longer but cannot be implied that family pension is paid only to people, or only to women. I hope you accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62119	Thank you. I'm closing the debate on the law. We'll vote when the conditions are met. Final draft law amending and supplementing the Employment and Rights Intermediation Act during unemployment, second reading, PZ No. 487, the debate on the text of the law is over. The amendments were submitted by the Legislative Committee and MP Zlatko Tušak. I'd like the Deputy Minister of Labour and the Retirement System of Mr. Bozidar Stubel to come to the pay phone.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62121	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Honorable MPs and MPs.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62122	Amendment of the Committee on Legislatives or Amendments. Amendment 1 to Article 5
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62123	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62124	It becomes an integral part of the law. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62125	The government accepts.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62126	Deputy, what did you say, that he accepted? ... You're talking in the microphone. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62127	I said the amendments to the Committee on Legislatives were accepted by the Government.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62128	Here, these are the amendments to the Legislative Committee. ... Okay, they're becoming an integral part of the law. [[The intruder doesn't understand.]] Amendments to MP Zlatko Tušak. Amendment 1 to Article 8.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62129	The government can't accept it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62130	Explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62131	That provision does not regulate in a new way the status of cooperative members as unemployed persons, but is explicitly specified by the applicable provision of a law which stipulates that an unemployed person who has a registered company or another legal person cannot be considered as having more than 25% share in a company or other legal person. Therefore, since the cooperative is a legal person so far, the members of the cooperative could not be considered unemployed under the applicable law. In this way, equal treatment is achieved with regard to the person who has a registered company and the person who founded the cooperative and thus became a member of the cooperative, which has joined the cooperative, regardless of the fact that the company’s income is realised in the company.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62132	Amendment holder representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62133	Thank you, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I cannot accept this argument, primarily because it is 20,000 cooperative members who are put into a more unfavourable position on the basis of those who share in companies because they can have up to 25% share and in the higher financial value of companies and be at the Employment Office, while members of the cooperative may not exercise that right, and their share of cooperatives is much less than 25%, because for the establishment of a cooperative, 7 members is enough, which means that their share is less than 15%, and in some way is a violation of their rights on the basis of the equality of those who can exercise the right to be unemployed and members of the cooperative. That's why I'm asking the vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62134	Who is in favour of Amendment 1 to Article 8 of Representative Zlatko Tušak whom the Government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 2 to Article 12 Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62135	Amendment 2 to Article 12 is also not accepted by the Government. Once again, the right to cash compensation during unemployment is a right based on unemployment insurance when an unemployed person makes use of his right to cash compensation established on the basis of unemployment insurance. The extension of this right represents social giving, which as such belongs to the social care system. Therefore, the right to cash compensation on the basis of labour rights is proposed because the right to be owned on the basis of a person’s working relationship has already been applied. The purpose of the proposed provision is to encourage active employment measures, not passive, in line with the European Union's recommendations.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62136	Amendment holder representative Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62137	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. I can't agree with this argument because it's about 64,000 unemployed people at the Employment Office. Of those 64 000, somewhere around 45 000, will not be able to achieve the right to an extended fee, which is more than a year in the Employment Service because their transfer to the Law on Social Care will not be able to achieve such a right in this situation when there is a large unemployment, when a large number of workers cannot get to work, in this situation an even more awkward situation is brought about. So please vote on this amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62138	Who is the number two amendment agent of the Golden Tušak government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. Amendment 3 to Article 34 Here you go, Deputy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62139	Amendment 3. is also the right to cash compensation which, during unemployment, is based on unemployment insurance...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62140	Don't explain the amendment, just tell me if you accept it and give me that explanation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62141	Therefore, the right to cash compensation during unemployment is a right based on insurance for the unemployed and as such does not belong to this part of the aid.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62142	Amendment holder Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62143	For the same reason, please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62144	Who is in favour of Amendment 4 to Article 42 of Representative Tušak which the Government does not accept? The amendment didn't get the required majority. And amendment number five of the same applicant. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62145	The government also does not accept from the arguments we have given orally and the second amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62146	Carrier Zlatko Tušak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62147	For the same reason, please vote on the amendment.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62148	Who is for Amendment 5 to Article 43. A gold shower the government doesn't accept? He didn't get the necessary majority. Thank you, Deputy. I note that the Government of the Republic of Croatia submitted an amendment within the deadline, so it became an integral part of the final bill. We won't vote on him. And I note that the Club of Representatives of HSU has withdrawn its amendment. I am now voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Against? Restraint? What's the score? I declare that the law has been passed by a majority of the 95 votes in favour and four against. We'll discuss another item on the agenda today. It is - Final proposal for a life-long severance law, i.e. the purchase of a pension, second reading, PZ No. 266 Proposer of the Law is the club of HSU. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to the second reading of the law shall apply to the adoption of this law. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Legislatives, the Committee on Labour, the Pensions System and the Social Partnership. You received the reports at the session. Would the applicant's representative like to further explain the proposal? Yeah. Dear Representative Silvano Hrelja, here you are.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62150	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Deputy Minister with associate, colleague and colleague. I am honored to be re-presented in this assembly by the Law on Lifelong Retirement or Repurchase, this time as the final draft of the law. Your unanimous support for the adoption of this law on first reading has been a strong incentive for us as a legislator in the drafting of this final bill, as well as a sign that it is a legal proposal of generally acceptable interest, a law that is needed, especially in the present time of recession and daily layoffs of employees and we believe in your support and this occasion. When drawing up this final draft of the law, as well as at the beginning of this legislative procedure, we have been led to normically frame the implementation of pension purchases on the one hand, but also to offer such a law that will meet its purpose and be understandable, enforceable and acceptable to those to whom it is intended, which are employers and their employees and that long-term pension purchasers are provided with a more complete material and social security in pension. First of all, we feel it is necessary to remind ourselves that the purpose of this law is not that it is rarely thought to encourage early retirements but only to mitigate the consequences of the early retirement of those with whom it would otherwise be to terminate the labour contract because of the reorganisation, restructuring or reduction of business, which, of course, would be the workforce. This also means that this law does not increase the number of pensioners, however, increases the number of satisfied pensioners because their employer compensates them for their early retirement. The proposed law is the result of a good practice in Croatia that lasts for over 20 years, it has been accepted by social partners, including the state and is incorporated into many collective agreements. The collection of pensions is recognised, defined and regulated only as regards the taxation of the income of individuals who have received a pension. As a result, they have long matured the conditions to regulate it properly and within the legal framework that is currently being done with this legislative proposal. As is known, retirement is characterized by the following. The addition of pension is the result of social dialogue between employers and employees where the burden of purchase is borne exclusively by the employer, so there are no fiscal burdens or no financial burdens for the state. In the implementation of pension purchases, the principles of defined contributions for the payment of the employer's premium and the fixed contributions for the determination of the sum of the collected pension to be paid for life. The legal basis for the collection of pensions is the contract between the employer and the company paying the paid-up pension with the consent of the workers. The collected pension is obtained and calculated under the conditions for pensions referred to in the first pillar of the pension system, so the first pillar of pension insurance defines the frameworks to be made available in the collection of pensions. The collected pension shall be paid to the beneficiary for life with the possibility of payment to family members under the conditions of family retirement from the first pillar of the pension system. The pensions collected shall be coordinated with the economic movements of the application of the harmonisation formula referred to in the first pillar of the pension system. The collected pensions or lifetime severances because that is, they have the tax position of income from non-permanent work, namely funded by the employer. Finally, the collection of pensions according to all its features differs significantly from pensions from the capitalised pension system which clearly stems from its comparison contained in the equipment as well as the proposed law which was at the first reading in this House and the final proposal of the law that is before you. On the same basis, this final bill is also based. On the occasion of the first reading, we have received the following comments on the Proposal of Lifelongings Act, or the purchase of a pension. The Government of the Republic of Croatia considered that Article 4(1) needed to increase the company's core capital for the purchase of pensions from the proposed 5 million kuna to 26.5 million kuna. In addition, the Government of the Republic of Croatia considered the deadlines for the coordination of operations and the technical reserve of companies for the purchase of pensions in Article 36 to be too long. The Labour, Pension and Social Partnership Committee of the Croatian Parliament has proposed an amendment to Article 12(2) so that members of the family achieve a proportionate part of the pension obtained after the death of the users, instead of being able to achieve a proportionate part of the pension collected as previously stated. The Finance Committee of the Croatian Parliament requested the removal of the alternative in Article 32 under which the supervision of the implementation of this law would be carried out by the Ministry of Finance. Independent Croatian trade unions have commented on Article 13(2) of Regulation (EU) No 1305/2013 that an employee is obliged to give an employer consent to the purchase of a pension, considering that, in the short run, the appropriations provided for in respect of the purchase of a pension belong to the employees. All of these comments were taken into account when the final draft law was drawn up, and Article 4(1) suggested a sum of 10 million kuna instead of the previous 5, the minimum amount of the basic capital of the pension company for the purchase of pensions. We consider the amount too high 26.5 million kuna proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia, of course the Government has agreed in its opinion. This is the minimum amount of the underlying capital according to the European Union rules for asset insurance companies and persons. The pension companies are not property insurance companies and persons, but business entities operating in the labour market. Moreover, the provision of the proposed minimum capital would prevent a competition for the implementation of pension purchases, as it is estimated that no one will be willing to invest such money for business in such a market activity as this. Therefore, by proposing a minimum base capital of 10 million kuna, this proposal was partially accepted by the Government, with which the Government agreed in its opinion. Article 12(2) adopted the proposal of the Committee on Labour, Pensions and Social Partnership and corrected the formulation so that family members achieve a proportionate part of the pension obtained after the death of the users, instead of being able to achieve a proportionate part of the pension collected. Article 13(2) regarding the opinion of the Independent Croatian Trade Unions has corrected the wording of point 2 by which the future beneficiary of the collection of pensions in the process of social agreement with the employer must give written consent to the payment of the pension collected, since that consent is part of the Agreement on the termination of the labour contract. However, the shortfall of that consent does not also mean the payment to the worker of the amount set for the collection of pensions, as such provisions are not in the proposed law, so the funds for the addition of pensions for that worker remain an employer, so the part of the opinion of the Independent Croatian trade unions could not be adopted. The opinion of the Finance Committee of the Croatian Parliament was adopted in Article 32, and the supervision of the implementation of the proposed law will be carried out by the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency. In Article 36a, as regards the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to align the investment of technical reserve funds within six months of the entry into force of the proposed law, a single deadline shall be proposed until 31 December 2015, which shall nevertheless be considered possible in this case, given the unrealistic and objectively too short of the proposed deadline of 6 months. The proposal by the Government of the Republic of Croatia on the deadlines for compliance with the new law is also accepted. It should also be noted that now that the Government of the Republic of Croatia has submitted a final proposal for a second reading in the form of amendments, it has requested certain amendments to the final draft laws relating to the business and supervision of the Pensions Association, the structure of their assets for the payment of the pensions acquired, as well as some legal and technical improvements in the text of the law. I must say, this law has been the subject of the attention of a large number of ministries. I'd be thrilled to see every law pass that way by the bang of all ministries and that everyone makes their contribution in the sense that the law improves. On this law they gave their opinion to the Ministry of Economy, Ministry of Finance, of course the Home Ministry of Labour and Pension System, with the proposed opinions of the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency, the Ministry of Justice, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Office for the Law of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and so they all had it under a special glass of pleasure. I have no problem at all as a proposing that a large number of amendments, but that is, what should always happen is that we all work together to increase the quality of the law and that we are all focused on the safety of the users of this institute. The text of the amendment, or all the amendments, is in front of you, you got it on the bench. There are 16 amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, two of which are new, all nomotechnical improvements remain. We have three amendments to the Legislative Committee, and we have one proposing, or colleague, Zeljko Shemper. We practically have 20 amendments. All 20 amendments the Proposer accepts because they have practically united this text and there is no longer any dispute in the text of this law. Of course, our last amendment to our colleague, Zeljko Schemper, was to bring the text of the law into line with the amendments of the government. We had to drop one point in Article 28. Finally, I invite you to discuss the final proposal for a life-long severance bill, or the purchase of a pension. It is my wish that, even as a first reading, you can contribute and support your support for this law because we are working, we are building an institute that will be very necessary in the future. There will be less and less money in public companies that have given high severance and everywhere, and the need for greater social security of workers will grow in the long term. It was nice when people took one high severance in the short term. Be careful after that, that severance is going to some used car, and then we all wonder together, because 300, 400, 500 kuna is missing from early retirement and so on. life-long penalization. This law makes it possible, of course, on a voluntary basis without forcing the worker to specify that he has compensation for damages and that the employer compensates him for the damage he will have due to his departure to early retirement. So the frameworks are defined and there is definitely nothing controversial here, so I say I just want this product, the product of good practice and good social dialogue in the Republic of Croatia as much as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62151	Thank you, too. On behalf of the board, does anyone want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of SDP Representative Gordan Sobol. Here you go, pals.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62152	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. As the promoter has said before us, the final proposal for a life-long pay law, i.e. the purchase of a pension, and right at the beginning on behalf of the SDP club, is to support the adoption of this law. In fact, even during the debate in the first reading, we stressed our agreement with the adoption of this law with certain warning fences that were then expressed in the government's opinion delivered. The Institute of Pensions itself is an institute that has not been unknown in Croatia and has been existent for 20 years since we left the Institute of Retirement. The purchase of a pension for those who do not meet the legally prescribed conditions for retirement allows them to receive the part of the pension they would receive for the rest of their lives in order to meet the conditions laid down by law. In this way, those who conclude an appropriate contract are not ultimately the amount of their monthly incomes so to say punished for early retirement. All over the past years, the Institute of Pensions has been accepted by social partners, has also been incorporated into collective agreements, however, all those years have not been regulated normably. It is considered a type of severance but not paid once a month for the amount for which the user is damaged due to his earlier retirement but not by his own guilt. In fact, the Institute of Pensions is a model of care, said the proposer, which is carried out most often by rationalising the number of employees in the restructuring process when taking care is usually starting with the workers who are missing so to say for a few years for retirement. Therefore, it is a contractual suspension of the employment relationship with the collection of pensions. Today, about 4500 users receive this supplement, somewhere around 250 employers or business entities have taken advantage of this possibility, but as I said the Institute was not regulated by law and only one company is currently engaged in this institute, or this business, there are, or rather, constant objections to this society in relation to the HANFA which constantly warns users or those who should just become aware of the fact that pension purchases work exclusively at their own risk. As a SDP club, we specifically warned of certain shortcomings in the first reading, but after a while, we received an improved proposal and how the promoter said that they accept all the amendments that the Government has made and we believe that the final draft of the law has actually obtained the conditions for this law to be accepted. In fact, somewhere in that first reading, the basic requirement was for the bill to be complemented in such a way that the beneficiaries of the pensions collected had the same position as the beneficiaries of the pension insurance companies or life insurance for the safety of the payment of pensions, which seems to us that we should all be naturally in the first plan and of the greatest interest. In the Parliament, meanwhile, he went to first reading and a package of laws, including the Bill on Pension Insurance Companies, which among other things regulates the Institute of Pensions purchases through the ILO and are all under the supervision of HANFA. From the point of view of consumer safety, we believe that this is very important regardless of, of course, the final choice remains on potential users who choose an insurance company to whom they will, of course, give a part of the risk to themselves. As I have therefore said that all the amendments of the Government to this final draft of the law have gone exactly in this direction, and the promoter has also accepted them, so at the club we support the adoption of this law and we support the proposal for a conclusion that you have made as a proposal, which is why we believe that it is absolutely necessary in view of the adoption of all amendments. Somewhere you said yourself that it's about 20 and then they change to a significant extent to say and label the articles of the law, and we think it's a good idea to make a good consolidated text of the law at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62153	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Club of Representatives of HSU Željko Shemper. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62154	Thank you, Mr. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues. The whole final bill can be roughly divided into two wholes. The first refers to the Institute of Life Retribution, or the purchase of pensions, to its implementation and the role of the pension society, and to the beneficiaries of pension purchases, and the second is to the financial business and supervision. The first whole which speaks of the purchase of a pension as a labour law institute resulting from the volunteering and agreement of social partners resting on the principles of solidarity, subsidiarity, justice and social dialogue and partnership in order to improve the material situation of pensioners and in which it is apparent that there is no similarity to pension insurance based on individual capitalised savings or in the debates or opinions, and neither in this opinion of the Government of the Republic of Croatia has been any objections. It is obvious that this law has been able to faithfully regulate this separate labour market institute and an example of good practice that has proved useful and necessary for all social partners and to recognise the society for the purchase of pensions as a participant in social communication in ways for which there are examples in Europe but normative boredom not in Croatia. However, you know that on the draft law on the exercise of supervision of the implementation of this law, we have provided for the Croatian Financial Services Supervisory Agency as an alternative and Ministry of Finance but we have adopted the opinion of the Finance Committee of the Croatian Parliament and in the final proposal we have removed this alternative by making it clear in the parliamentary debate on 12 July 2013 that the HANFA has so far not had such a combined system of defined contributions and defined givings in mind. However, it is precisely the requirements, objections and the opinion of HANFA that have had a crucial impact on these amendments to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, and we will accept it from the fact that they do not change the essence of this Institute or its provisions, the implementation of which we consider to be additional safeguards for the protection of existing and future pension beneficiaries by facilitating the enforceable supervision of the long-term, material and social security of users, as well as termological and no-technical compliance and in the function of adopting a quality and long-term applicable law. In doing so, we have taken into account both the emphasis and the warnings of the high-level debates of parliamentarians that there should be no such restrictions, conditions and provisions in this law, so that it becomes inequitable to avoid destroying what already exists in practice, but we have also taken account of the current Croatian legislation and the EU acquis on the current practice which is the basis of this law and the originality of this institute. By adopting all 16 amendments to the final draft law, we will still have a small but clear, understandable and enforceable law to meet the announced objective of this law, which is to establish the necessary legal framework for the security of funds financed by pension purchase and regulate supervision, and to allow a greater number of interested entrepreneurs to implement this institute under the same, i.e. Legally prescribed conditions and thus encourage a competition by equal rules of the game. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62155	Thank you, too. On behalf of HDZ representative Ante Babic's club. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62156	Dear Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and colleagues. Retirement is the difference between early retirement and retirement that an employee would have made if he had remained in a working relationship until going to regular retirement, in a way a life-long severance paid in monthly meals by a company. As has been pointed out several times during this debate on this bill in the first reading of the Institute of Life Retirement or the purchase of a pension for many years. After a time-out, it can be concluded that all those who have entered the system receive an orderly fee from the still existing and only company involved in the work. According to some data from the births of intergenerational solidarity, more than 250 companies in Croatia apply the principle of pension purchase. Social partners also considered pensions to be good practice but what was missing was the regulation of the area. This system of lifetime severance or retirement is not related to the pension system in terms of giving and obligation but rather to the type of severance, better said instead of one-time severance. One-time severance may sound better at the very beginning because it is always a larger amount of money, but it is usually spent quickly because regular pensions are too small and additional means to meet life’s needs and not the specific needs of life but those that we would classify among the daily ones. After spending that money, there are often problems. On this side, this life-time severance model seems more appropriate for all those who leave early retirement to receive the amount of the severance payment in monthly payments, which together with a regular pension makes up the total amount of pension that someone who would have left early in retirement. The purpose of the purchase is to mitigate the consequences of early retirement and this social care measure for those workers who agree to terminate employment with the employer while their employer in return improves the financial situation in retirement for the amount of the missing pension. Apparently, at least according to the applicant's arguments for the first reading law, this will increase the number of satisfied pensioners. Long-term practice of the new model has shown its acceptance by the users and by the social partners, as well as by entrepreneurs whose cost and cost is the cost of a lifetime’s severance, i.e. the very purchase of a pension. Entrepreneurs and employers have been left to choose whether they want to bear the cost with one payment or monthly meals, and this possibility is often easier for many businesses and employers to pay in monthly meals, given their business and overall economic situation. Also, employers who wish to create conditions for new employment and employees do not have the conditions to retire under the pension law and, in particular, now that conditions are extended or the age-limits are extended, they are required to exercise the right to leave in a regular retirement pension can stimulate employees through incentive severance, payment of a pension premium or a combination of these same opportunities, these options. The entire institute is now being put into legal regulation, which is welcomed, although it is regulatory and practice in the EU, allow certain contributions within the world of work that complement the social security of workers to the law at all, if they are of a optional nature, rather than by the decision of the union's employer, contract or collective contract and social innovation, to actually be free of entrepreneurship. But given what this project has experienced throughout the years by regulators, it should be made quite plain to say where often times and doubted whether the existence of this institute was legal at all, it is good that it will now be regulated by law so that we do not ultimately destroy something that started out of good practice, from a good product that received both the certificate and the original Croatian name. It is likely that even more intensive in the coming time that the institute will be used by both entrepreneurs and workers who want to retire early. Of course, the team does not address the labour market issue in terms of early people's retirement, nor does the problems of all who today's pension system, of course, are solved. What concerns us a little is that, in mid-July of this year, only a few days after the final debate on this legislative proposal was concluded in the first reading by the Ministry of Labour and Pensions System, a proposal for the Pension Insurance Companies Act was launched, also showing up at the Institute of Pensions Purchase. We discussed this proposal of the Law on 28 November and the public debate and consultation on the law lasted until 24 October. What is worrying about in the proposal of the Pension Insurance Society Act is that the purchase of a pension is not exclusively a way of providing extra workers to retirement, as is the case with this proposal of HSU law. So we have two laws. One in which pension is part of labour law and severance and the other in which it is part of the pension system and the third pension pillar. And that is exactly what the home working body of the Assembly, the Labour Committee, the pension system and the social partnership in the first reading stressed that it is necessary to distinguish pensions from voluntary pensions from the third pension pillar or the fact that the Institute of Pensions is part of the labour market system rather than the pension system. The question is why and what are the intentions and the real reasons for this parallel law. We see that the Final Proposal of the Lifelong Retirement Act includes the conclusion of the Committee on Finance and the State Budget from the first reading to exclude from the bill an alternative to who exercises supervision of the company's operations for the purchase of pensions, which is now implemented by the Financial Services Supervisory Agency. While in the first reading there was the possibility of either the agency or the Ministry of Finance doing so. The agency is also... and notices on the use of derivative instruments and it may prohibit or restrict investment in certain forms of assets if it is assessed that significant market disturbances have occurred, which is actually good. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] However, there is no neutral surveillance prior to the investments mentioned above, and we consider it one of the shortcomings of this law. We see that the first-reading government's opinions are also included in the new text of this bill, which continues to feel that appropriate amendments and additions need to be made in order to more precisely regulate certain provisions that have included a total of 16 amendments, which we have heard two new amendments and you have said 14 nomotechnical amendments and another 6 amendments from fellow Members of the Shemper. One, one. The proposed legislation also notes the possibility that the pension-purchasing company will generate its incomes among other things and through its own resources operations and the funds for the payment of purchased pensions remaining after the payment of their liabilities, which the potential beneficiaries will certainly not like about the purchase of pensions. However, it is not specified within which time period, or how often and at which point, it is estimated how much funding is left for the payment of the pensions obtained. In any case, the Croatian Democratic Community Club believes that it is good to regulate this Institute's collection of pensions with a legal framework, but it is also not good for an institute to be arranged through two different legal rules that have different assumptions and views in their basics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62157	On behalf of the Croatian National Party Club Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62158	Thank you, Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and colleagues, respected promoters. So on behalf of the Croatian People's Party Club, I say we will support this law, the final proposal of the Life Retirement Act, or the purchase of a pension because it is one of them, I will say better laws that regulate the purchase of pensions but one of the laws that came out of practice, which came out of need. And who not only regulates everything that wasn't regulated enough, and it wasn't regulated enough as soon as we had to have a new law, but it opens up space to really live and even stronger and stronger in life. What we really need to say is that when we pass a law that provides early retirement on a voluntary, voluntary basis, the basis between the employer and the worker, the workers, something that regulates both safety and worker but also the employer in good desire and intent to provide the worker with not the severance he can, this law clearly states that he does not exclude the right to severances that are made by other regulations. But who really wants to give his worker his long-term pension from generation solidarity the means that will give him the opportunity to have a better quality life and a better quality long-term income in the long term is something that ensures that he can actually live this in a stronger form. And especially the moment the proposer in the introduction spoke and said that not today nor practice will be in the future to go with large and high one-time severances. And in this way, there is really room for the employer and employee to agree because reason and employers and citizens always existed, or workers. And that deal tomorrow on employee security to tell me that you give me this lifetime severance and don't give me that right away because it has security. And what the debate was about who would control, it's HANFA that when it controls both pension funds and their placements in bonds or securities it's done on a daily basis. Therefore, this security, of course, is always extremely important in money that this law does not open the space for a voluntary, voluntary relationship between the employer and the worker to be defined by the legal framework to give the legal framework the security to get into it. We often don't have a chance here to discuss laws that open space, I won't now say the capital market, the ability to invest these assets in securities, but just open up one space, a new space that isn't related to the Pension Insurance Act that the colleague was saying, which is in the debate. Because this law doesn't rule out those, neither do they rule out these, but it opens up a new space. And today in the new modern world on the labour market with all the problems that employers are in, and also some unknowns in whom people today want to or do not want to go early to retirement, it opens up a space of security, something new on the market that I will certainly believe will be accepted. The very fact that I am not going to tell an unsettled space, but one space where there was no such kind of law that really strictly and exclusively manages the security account, opens the space that the number of companies that will be decided and the number of employees who will decide on one long-term security, one more quality life of tomorrow's pensioners will certainly increase and therefore, on behalf of the HNS Club, we really support this idea and the bill proposal and, of course, the debate that lasted long and it is good that it lasted long. And what makes me happy, of course, I must admit that all clubs support this law, not only the Government of the Republic of Croatia, because it shows both sensitivity and a sense of needs that employers, which workers, or future pensioners, have today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62159	Thank you. And finally, on behalf of Proposer Silvano Hrelja. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62160	Mr. Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. I am immensely happy and pleased with this debate and said support for this final proposal of a law on lifelong severance, i.e. the purchase of a pension and heart, I am pleased that we have changed the polarity of Croatia for a moment, that we have given priority to long-term social security over what is usually happening in our businesses, here is the money so I don't see you anymore. That's not good. Workers leave part of themselves in companies and it is the obligation of all employers to think of their long-term social security, so not only as they leave their best in the company but also afterwards. If we give it an advantage, then there won't be as many numbers as there will be important people, and that's why my pleasure is so great. Thank you again for the debate.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62161	Thank you, too. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote when the conditions are met. It'd be over for tonight. Tomorrow we will continue with the proposal for a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to NATO's command structure, NATO structure..., other national operations commands and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership. Have a nice rest of the evening. Session interrupted 19.23 hours.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-05-0.u62162	Final draft law on life pay, i.e. the purchase of a pension, second reading, P.Z. No. 266. The proposer of the law is the club of HSU. The debate on the text of the law is over. The amendment of the proposal was submitted within a deadline, and became an integral part of the final draft law. The proposer also accepted amendments submitted by the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Committee on Law. I'm voting on the final draft of the law. Who's in? Who's against it? Who's restrained? I'm asking for a result. We find that this law has been passed by 84 votes and 18 abstentions. In accordance with the proposal of the Club of Representatives of the HSU, I am voting on the next conclusion. The Professional Service of the Croatian Parliament is hereby authorised to conduct a revision of the text of the law on life pay, i.e. the purchase of a pension before its publication in "The People's Newspaper". Who's in? Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? The result? We've accepted the conclusion with 99 votes for it.
