ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-25-0.u54476	Dear Mr. President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In accordance with the provisions of the Law on the right to access information and after the publication of the call for implementing security checks, talks with candidates and opinions of the Information, Information and Media Committee of the Croatian Parliament, the Rules of Procedure and the political system of the Croatian Parliament propose to the Croatian Parliament to elect a Commissioner for Information between candidates who received most of the votes and this is Anamarija Musa and Sandra Križanec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-10-25-0.u54477	Thank you, too, dear colleague of the coat of honor. I'm opening a debate. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. Since, respected colleagues and colleagues, the number of candidates is higher than the number elected, we will hold a secret vote. Before we go to a secret vote, I will inform you about how to vote and determine the results. In the case of a secret vote, the provisions of Rules of Procedure of Article 260 to Article 267 shall apply. A secret vote shall be held on ballots. The ballots are the same size, colors, shapes and are certified by the Assembly's seal. The candidate's name list lists them in alphabetical order. The ballots are being prepared by the Secretary of Parliament. A number of MPs shall also assist the chairperson in the secret vote with the secretary of the plenary session. MPs who help the president conduct a secret vote hand over to voters. The handover of ballots shall be recorded on the list of MPs by rounding up a regular number in front of the name of the MP to whom the representative's list is handed. The number of ballots and places to be set shall be determined by the Secretary of Parliament. The vote in each ballot box is attended by one of the representatives elected to assist the president. In the event of a re-vote, the session shall be suspended to prepare new ballots. The vote is held again by the same procedure as the first vote. I hope it's not going to be here. Only one ballot can be voted by the representative and only by the candidates listed in the ballot in person. The MP votes by rounding up a regular number in front of the candidate's name. The ballot, which covers a regular number in front of the name of more candidates than the number to be elected, the unfulfilled ballot and the ballot from which it cannot be clearly and unequivocally determined by the candidate's representative, is considered invalid. After all present deputies handed over ballots and after the chairman announced that the vote had been completed, the vote was moved to determine the results of the vote in the session hall. The results of the vote shall be determined by the chairperson in the presence of the representatives who helped him vote on the basis of the cast ballots. The Chair shall publish the results of the elections and appointments at the same session at which the secret vote was held. The chairman shall announce how many MPs have received ballots from the funeral number, how many MPs have voted in total, how many invalid ballots and how many MPs have voted in favour of the election or nomination of an individual candidate. Furthermore, the chairman shall declare which candidates have been elected or appointed. I therefore propose that the MPs who will help me vote be Igor Češek, Zlatko Tušak, Marija Lugarić, Sonja König. That'll be enough. Any other suggestions? There isn't. I'm setting up a voting break, I think 20 minutes will be enough. I'll see you here in Parliament at 12.15 hours. Thank you very much. 12.15. [[CONTINUES AFTER MEETING IN 12.06 HOURS]] The results are as follows. A total of 151 voters received 93 MPs. 93 MPs and MPs voted, of course. There were seven wrong ballots. The results of the vote are as follows. Sandra candidate Sandra Križanec 3 votes, candidate Ana-Marie Musa 83 votes. In accordance with the results, I declare that the Commissioner for Information has been elected to honor Ana-Marie Musa. Congratulations, and I want him to do business in the public interest. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I announce that the continuation of the plenary session of the Croatian Parliament will begin on Monday 28th of this month and this year at 14.00 p.m. with the 11th item of the now established agenda Final proposal of the law on the confirmation of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic in the area of defence, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 489, etc. [[Applause.]] And on Monday, you'll get what we've put on the agenda today and order further. Have a nice weekend. We've been waiting for you Monday morning.
