ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49417	My colleagues and colleagues continue the debate at the 9th session. - Final proposal of the Law implementing the Regulation of the European Union on the protection of animals, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z.E. No. 447; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 204. The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. You received the reports at the session. The introduction of the bill will be explained by Agriculture Minister Tihomir Jakovina. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49418	I would like to thank the esteemed Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, dear colleagues and fellow parliamentary representatives. We have before us the Law implementing the EU Animal Protection Regulation establishing the competent authority, the handling of competent authorities, inspection and infringements provisions for the implementation of a total of 8 EU animal protection regulations, which provides for the following: - the prohibition of the use of columns in the EU Member States and of the Republic of Croatia as well as the introduction into the EU of fur, certain wild animal species and other products thereof. In total, it covers two regulations. Furthermore, the introduction of fur and other products is not possible from countries using traps to catch animals or other methods contrary to international humanitarian standards. Under 2. – prescribes conditions for a resting place for animals on which at least 12 hours or longer stay animals pass. Under 3. — the protection of animals during transport and transport related procedures in order not to apply the animal protection provision during transport to the transport of their own animals by means of own means of transport carried out by farmers up to 50 km from their holding. Furthermore, to the transport of animals not related to the performance of economic activity and to the transport of animals directly to the veterinarian. The regulations also prohibit the placing on the market of imports and exports into the EU of cat and dog fur and products containing such fur. The introduction into the EU of seal products originating in the Eskimo and other indigenous communities from Canada, Russia and Alaska and Greenland into the market. Under 6. – the protection of animals grown and held for the production of food, wool, skin, fur. At the time of death, animals must be spared any unnecessary pain, discomfort or suffering at the time of death or with the execution of related procedures. The most important issue to be addressed by this law is that it lays down the competent authority for the implementation of the Regulations of the Ministry of Agriculture, the basis for the competent authority's conduct is established in accordance with the Regulations for the authorisation and approval of the prescribed Regulations and the abolition of those approvals and certificates. In order to carry out the training activities of personnel, carriers and persons involved in the killing of animals, independent scientific support has been established for the Ministry of Agriculture as a competent authority by a legal person carrying out scientific and research activities and providing professional assistance in the field of protection, animal welfare related to the protection of animals during the execution and the execution of related procedures. Under 3. - it is determined who, in accordance with the division of competence, determines specific rules and conducts inspection controls on the conduct of regulations. These are veterinary inspectors, animal rest control, animal protection during transport and transport of related procedures and animal protection at the time of death and with the execution of related procedures. Hunting inspectors oversee the administration of columns, customs authorities oversee the introduction of fur of wild animal species and other products and seal products as well as the introduction and export of cat and dog fur. And the State Inspectorate oversees the trade of seal products and dogs and cats. This law lays down infringements in the case of a case against regulations which can only be prescribed by law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49419	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, thank you. I'm opening a debate. The first is the Club of Representatives of Croatian Labourists and counterpart Branko Vuksic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49420	Dear Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished ministers with co-workers. Well, I don't know, my colleagues probably remember that law debate we had in the spring. This, very briefly immediately to say Croatian Labourists will support the law. And this is what the minister has said to this law to regulate the transport of animals, the ban on the use of columns, the ban on entering fur and other products from wild animals, the ban on placing on the market and the ban on entering the territory of the Republic of Croatia or exporting to the Republic of Croatia cat and dog fur and animal protection at the time of death. And it's good to read the law because we often talk here from this pay phone or from a place where our laws are often a dead letter on paper. So I appeal to all those who care about animal protection, especially the inspections that will worry here that if we really follow this law that replaces the regulations I think we'll take a big step forward and that the Animal Protection Society will be very pleased. So I'm just repeating the Croatian Labour Party will support this law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49421	Thank you very much. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Djurdzica Sumrak.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49422	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Mr. Minister with his associates. I'm sorry, I thought my colleague Vuksic would be a little longer. Today, we are facing the Proposal for a Law implementing the EU Animal Protection Regulation, with the Final Proposal for a Law. I will show you these are the regulations with which this law is harmonised, and we as a member of the EU will be harmonising all these regulations until the end, and now it is particularly 8 of the regulations that we are harmonising with as a member. It's a long way to get to one of these laws, not just this one, but generally the Animal Protection Act. First, about 1999, we had the Animal Welfare Act after that we had a lot of regulations and then in '96 we passed the first law in the Croatian Assembly on the Protection of Animals and the Animal Protection Regulations in the massacre and execution of '98 is still all history. And here today as a member of the EU, of course, and thank God that we will respect all the directives and abide by them. This legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation and provides a statement in this Annex on its compliance with the acquis of the EU and the legal acts of the Council of Europe. The adoption, as I have already said, of this law, is conditioned by the need to implement 8 EU animal protection regulations, which are regulations prohibiting the use of columns in the field of EU Member States, and the possibility of bringing into the EU furs of certain wild animals, species and other products and those animals from individual countries, which do not use pillars in the capture of animals or other methods against international human standards. The conditions for resting place for animals, which shall consist of at least 12 hours or longer of stay and of animals, the protection of animals during transport, and the prohibition of placing on the market, import or export into the EU of fur of cats and dogs and of products containing such fur, placing on the market and introduction into the EU of seal products, the protection of animals grown or held for the production of food, wool, skin, fur at the time of death. Therefore, provisions for the implementation of the EU animal protection regulations in the field of the Republic of Croatia or the provisions on the competent authority, the handling of the competent authority, inspection and infringement provisions in the case of the anti-prescription regulations, inspection of the conduct of EU animal protection regulations are laid down by veterinary, hunting inspectors, customs administration officers and the national inspectorate. Let me teach you this last inspection, that our inspections really do work hard and fair in most cases because it has to be said that the third most profitable business in the world is smuggling to protected animals. It's not just about protected animals, it's about animal protection. It's said that smuggling with such animals is more lucrative than smuggling humans. So we have also witnessed recently in the media in which imports are or are being smuggled, which is what organized criminals do. One was immediately caught in Varazdin, and he is in prison, which is being obtained by protected animals in Africa, Madagascar, Australia, America, and smuggled partly through airports, and birds, for example. They're smuggling in socks, in transportation. The most common are the wild turtles of Chanchara, various reptiles. What's saddest is that they're animals that are before extinction. And what's even sadder is that when these traffickers are caught with a wave because of the transport in small boxes in their exhaust socks, what these criminals don't remember, they're killed, and if they're found alive, they're seized, or they're placed in the zoo as far as we're concerned in Croatia or in the shelters that are intended for it. So I will use my time and call from this booth once again to really respect our protected species of animals in Croatia. It's some kinds of mammals, birds, reptiles, amphibians, spineless, our dolphins, the Mediterranean bear, the head turtle, the noble wig. The Mediterranean bear is known as a seaman, so how can anyone even think, and it can hurt a man. We see you can do that to a sea bear. But therefore, let us raise our awareness and raise our voice, protect our animals in Croatia as well. They are legally regulated and protected but here is some awareness among children, which is good in kindergartens raised that it is very important to protect these animals. We will, of course, support this bill. And I'll take advantage of the occasion since here's the Minister of Agriculture here with us today, he's always here, which I have to say unlike some other ministers who don't even need to appear in front of their deputies. But then I also have to give him a message and a farmer and ask if perhaps the Ministry of Agriculture will, by any chance, also come the Law on the Protection of Farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49423	Thank you. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49424	Comrade Sumrak, when you mentioned dolphins and there is a Minister of Agriculture who might give an answer, you certainly know these today were brought to Croatia by dolphins from America investigating the Adriatic Sea. And as far as we saw from the media reports and watched a television report, those who cared about the protection of the Adriatic have said that these dolphins could not cause any disturbances from that area and could carry some diseases and that it could be more harmful than what dolphins would investigate. It is certainly for me as a layman and many with whom I have spoken we are not sufficiently directed to whether the Ministry of Agriculture, whether the inspections, we know that the inspection has given permission, but those who care about the protection of the Adriatic say that not all experts who should have been consulted, consulted. Well, then when he's a minister, please, if you know anything about it, I know that the minister can give an answer to what's very important.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49425	The answer to the replica of Đurjica twilight.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49426	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, my knowledge is slightly different from yours, according to my knowledge, the right quarantine has been carried out, in this entire project has been attended by a number of experts both oceanography of foreign and ours. And before the dolphins were even released into search areas they were indeed quarantined for adaptation because it would not be possible to drop it from the plane into the Adriatic Sea area. That's my knowledge. I somehow always have faith, I have faith in the profession and I believe in the profession and I believe that those who deal with such affairs and with us, our experts and who take care of the sea flora and fauna lead care so far because here it is, we must be proud of our Adriatic Sea, still the cleanest sea, I would say in the world, unless we take what we can't even bathe in. Here, that's my knowledge. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49427	On behalf of SDP representative Mario Moharic. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49428	Thank you, Vice President, dear ministers with associates, colleagues and colleagues. This legislative proposal is about the prescribed implementation of the European Union Regulation relating to the area of animal protection. The Law on the Protection of Animals in Croatian Law preceded the Law on Animal Well-being in 1999 and in 2006 the Animal Protection Act was passed. And this year 2013, this Law is complemented by provisions for the taking and implementation of acts of the European Union in the form of Directives and regulations. In particular, these Regulations are also incorporated into this Proposal for a Law. The adoption of this Act provides for the need to implement several and 8 EU animal protection regulations, respectively. This Regulation shall be binding in its entirety and directly applicable in all Member States. Furthermore, the conditions for resting places for animals on which furs, cats and dogs and products containing such fur are banned from the market for at least 12 hours or longer, during transport and transport of related procedures. Placing on the market and entering into the areas of the European Union seal products and the protection of animals grown or held for the production of crane, wool, leather, fur at the time of death. Therefore, provisions for the implementation of the European Union regulations on the protection of areas in the territory of the Republic of Croatia or provisions on the competent authority, the handling of the competent authority, inspection control and infringement provisions are laid down in this law in the event of an anti-prescription procedure. We have already heard that inspection of the conduct, according to the European Union Animal Protection Regulations, is carried out by veterinary inspectors, hunting inspectors, inspectors of the State Inspectorate and customs administration officers. The adoption of this law will cease to apply certain provisions of the Animal Protection Act because it will now be implemented by this law. The rules adopted under European Union animal protection regulations will cease to apply accordingly. This legislative proposal harmonises the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with the legislation of the European Union, and supports the urgent procedure for the adoption of such a law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49429	Thank you. On behalf of HNS representative Ivica Mandic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49430	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with your associates. So without any thought, the Croatian People's Party supports the adoption of such and similar laws because these laws primarily refer to how humane our society is, how civilizedly advanced. So clearly, this law that takes care of animal protection regulates this issue in a very clear and very good way. We are also pleased that the criteria of the European Union are in the protection of animals at a very high level and that, as a full member, we will surely accept all these rules and all of these regulations. I would only say that, regardless of the adoption of this law, Croatia of 1.7. when it became a full member, it had an obligation to apply and implement all of this regulation with which this law is in conformity. What may have happened before, that this law only comes now, and we have entered the European Union 1.7, although this material came to the Parliament in early July, so I say it might be the only observation why we have not considered this before. As regards the basis for this Animal Protection Act, we must say that it is based on eight regulations, of which two regulations are related to the European Commission and those are regulations, six regulations relating to the Council of the European Communities. What is also to be commended, as well as colleagues who had discussed before me, that a few days ago in the organization of the Ministry of Environment and Customs Service was just one action that we from the HNS Club warmly welcome and support and such educational or preventive actions should be much more since in this law that we will now accept by the regulations of the European Union many of our non-smullery citizens, who are not engaged in illegal very lucrative work, who are going to visit these countries of Africa, the Far East, where certain clothing items are being taken and these are major offences and fines are for natural persons from 5 to 15 thousand. That is why there should certainly be more educational actions in which the Ministry of Agriculture should be included, given that it is the competent authority for the implementation of this law and I think that in such a way we will respond in the right way and in a good way inform our citizens how important this law is and how important it is to function. I would also point out that the welfare of animals and many sports organisations is being taken care of so that within the Croatian Cavalry Federation there are several years of exactly the provisions and regulations on which the welfare of animals is maintained. There is, of course, part of these regulations that are also related to the regulation of the European Union on transport, resting places, road plans and everything else. Here I would like to commend all those who have worked on the drafting of this law and the application, that in this law it is precisely defined by the competent authority which is the Ministry of Agriculture, which in its section of activity is co-operated with the Customs Administration and the State Inspectorate. It is also very clearly defined and supervised, which are primarily veterinary inspectors, border veterinary inspectors, customs officials, hunting inspectors, state inspectors. And with all this, I would say that we fully support and that in this law, as well as in all the other laws that we make in this House of Commons, we are the filter that will all the while impose on all the laws that are being consistently implemented in this House of Commons. Because we've been doing a lot of good, quality laws for almost two years, but unfortunately we're not going to law enforcement in our country, but we're going to law enforcement. I would therefore appeal to the Minister as a competent person in front of the Ministry of Agriculture, to the veterinary inspection, border inspection, customs and all others in this segment, to consistently implement laws for the welfare and humanity, for the welfare of animals and for the preservation of biodiversity in this world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49431	Thank you very much. colleague of Jadranka Kosor, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49432	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. My colleague Mandic noticed gently, very gently, that here today we are discussing the regulations of the European Union that we had to implement before in Croatian legislation. It is absolutely a huge failure to discuss this today and what these regulations will through this law, hence the European Union regulations, some of which have been adopted in '91. years, so back in '91. the year shall start to apply and spend three months after we have become a member of the European Union, so the first day after the publication in the National Journal. So we're here at the beginning of October, that's the gap of course we need to talk about here. Therefore, this law, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and colleagues, was to be passed in June, no later than June, and this law was to enter into force on 1 July 2013, when the Republic of Croatia became the 28th member of the European Union. And as for law enforcement and acting, I agree with you, we often witness one thing, so we bring one, and the other we do. We bring one, we vote in the Croatian Parliament, and the other we do. But the supervision of the implementation of the regulations must primarily be carried out by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49433	Replication response, Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49434	Thank you very much, dear colleague Kosor. Well, I'm very gentle because I'm kind, I'm gentle. I would say that this law is negotiated and whether we put it into office or not, we are obliged as a full member of the EU to comply with these laws. A large number of regulations that I have mentioned to the EU at the time of the '91 era. by 2010 they have been incorporated into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. As far as I know, at the beginning of something in May, we had a Law on the Protection of Animals, which in many respects incorporated all EU regulations. Normally, we could have talked about this in six months, but probably because of the dynamics of other businesses, we didn't, but that doesn't mean that as a full member we didn't respect these 1.7 provisions, which is our obligation because it was negotiated. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49435	Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49436	Well, I can tell you that I'm not very tripled by the fact that we apply three months later. God forbid that these are our greatest sins regarding the EU and all that we need to fulfill as a member of the EU, but not as an EU member, as a civilized country. I don't mean anything, remember my discussions. Nothing will change from 1.7. And nothing has changed, because we don't change. Therefore, but besides me, it actually got into Mr. Mandic's ear that said that the law shows how humane our society is. The law just shows how willing we are to write laws, not how human we are. The dogs continue to be held on chains and we continue to organize bull fights, and we declare these fights a Croatian tradition. We're famous for fighting bulls. So the whole world is studying to fight bulls on a Croatian model because we do not comply with the conditions for holding domestic animals. So we're not human. We don't care about people, we don't care about workers. I agree with my colleague, twilight, who said when we'd be protecting farmers or taking care of agriculture. So we know how to play humanity here and we know how to pretend good, but I don't think we stick to the fact that the mass of the law is just dead letters on paper.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49437	The answer to the replica Ivica Mandic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49438	Thank you very much. I will agree that the greater obligation of all of us to pass these laws is to enforce these laws. If you have listened well to me, I have finally said this and appealed to Mr. Minister that with his influence as the head of resistor that is very important in the agricultural, veterinary activities in the Republic of Croatia, these rules are strictly implemented. I will say that this law certainly comes from the facts that I mentioned in my debate that he is also civilized and that he is human and that we should implement him. What is important is to say that all these shortcomings should be eliminated and that the bigger thing than the adoption of this law whenever it was passed as we treat this problem and this law and how we will implement it in our country. The goal of all of us is for it to be implemented consistently, and that time we will be safer and more civilized and humane. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49439	Thank you. On behalf of HDSSB representative Igor Čeek's club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49440	Thank you very much, Vice President, dear ministers with assistants, colleagues and fellow MPs. Although we at the HDSSB club are very often criticising the laws that come from the agriculture portfolio, we will support this law because it is nothing but harmonisation with the European directives. And we see exactly what these EU regulations prescribe on animal protection. They prescribe a ban on the use of columns in the EU Member States and the possibility of entering into the EU fur of certain wild animals and other products of those animals from individual countries, which do not use a trap to catch animals or other methods contrary to international human standards. Now, I'm going to ask a few questions through this law, Minister, and I hope that I get answers straight here so that the public gets to know each other. How do we know whether to use columns or not? If there are any certificates that import fur from these animals or if there are no certificates. That's one of the first questions. We also see that as far as finances are concerned, funding in the state budget is provided for scientific support jobs, that's fine. I am going back to Article 1 in the very law that speaks again about these pillars and human standards. So what kind of human standards are these? That's one question. As regards the animal resting place itself, Article 5 states that the Ministry shall grant, at the request of a natural or legal person, the authorisation to meet the conditions for a place of rest for animals. Prior to the start of use of the resort and in accordance with Article 3(1) and (3) Regulation (EC) No 1255/97 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 18 December 2008 on the financial rules applicable to the general budget of the Union and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1265/97 and repealing Council Regulation (EC) No 1265/97 and Regulation (EC) No 1255/97 and Council Regulation Now I am particularly interested, I know that in the EU Member States we are also a member of the EU today there are animal resorts, whether such resting places exist in the Republic of Croatia as well. And I think it's a little complicated for drivers because they know, or they need to know where those animal resorts are. As regards meeting these conditions, they are determined by an expert commission composed of two officials of the veterinary profession, and this is a very good article because they do not interfere with these forests and agronomies. There were speeches on the board about it, and that's a good article. Now, Article 9 of vehicles of carriers used for the transport of animals on journeys not exceeding 12 hours to the final destination do not have to comply with the provisions of Chapter 6 of point 1.1.13.14.15. Regulation No 34 of the European Parliament and of the Council 1/2005. Now I'm particularly interested in this 12-hour journey, whether it's a continuous journey because, as you know, truck drivers have to take breaks, after 4.5 hours of driving, they have to have 45 minutes of breaks, and then they can have a 4.5-hour drive again and then 9 hours of breaks. What about the rest of the driver in the Republic of Croatia? So how do you align this road safety law with this law? Article 10 also tells us that drivers carrying animals and animal escorts during transport must have a certificate of training in accordance with Annex 3. What I'm particularly interested in is whether any animal-carrier must necessarily have an animal companion and what kind of profession does he have to be? Could he be a veterinary technician or could he be a farm worker or an auxiliary driver? These are questions that we say are unclear. As regards Article 11 of the prohibition on the placing on the market and introduction into the territory of the Republic of Croatia or the export of rH fur of cats and dogs and products containing such fur, I fully support this article. It's about this law that's good and it's good to be effective. We, of course, support him at the HDSSB club, only here are a few of these misunderstandings if you can explain it to me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49441	Thank you very much. Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49442	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President of the Croatian Parliament. Dear fellow Czechs, I agree with your debate and I am glad that you have asked these questions, but I would like you to know that the Minister will answer you in one part and I would like to say that when the negotiations are over, and also when we have negotiated in particular Chapter 12 when negotiations have been very much installed. We installed our legislation, especially the Veterinary Act, so we had the Animal Wellbeing Act, so you remember, but you're young, you may not remember, then there were big debates. That's exactly what transportation needs to be about, so what animal transport vehicles have to be like. Indeed, we can be proud, you know, because both the former Minister and the Ministry of Agriculture, the hard-working negotiations led with the Government of the Republic of Croatia, the painful, sometimes strange, for farmers and for the profession. But here it is, we're doing this alignment without a problem today, these are shades attached to the column. As far as the escorts are concerned, they must be certified. So it shouldn't be exactly an agronomic technician, but it's got to be that certification at the Veterinary College, so it's some of that sort of stuff. And that's good because sometimes, up to fairs or fairs or transported from one end of Croatia to another open animal without air, without water, without being able to stand at all. Today, of course, this must not be done but there is a accompanying documentation that monitors such transport, there is an inspection that follows it and, of course, it is also about conscience. But there's an important role for the M.O. to play when he sees that he's doing a simple check. There.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49443	Replication response, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49444	Thank you so much for your replica. I've just asked that question in order to raise some kind of debate on these issues because that's what the public is interested in. So, is it mandatory to be that animal escort because people who see in the law Regulation No. 1/2005. So people don't understand, and it's hard for them to find those regulations. That is why I asked these few questions so that the public would know exactly what was going on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49445	We move to an individual debate, first colleague Boris Blazekovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49446	Thank you, Madam Vice President, Mr. Minister with his associates. The law itself and some details of the law on behalf of the CNS was discussed by my colleague Mandic, and I will approach the whole problem differently, so I will repeat one of my discussions. It is, in fact, important to talk except about the crisis in the economy and the crisis in society and about us, about us as people, about us as individuals who live in the community with other individuals and individuals. It is important to talk about us and our efforts to live in an orderly society, a society in which we can realize our personal talents and achieve our ambitions. We are all born, not by our own free will, as free individuals and individuals with the right to life, the right to security, the right to freedom and the right to happiness. As adult individuals, or individuals, we have voluntarily decided that we want to live in an orderly community and that is why we have founded the state. She, the state, is here to ensure our safety, to protect us from ourselves and from outside threats. The state is tasked with providing us with an equal framework in which we are all equally fulfilling our wishes and our ambitions according to our personalities, the talents within the legal order. We also decided that we want a social state. In a developed world, so-called Western civilizations are the most modern and advanced countries in whose circle we have recently entered and show the highest levels of humanity and sensitivity to any suffering. Modern societies, apart from suffering, are increasingly understanding animal suffering. Modern societies establish animal rights and protect them by legal regulations. Thank God and Croatia is such a society. Mahatma Gandhi wrote "The size and moral progress of a people will be measured by how they treat animals." In today's world, we are increasingly approaching the ideals of the rights of all living things. Still in the collective consciousness of all nations and states, the opinion of the necessary breeding of animals for food is prevailing, and this will rarely be denied by the state within a longer period. However, strict rules are laid down on how to kill these animals with direct provisions of technical precise instructions and methods of breeding and on how to kill animals for human consumption in order to minimise the suffering of these animals. There are growing restrictions on breeding animals for fur and skin, and there society is becoming increasingly aware. Today society condemns and states ban various experiments on animals, exploitation of circus animals, and maximum humanization of zoos. Pets become family members, and veterinarians simply become family doctors. The awareness of rights and humane relations against animals is growing. It is true that somewhere someone wrote that our descendants will be surprised at us in the distant future and will view our age as a time of carelessness for nature and the environment and as a period of cruelty against animals, and it will likely be difficult for them to understand that we have been so unreasonable to the natural environment and inhumane compared to animals. Humanity is a general and accepted position toward which individual individuals act. These are the happiness and well-being of individuals and society, respect for the dignity of the identity and life of man, the development of man, allowing the development of dignity and freedom of people in society. Philosophy of humanism often discussed the desirable qualities of humanity especially on topics such as human beings or human beings. The main objective of humanism was the peaceful tolerance and cultivation of human behavior. Johan Gotfrid Herder felt that humanity was only a partial arrangement and that it had yet to develop after birth. The development of humanity must continue over and over again or we will sink back into raw animality and brutality. According to theory, man can reduce or increase his position of humanity according to his works. Work that increases humanity contains good goals such as kindness, goodness, humanity, mercy, and compassion. The theory of the humanist also defined the unwanted behavior of the so-called. Inhumanity. Philosopher Ciceron asked the question, "What makes a man human?"and I said to myself, "A man who doesn't care about other people is not human, he's inhuman." According to the same reasoning, individuals can become human or inhuman by means of good or bad deeds. Although, according to some definitions, humanity is defined as the moral behavior of a person in accordance with the ethical values set in a particular community, it often happens when a community is radicalized that these individuals are opposed to the aggression imposed on them. The principle of humanity refers to the equality of all people regardless of origin and gender, human dignity and pacifism, or refusal to attack others. It also contains tolerance and respect for all persons and their beliefs, and in some ways respect for animals and nature in general. Humanity is often associated with spirituality. Humanity is the cornerstone of human rights and in most democratic states of the world that have slowly developed throughout history. The harsh violation of human rights during the war, dictatorship or exploitation of a nation is sometimes a crime against humanity. Terry Eagleton has developed a theory that evil in humans is somebody else's name, but it's also a human battle against evil. Namely, every evil lasts and may last for a shorter or longer period, but it is human nature to recognize that evil is fighting evil and that the struggle against evil often has fewer groups to turn into the fight of entire society against evil until a certain evil is won. Good, or humanity in the end always wins because with reason, it is stronger than evil. Humanity is especially manifested in relation to the weak and the powerless. Animals are completely impossible compared to humans, and they are in the cruel power of humans. People are increasingly aware that cruelty to animals is evil and are increasingly aware of their animal protection obligations. That is why laws are passed that determine a more humane attitude towards animals and protect animal rights. These laws, except that they make animals worse in this case, make us humans more human, and clearly as my colleagues from the HNS Club, I will support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49447	Thank you very much. A colleague, Frano Matušić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49448	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So in order not to turn out that today we only talk dryly about harmonising the articles of the law with EU regulations that have been passed to us in different time periods, I would start my exposure to one of the answers given by one person when asked in a show that deals naturally with a positive relationship with animals, and it wasn't from Croatia or from a Croatian show, from a neighbouring country, they asked her what animals you loved the most. Then the person in question said, I prefer pork, beef, lamb and goat. So in order not only to keep this debate in line with the articles of the law, I really liked the discussions of a previous colleague who spoke about the need to have a completely different consciousness and attitude towards animals. And I would say that it's tragic for our society not only for this delay, because this delay is just one time alignment with these regulations, but it's tragic that we haven't built into certain laws much before, that we haven't installed the need to treat animals quite differently. Here we are colleagues, but if we were then, we would not have these regulations that further strengthen the awareness of all of us in the Croatian Parliament and in the Croatian public. In fact, animals can be the best friend to man, as we could see from numerous examples not only in Croatia but throughout the world, but man can be the greatest enemy of animals. The man is the cause of the extinction of numerous animal species. Man's greed for money and greed for social status can be a cause for endangering the balance on our planet. I'll just mention a few examples, for example. The nearly extermination of a beautiful animal who even cares about a fire, which has an innate instinct where fire gallopes and puts out that fire. Just because he has that nose, or that tusk as it's already called, that horn, which is unfortunately here in the use of individuals who are commercially trying to use that horn for various objects, is why this animal is threatened, therefore, before extinction. The other animal is an elephant. The elephant was much more widespread on the globe than it is today for the tusks, for an elephant who probably graces numerous homes around the world. So this just shows what a man is willing to do to neglect, we can't say the rights because those rights are not written anywhere but let's say I'll tell God's laws. By ignoring God’s laws of relations with living things, he is actually ready to destroy everything around him. But if that wasn't a lonely example enough to say wars where man is willing to destroy others, destroy other people and destroy other countries to achieve his own interest. So we live in a century that will certainly be much more advanced, I hope deeply than the last century where wars were the main features. We had our own home war where our neighbors were willing to wipe us out. So it's clear what we're talking about. We're talking about the need for consciousness, our consciousness to be completely different. I'm going to say one historical example, and that's St. Francis versus animals. It's probably a role model for all those who know what I'm talking about, what kind of attitude to animals should be. And that's why I'm saddened here by a formula that reads, says, this law is passed to protect animals at the time of death. If there is a larger paradox, I agree, I understand the meaning of this sentence, here is the word animal protection that is grown or held for the production of food, wool, skin or fur at the time of death. Can you protect someone who wants to be killed? Let's at least change that formula. Let's at least change that so we don't turn out like this, I'd say very cruelly, in our legislation, and in our explanation, it says animal protection at the time of death. Clearly, then, we need a different awareness of what we are surrounded by and how we will approach these problems. So talk about domestic animals. Here's a colleague of mine just before he said it, and the dogs are on chains. Yeah, that's an interesting finding. But let's just say that when a pit bull goes to meet you without a chain, it's such an angry question as to take action. ... And you meant the chain of this metal and iron, yes, yes. [[You can't hear the intruder.]] Okay, but these types of animals are obviously very difficult to train well, they're rare, very few of those who, like that gentleman on television who has a TV show that calms dogs and who has one special relationship but probably one of the hundred million of them who have dogs and who can access animals in such a way, calm them down and be really, feel their needs and what those animals need at that particular moment. So this relationship with domestic animals is also very questionable. The fact that you have many owners who leave their animals, that is, leaving them in various places and creating a social problem. Currently here a few days ago in Romania's Constitutional Court, imagine the Romanian Constitutional Court ruling that these dogs, which have tens of thousands in the capital of Bucharest, should be killed. So this relationship, again, that killing actually caused man by his bad behavior toward those same animals. People who import fur from protected animals and other wild animals that are protected by law in this case and in fact forbid I wouldn't comment too much. I think it's clear to everyone what this is all about. But you really need to see the consequences of this law. Now I'm going back to law school, I think I've talked enough about this one general aspect. In fact, my colleague Chesek was already talking about escorts. Are the carriers carrying animals today, or are they aware of what they will need. There's talk of resting places, what kind of resting places will be, where there'll be rest stops. Where will be the resting places, which places, who will control them? So is the veterinary inspectorate capacitated with enough inspectors to behave? My colleague shows me something to eat. Okay. [[/Intruder: Yes. And your colleague tells you.]] I want to believe you, but let's just say we have cases of building inspectors. I don't know if it's the same case. The same answer would have been received from the Department of Construction, probably said it was covered by building inspectors. However, a construction inspector in a county he cannot visit in one day. That's the case, like Dubrovnik-Neretva County. He can't visit our county in one day. Go to Lastovo and come back for literally two days. So the issue of applying this law is really something that is extremely important. And I doubt that these assets that are here are enough, but here I hope you will disprove me in these statements. I want to believe that everything is really prepared in a way that all the carriers involved in this business are well-acquainted and functioning already on that principle. But I also want to believe that the control of these jobs is really going to increase. Because you say it is, yes, it may be, but I still see many furs from some protected animals around us. Not right now because it's still summer, autumn, but in a few months we'll see about that. I really appeal to.../The speaker excluded./... a different attitude towards animals is absolutely necessary and awareness that we need to change ourselves in this relationship is very important. Here's hoping that this law... the regulations will contribute to that, too, if anything, at least then to those everyday problems that occur both in animal breeding and in their transport and in everything that is unfortunately related to economic exploitation.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49449	Thank you very much. We have a few replicas. Hansel Mandic, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49450	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. I would not want to hurt my colleague, but in the time when my colleague was a Europarliamentary, we discussed the mass of these regulations and incorporated them into the legislation of the Republic of Croatia. Furthermore, what I agree with you is that it is certainly necessary to strengthen the awareness of all of us, and it is good that we talk about this subject more than we had before when we had this point, which was usually 9 or 10 in the evening. So here we should send a message to the public that this is a very important problem because this law is not an animal problem, the problem is people, the problem is human and I would say that a large number of people in the Republic of Croatia are both civilized and human and it is known that the Republic of Croatia and especially its farmers are good farmers, that they have a lot of love, a lot of knowledge. Therefore, we should work together to raise awareness. And as for the functioning of this law, it works I think it's about two or three years, that the Veterinary Faculty of Zagreb is the one who issues certificates and that all those who want to be escorts must pay for their cost, so that money is enough and that all other training goes to the expense of those who ask for it. Let's just say that as a cattle engineer, I can't be a companion, and the only job in life was working with animals. So, the Veterinary College has prescribed a certain part of the knowledge that you must have in essence to improve animal safety and I think it's good and it's good that this law is ahead of us and that this is how we discuss it, but never enough debate from kindergarten, primary school, high school and to this kind of debate in society. That's why I was in my debate and said that the Ministry should be involved in this kind of promotional activity that was at the Zagreb airport a few days ago, because as far as I know, there are 33,000 endangered plant and animal species in this world. And you've probably heard that for this biggest disaster in elephants, poisoning with...
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49451	Thank you very much. Replication response, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49452	I agree with my colleague, perhaps while I was an observer in the European Parliament, I missed some debates which I am sorry, because I would participate in them myself. But indeed, the question and I agree with you that certainly the vast majority of people in Croatia have a positive and good relationship with animals, but unfortunately there are also those who do not, and because of them today, say what I'm saying, not because of those who have awareness of how it is necessary to treat animals, but because of those who obviously do not understand it, and because of which there is also smuggling of certain species of animals and why there is smuggling, or the acquisition of certain furs that are protected or wild animals, etc. And that's why these laws are actually passed. Because of me, I certainly shouldn't, certainly not because of you and the other colleagues here in the Parliament. But what is needed is to highlight the really need for education, and I would say another relationship to the nature in which we live because that nature is really this whole and animal and plant world, and also mineral if you want it is something that we should get to know each other in a different way and educate each other, and I think that school should absolutely play a stronger role in this matter, and I am convinced that it will change. Someone mentioned the pet zoos. Look, it may have been very attractive in the 19th century when they started, when they started romantic research across the countries of Africa, etc., but today when you observe these animals in these cages that don't live in their natural habitats, then no matter what the phenomenal relationship these veterinarians and those people who deal with it, the teammates, etc., regardless, these animals actually live in prisons, in those cages that simply aren't their habitats and really need to see how to approach these problems, because today Europe is also dealing with this problem. He's actually dealing with the problem that these zoos are shrinking as much as possible and that somehow they disappear in the future because what these animals are suffering in these conditions is really not appropriate, regardless of the need for man to get acquainted with all animal species.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49453	Thank you very much. Branko Vuksic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49454	Dear fellow Matusic, I share my suspicions about the implementation of this law. We may be better to animals than to ourselves, or to other people. It may be good to show a human side, if we are not human to ourselves, so let's show a fraction of humanity. Of course I wonder... an animal, those who deal with it more, who convince us that there are inspections, there are controls. But this is everything we experience every day, this is what you said about building inspectors, let's say I've never seen a construction inspector who missed all the illegal constructions, etc., it could've been fainted, etc. There are no simple building inspectors, those who are not doing their job right. When I was talking about dogs on chains, I'm not on the leash of the dogs I need, which is mandatory, regulation, but dogs on chains that are on chains all the time, and the more irritable they are, the happier the bosses are at being banned. Of course I could use what you were saying, actually, the exposure was about the general aspect of the law. To me, this general aspect of the law that you were talking about is much more interesting than I am the law, because I am the law prescribes certain provisions and you said that animal is the best man's friend you've told the famous one. But what kind of society we live in, and what times we live in, it seems to me that animals are often the only honest human friend.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49455	Reply to the replica Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49456	Yeah, we're starting a philosophical discussion if we have real friends, that's a question for everyone. But when you mentioned the inspectorates, I just remembered one case in Dubrovnik we have one building inspector for the entire county. You've issued one solution to destroying the antenna pillars. The antenna of our top owners of various telecommunications houses that are on one building that is in the heart of a settlement where tens of thousands of people have mounted no less than 21 antennas. In the vicinity of that building where these 21 antennas live, tens of thousands of people, and the people closest to that have various cancer diseases and beyond, you have some diseases that people don't know why they're sick, at least official medicine couldn't confirm. And regardless of the 2011 decision on the destruction of such objects, no one is acting on them. The minister is willing to tear down some houses where people live who have been building for various reasons. I'm not against where it simply shouldn't be built to bring it down, where protected coastal belts, protected parts of nature should not be built, etc. But there were situations where people saw the entire settlements were nickeled and were ready to tear down that house that was solving perhaps one social issue before they were ready to tear down one object for which they issued a permit for destruction and harm people, damage people. And then what are we gonna talk about? Now we're gonna talk about animals again. So people destroy people and don't have this normal relationship with each other because they're willing to do everything for profit and kill each other and that's the fact of today's world, and we all have to fight it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49457	Miss twilight, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49458	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Well, dear fellow Matušić, you have indeed had an artistic-philosophy debate about this law and you have asked a number of philosophical questions that can be answered as well, so here you have asked a question about animal protection when you die. It's already been settled legally in the welfare of animals, and that's just as hard a brutal murder, an easy murder. I've always wondered murder is murder, and killing animals is dying. But there are really drastic examples of animal death in the most drastic way of beatings and similar to what is naturally punishable. Then you said, you spoke philosophically about the attitude of people to animals and, of course, you should mention war, those who have treated Croatia so bloodthirstyly to the Croatian people, so they treated me like I have to say it in blood and I have to say it to the animals that they found here, so they're the ergels of some, the horses in the ergels that they say all people have to love because they're such animals because they love people. They were starved to death. They let the animals out without water, forced them into the woods, forced them into their asses. And you know who helped? These people you have little faith about and these are veterinary inspectors and veterinary technicians who really solved Croatia at the time of the Homeland War from a lot, meaning diseases that pass from animals to humans. And now another little question for you is what would be said to be different security guards that we really say are sometimes going drastically into protection, and that is, let's say, your musical bows that you know very well about. And I really think that the plastic string is not the same as the string taken from the horse's tail, but of course we have to take care of how we take that hair off the horse's tail and there's exactly that animal's well-being when the horse doesn't feel at that time pain if she's taken when the horse's still alive, so to solve it that way. There he is.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49459	Thank you. Replication response, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49460	Now we've gotten a little bit into professional-specialistic stuff, but so I don't get it wrong. I really believe in the fair work of veterinary inspectors. Of course, it depends on the individual, but basically we absolutely trust in their work and their expertise and I don't doubt it, but I'm just talking about capacitation and really everything that needs to be done in this review while animals are being transported, etc. that should be done. Here, I've only expressed one suspicion, but I hope we'll dispropose. As for the horsetail and the bow, that's for sure. Look at those who deal with such an occupation that is difficult to say interest, so art-related, art-related, and those who use that bow believed or not some of them who are top artists said that they can actually feel the difference they feel as some kind of energy and that they can actually feel the difference whether something was positive or negative in it. Now, of course, it's a question of their feelings and that it's hard to get into explanations, but it's interesting that that's exactly what they're saying and that it's absolutely certain that it's always necessary to take care of whatever object, whatever object it is. If it is the origin of animals, then care should be taken about how it is done absolutely.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49461	And my colleague Nenad is dancing. Here you go, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49462	My colleague Matušić here is the one that you asked me to report to this debate. You mentioned rhinos as an animal that prevents fires. As the person who comes from the fire department, it's very interesting to me, too bad we don't have rhinoceros here. But we have our domestic animals that could also serve in the fight against fire, and that's the way goats are. Especially those goats that scribble around inhabited areas, and by clearing that area, prevent this fire from reaching houses, endangering them, and causing great damage. Here is when we talk about animals as an opportunity to serve us and in the fight against fires I would also recommend the Minister of Agriculture to provide support for both goats to benefit both in livestock and in the fight against fires against fires against fires and therefore into the economy. Here, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49463	Replication response, Frano Matušić.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49464	Well, I agree with your colleague. I've been looking at some photos taken 80 to 100 years ago, exactly the Dubrovnik area, the Dubrovnik coast, etc. As the goats were growing there, there was nothing different or anything, it was just that the goat made everything better. It's our substitute for rhinoceros who is actually an animal that has absolutely contributed to many aspects, in preserving nature. In fact, she was in some way an aide to the man in the land treatment and everything that was needed to be done. You have a photograph of, say, Korčula where there was no pine, no pine was there, no pine existed. The Aleppo pine came with Austria, with Austro-Hungarian. Bor is not at all a plant that is autochton, it is today of course accepted as such and it is nice to see really some green island with pine but it is not a plant that grew in that area at all. There were only olive groves and vines. And when you see the drywalls today on the island of Korčula, when one part of Korčula burns, then you can see the drywall. Every inch of the earth was being worked. Of course, the goats were present and helped to make it as well as possible and there were no words or words or other plants that actually made it impossible for them to make better offerings. And in that sense, I absolutely agree with you to support goats, but not just for that reason, and for the sake of cheese and for all that is good that comes well from that animal. And, of course, one different relationship to that animal.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49465	And we continue the debate. She is a colleague of Ljiljana Cvetović.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49466	Dear Vice-Presidents, I would only point out that harmonising the legislation of the Republic of Croatia with EU legislation must not be just a copy of the regulations and directives, as each country has the right to install into the laws any good solutions which it has achieved so far and which it has already implemented. It is also necessary to respect the specificity of each country. This is true for each area, as well as for the animal protection area where Croatia has achieved exceptional results so far. She also received international commendations for some of them. In particular, this applies to Article 12 of the Law authorising the placing on the market and introduction into the territory of the Republic of Croatia of seal products under the provisions of the EU Regulation. Currently applicable legal provisions in Croatia prohibit trade in seal products. And for what reason does Croatia change that provision and give up a difficult right to vote in the protection of that animal?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49467	Thank you very much. Lastly, on behalf of the promoter, Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49468	I thank the esteemed vice president. First of all, thank everyone for the presentation of a colleague and colleagues on behalf of clubs and individual debates. I'll try to answer it very briefly. I actually saw or read a serious remark here, and that's why is this law now in this House? It was very simple for us, or over 50% of the acquis that we had to coordinate as the Republic of Croatia was related to this ministry and we did so within the deadlines that we had until the 1st of July until the entry. And this law was in June, that is, in July of the Croatian government and passed. You had your vacation, so he didn't just get into Parliament procedure to do it. When we talk about possible bad effects, or why they're late, they're absolutely gone. All these 8 regulations that we are talking about are directly applicable, directly applicable as regulations that bind us, and other than that, if we looked closely at the materials that went along with this bill, we gentlemen have the Animal Protection Act 135/2006. So we had one change last year. So the full legal and protection and procedures were also defined with a series of sublegal acts, and it was done by all those who were to work. So there was no void or delay. Maybe just a few concrete answers that were here. Dear counterpart of the Czech Republic, Article 1. The proposal for a law on the implementation of the regulations is just the ones that are actually being implemented in this law and these are the original names of the Regulation. By contrast, in the law implementing the regulations, we do not prescribe regulations, but we are simply doing a description of the application or procedure of the application of these regulations through our legislation. It was also a question of how we know to use or not use columns. They are also banned in the EU, thus also in the Republic of Croatia, and possibly for any goods that come in this way inspection services that are listed will act according to their needs. Animal resorts, we're talking about animal resorts as something we didn't know so far that there's an obligation to Article 34 of the Rules of Procedure on the conditions that must bring animal resorts to the National No. 37/2008 What is simple with the application of these regulations that the conditions that such spaces will have to satisfy will be somewhat stricter will be checked by a commission that will issue for such resting places, and given the size of the Republic of Croatia on road connections and the rest of the large number of farms, I am talking about farm spaces that are intended for potential resting places, we count or colleagues from the administration have estimated that there are enough 2 to 4 such official resting places. One of the following questions was about the continuity of the transport, I think, at 12 o'clock. All those who have longer tours usually organise that they have two drivers who change in driving and then this provision of the Road Traffic Act and is very consistent with this way of transporting animals. Followers, animal escorts shall not be required to have any specific professional training but must pass certain education, certain courses, thereby obtaining a certificate and, accordingly, they may be escorts in the transport or transport of animals. I think it's more or less here than I've been comfortable with this statement by a respected colleague of the twilight that we've had an artistic philosophical debate, we've had some witty remarks, but it seems to me that this respected House has supported this law. In fact, this law is not only a harmonisation or an implementation of 8 regulations, it is, in fact, that we have already had most of it covered by the laws and we have implemented rather than a rise to a very high standards of application and we expect that these positive praises to the inspection services and to the colleagues who work, for which I must thank myself on their behalf, will only be an additional incentive that, as a rule, the implementation of this law and of all the regulations and directives that we are obliged to implement under which we are obliged to further motivate fellow inspectors to do our job in an excellent way, and that such incident or extreme situations are indeed reduced to a minimum. I think I'm your answer to the dolphins. The dolphins are not a foreign invasive species to be problematic for the Adriatic but it is a complete procedure that should be respected quarantine, permits, monitoring... all made so that we don't have to worry about it, I think we'll only have positive effects why they're with us in the Adriatic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49469	Thank you very much. We have two replicas. Igor Chesek. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49470	Thank you. Dear Mr. Minister, I thank you for your answers. Here you have tried to explain those questions I asked you, but I commend the veterinary inspection and their work, of course. But when we talk about animal transport, I think there's going to be some problems because today's motor vehicles very few of them can afford to have one, so let's say the tour sends two drivers. Because they say that transport costs are extremely high, and I'm afraid there might be a law abuse. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49471	The answer to the line of Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49472	Well, most of these new obligations or the burdens you're talking about are already in effect since 2011. All those involved in the activities of animal transport already work mostly by the rules and procedures they prescribe and this Regulation so that there will be no major or more serious problems or new costs for our carriers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49473	And a colleague of Mile Horvat's replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49474	Thank you. Mr. Minister, we absolutely support the adoption of this law for all the reasons you have said, especially if this law will raise the level of awareness and culture of animal relations to one higher level. So what's going on, it's become a phenomenon for us in Baranja, and before the vacations, there's usually a hell of a lot of stray dogs. So the question is, where did they come from? The answer is people who have them, and they go on vacation, and they don't have a solution for them over vacation, they take them up to the mountain in Baranja, and they let these dogs go wild, and they cause a problem. And if it wasn't for good and efficient veterinary services and the efforts of those people doing it, there would probably be a bigger problem with these stray dogs who slowly come into the village and do damage. So that's one good thing. And don't mind me, but I would use your presence to tell you here about another phenomenon that isn't related to this subject, just one minute. It's grape harvest season, it's always been done in a way to work with professionals and relatives, friends, etc. What's happening now has upset the people, and I believe it's a phenomenon outside Baranja, the police are coming with the police, the vans, unannounced, they're getting into the tables, they're controlling the harvest, people are hiding, they're running away, and it's getting sick. So, the thing that was supposed to be a tourist attraction, which was supposed to be a pleasure at the end of the difficult year, we're talking about reading, socializing, so on. ... helping that has become a problem. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] And when the so-called law was passed. We pointed out that this would be a problem. That's when it was said, no. These campaigns will make an exception. People pay stamps for professionals because it's in the interest of these people. However, a much larger number are those who make it friendly. I'm asking you to discuss this with the tax administration authorities and we think that this thing can be done more flexiblely by the end of the campaign. It'll take another 10 days, it's an interest to take those grapes off, you see the weather's breaking down. It's not an interest to push discipline into that matter. I ask you to discuss it, I think it will be well welcomed in these areas.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49475	Thank you very much. Here's since the transfer is under way, and then we'll have the minister answer the parliamentary question, not just on the subject of the law. Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49476	Thank you, dear fellow Horvath. I received the suggestion, we're going to do a background check, but actually seasonal employment in agriculture and the vouchers have actually shown a great side to that law and they've reduced that part of the gray, or black, seasonal business market in agriculture. I think that here we should do a dipression actually on small hobby, vineyards where it's done familyly, traditionally with friends compared to what has the mark of already real production units or... who are really engaged in the same way by calling on that traditional part, however, avoid part of the obligations they should and are employed by really people who pay through seasonal work but who do not meet those obligations that they should have with the vouchers. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] We're going to do a little analysis, and we're going to see in the end, we're going to do this law that, in fact, has already proven itself to be a very big and positive effect, but we said that we're going to do it if we notice that something isn't best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49477	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49478	The following is the Final Proposal for a Law implementing the European Union animal protection regulations, emergency procedure, first and second reading, PZE No. 447. The debate on the final draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. I'm asking you to let us know who's in favour by hand-lifting? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously, with 112 votes, the Law on the Implementation of the European Union Animal Protection Regulations was adopted, in the text proposed by the Government of the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49479	And we will also discuss: - The final predicate of the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the multiannual Funding Agreement 2007-2011 concluded on 31 July 2012, emergency procedure, first and second reading, P.Z. No. 443; Proposer of the Law is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. You received the proposal by mail. In accordance with Article 2004 of the Treaty on the The Registrar's emergency procedure combines the first and second readings. Amendments may be submitted by the end of the debate. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Agriculture. And you received reports at the session. Introducing the bill will be explained by Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina. Minister, go ahead.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49480	I thank the esteemed vice presidents, dear colleagues and fellow MPs. The framework agreement concluded on 27 August 2007 between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities laid down rules for cooperation in relation to the financial assistance of the European Community to the Republic of Croatia and the implementation of aid under the pre-accession assistance instruments, etc. IPA. More detailed cooperation rules between the Government of the Republic of Croatia and the Commission of the European Communities have been governed by the Agreement on Cooperation Rules relating to the European Commission's financial assistance to the Republic of Croatia, the implementation of aid under the P-IPARD Instrument for Pre-accession Assistance of the IPA concluded on 13 October 2008 so-called A sectoral agreement. The European Union's financial commitments to the Republic of Croatia were governed by a multiannual agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the European Community and the Government of the Republic of Croatia on financing for the period 2007-2010, while the commitments for 2001 were agreed by the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the multiannual financing agreement for the period 2007-2010. The main objective of the adoption of this Act is to further determine for 2012 the basis for the free use of financial resources under the IPA programme 5. Rural Development. The new agreement was signed on 23 May 2013 on the basis of a Decision of the Government of the Republic of Croatia to initiate the procedure for the conclusion of the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the multiannual financing agreement 2007-2011 concluded on 31 July 2012. The subject-matter agreement amends and complements the multiannual financing agreement for the period 2007-2011 in such a way as to amend its supplement by establishing the European Union's financial commitment to the Republic of Croatia and for 2012 amounting to 25 million 820 thousand 793 euros. The Agreement also amends the European Union's financial commitment for 2008. The implementation and financing of the IPARD programme shall be subject to rule N+3, where N marks the current year a plus 3 period from the next 3 years in which previously approved funds may also be spent for that year. In accordance with Article 36. The sectoral agreement and rule N+3 of the 2008 initial allotment, which amounted to 25 million and 600,000 euros, were suspended 25 million 323 thousand 855 euros, i.e. a new amount for 2008 funds of 276,000 145 euros. Which means that out of 25 million and 600 thousand euros, we only used 276,000 euros for 2008. The total EU funds for the implementation of the IPA programme of the 5th Rural Development for the period 2007-2012 are 129 million 896 thousand 938 euros. Given the planned dynamics of the withdrawal of EU funds and mandatory participation of the Republic of Croatia in the implementation of the IPA 5 rural development programme, as defined by the sectoral agreement. The Republic of Croatia should provide 25% of the total appropriations of the programme, while 75% of the funds coming from the European Union budget. In the national budget of the Republic of Croatia for that period, i.e. the division of the budget of the Ministry of Agriculture has provided 275 million for 2013 and in the projections for 2014, i.e. 2015 by 275, and 250 million for 2015, respectively, when we anticipate the completion of the IPARD project. The European Union has notified the Republic of Croatia with its own note that the procedure for confirming the agreement by the European Union has already been completed and that by adopting the urgent procedure of this law and its entry into force, the Republic of Croatia will be formally bound by the already signed agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49481	Thank you very much. Tink Milas, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49482	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Mr. Minister, it's clear everything that's written in this agreement and it's all exact. I am interested, i.e. I think that perhaps we should explain to the public what is the financial perspective of 201-20. As far as I see competitions for IPARD they have stopped, gone and I am interested now since it is stated that the Ministry is working intensively to create measures that will be included in the rural development programme for the period 2014-2020, details will be available by the end of the year. I am interested in the context of what, whether this programme has been approved by the European Commission, whether it should be approved and whether it is agreed. Is it still until mid next year if we can expect that there will be a contest that will replace IPARD because people expect it. I think maybe that's why I know that it's too much of a requirement, that it just doesn't get there, but I don't know if it's a good message to the agricultural producers and I think more of them are going to come forward for a single request for support because they're already doing it in some way, it's easier for them, it's once a year. The difference is that the funds will now, or already leave the European Union. So maybe that message simply lets us tell people, talk to them about knowing what's waiting for them and when they can expect the next contests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49483	Replication response, Minister Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49484	Thank you. Your Honor, we're talking about two things here, we're talking about pre-accession funds, and we're kind of confirming the unusability of the years we've had at our disposal and we're doing this same pre-accession IPARD for the next two years, and we're making significant use of it. Last year it was about 60th and something percent, this year it will be 80%, in the next two years 100% use of that part. What we are preparing for, which is extremely important is the rural development programme, i.e. the second pillars of the fund you are talking about, and we will have 333m euros at our disposal and this programme is the most important strategic document we are working on in that final phase of production. It could not be adopted because no regulation was made at European Union level. As far as you're aware, and I think it is, that the whole reform package has actually been being negotiated for months and months on the council. He agreed with the 6th month principle agreement on the council itself with the commission, it is subject to additional trilateral or additional negotiations with parliament itself. On Monday and Tuesday, I was in Brussels, something was corrected by the negotiating positions of the presidency, i.e. the Council and the Commission with Parliament, and on Tuesday, the trilateral was completed and a principle agreement was made on the adoption of the whole package, the reform package of the common agricultural policy. He now has to prepare himself in a legislative manner,... and he will be on one of the next councils for official adoption. The moment we adopt it, i.e. when the Council and Parliament adopt a regulation, it is established which our programme must be fully in line with the existing office, it is at a very high degree of certainty, it will then go to the Government's procedure, to the Government of the Republic of Croatia, to be sent to the European Commission. When we get confirmation from the European Commission that it is in accordance with the regulations with which it must be consistent, we get confirmation that it is okay, based on it we will then use and schedule tenders for the period '14 and '15 respectively, '20. In fact, here we are saying that the whole reform package that has been working on the Council for months is in delay, not on the grounds of the Republic of Croatia, because only since 1.7 we have the right to vote, but it is one of the most important segments through the common agricultural policy as well as the fisheries policy that is taking up most of the budget and therefore its application will be in line with the time limits. What we are currently negotiating for months with the Commission, we are negotiating rules on how to bridge the '14th year, which is what rules we will be working on in the transitional period in '14. year, until our rural development programme, but all 27 other countries are confirmed by the Commission and we will not be able to work for the whole.... Anyway, what we're doing right now, what we're doing on the IPARD, we're raising maximum usability, is most likely going to be calling another contest under existing conditions, and here we're preparing to do that for '14. We are working in a transitional period according to specific measures, meaning not all the measures we will have in the rural programme but only some of the measures that we have defined, which are in line with now and... the IPARD procedure, but are also an integral part of the rural development programme under which the Member States worked before and we are preparing a programme that will apply to us for the next seven years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49485	Thank you very much. I don't think you mind the minister's time, but he's given you complete information. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. Thank you very much. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49486	Thank you very much, Vice President. Honorable ministers with associates, respected colleagues and colleagues. Allow me to say a few sentences on behalf of the HDZ representative's club regarding the Law on Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Commission and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the Multi-annual Funding Agreement in 2007 and 2011. The main objective of the signing of this Agreement and its confirmation in the Croatian Parliament is to regulate the financial obligations of the EU towards the Republic of Croatia for the period 2007-2012 for the implementation of the IPA component 5 rural development programme. In other words, it is changing and supplementing the multiannual agreement in a way that changes its addition, thus establishing the EU's financial commitment to the Republic of Croatia for 2012 and the EU's financial commitments for the period 2008. This Amending and supplementing the multiannual agreement extends the period of use of the IPARD programme to 2012. I welcome this supplement because it represents a significant source of funds for our farmers in this area and for Croatian agriculture a crisis moment. Also when we talk about the rural development mentioned by the ministry, the strategic plan was drawn up in 2012 and the fourteenth one that is currently talking about rural development, which is so important for the development of the agricultural economy in the Republic of Croatia. In line with the trends of the common agricultural policy in the EU in which rural development is taking an increasingly important place, this is becoming an increasingly prominent area in the development of the agricultural policy of the Republic of Croatia. As an essential component of the European agricultural model, the purpose of rural development policy is to create a coherent and sustainable framework to ensure the future of rural space and to stimulate sustainability and employment. Rural development measures aim to reduce differences in economic development and living conditions in relation to other areas, to create a strong agricultural sector, to increase competitiveness and rural areas, to preserve the environment and natural resources, and to preserve and advance rural areas and rural values. The purpose of rural development is to improve the quality of life in those rural areas where these conditions are significantly lower than the average. This refers to employment opportunities, income levels and public services, infrastructure. Agriculture also provides great opportunities for employment in these areas, but there are also rural areas where most are not employed in the agricultural sector. Therefore, the successful rural development policy is not exclusively linked to agricultural activities but also includes forestry, the environment, the quality of rural life, innovation in agriculture, new uses of agricultural products, environmental protection in rural areas and job creation. The quality of life of the rural population is constantly improving but the differences in living standards between rural and urban populations are decreasing. One of the primary objectives is that rural areas become vital and attractive places to live and work with developed diverse economic opportunities in line with local conditions and characteristics. The dynamic links between villages, smaller towns and urban areas should contribute to the development of the economy as a whole. Rural areas are able to adapt rapidly to economic social cultural and technological changes and fully integrate into the market economy. Insufficiently developed basic infrastructure in rural areas makes it difficult to develop agricultural economies and has an adverse impact on the quality of life in rural areas. Local self-government units have a great need to invest in a fundamental infrastructure to increase the quality of life within their environments and create real basis for rural development. Expansion of non-agricultural activities or diversification of economic activities in the rural area is a very important segment in rural development, and contributes to new jobs, reducing the depopulation of the population, and contributes to improving living conditions in the overall rural area. There are many questions that our farmers have not received from the minister, and so we swear on rural development. For agriculture, there's a lot of strangers we need to get an answer to. Since June of this year, respected colleagues and colleagues have been undergoing the agony of farmers. We're all witnesses to the situation, we're all witnesses that you won't give an answer. It's a question of who this is right now. In any situation, we ask the question to whom are there adequate repression and criminal penalties for the possession of public roads, which our ministers fear is peasants, is it the Minister of Agriculture here or is it the Minister of the Interior? Is agriculture for whose better positioning in the Union frameworks as regards HDZ authorities who have fought very hard deserve this treatment. Today and in recent days, we have heard criticisms related to the use of funds. Dear colleagues and colleagues, I am sure that everything the HDZ and the Government of the Republic of Croatia did in the past during the negotiations on the EU and the safe implementation of certain projects have achieved enviable results. The first tenders are related to this programme, they started from January to March 2010. In view of the fact that payment was carried out through completed projects, it is clear that the use of funds would be more intense in 2012 than it had been before. So I would so much like to inform you that in 2010, when the program was implemented, it was used 3.84%. Of course, at the beginning of the program, it was not possible to achieve a higher percentage. But already in 2011 the use is 79.55%, and in 2012, of course it will be far greater which will satisfy us entirely. I would use the opportunity here precisely for this speaker that, since Mr. Minister is present here, I would like to just encourage how and how to help our farmer, and how to help the man who is in the EU today. And what we've always said we're not going to let a Croatian peasant enter on his knees, and we've just come into a position for our peasant to enter on his knees or enter the EU, and that's what we've never had any program or written about, neither this government nor the previous government. Therefore, Mr. Minister, I am asking you, indeed, that in the next period, since we will also have a thematic session at the Assembly Committee on Agriculture where we will personally invite you and will be related to the exclusive correspondence of the Croatian Chamber of Agriculture and people representing the Chamber, they want to simply learn very simple questions for them, but I am sure that these are simple questions for you too. How much is foreseen in the financial envelope, how much did they get, and how much left over? I am really asking you to answer us in a letter from the Assembly Committee on Agriculture as soon as possible. Because what I've told you in the current hour, I'm sure as a minister, every day and night, you need to know that information. And therefore we don't need any news agencies to prepare the same materials, but I ask you to prepare concrete indicators and finally give people an answer. I also want to tell you that we will also have a thematic session on winemaking and winemaking where you keep contacts and meetings with them every month and where we also want to resolve some issues that have been withdrawn for months and years and where we simply haven't resolved some issues in agriculture, and so are key to development and winemaking and winemaking.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49487	Comrade Lucic, you will deal with it as the chairman of the board, and here we are discussing the law.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49488	Okay, I'm discussing this law but it's respected vice presidents about this law too.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49489	Well, it's not tied.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49490	And that's why I'd like to take this opportunity right now and tell the Minister what I told him. And certainly these are the key issues that are very much related to agriculture because there is no future in the Croatian village or the future of Croatian farmers without such unresolved issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49491	Thank you very much. Replica, Igor Czech.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49492	Thank you, Vice President. You spoke to your colleague Lucić about rural development and quality of life in rural areas. I'd be the happiest if our rural areas were to shine in full glory. However, one basic and elemental question is raised, are all units of local and regional self-government ready, or capable of withdrawing these funds from the IPARD programme? What is the realisation of projects from the IPARD program? That's the question. Are we able to realize the projects? And you said, among other things, that there are a lot of questions about our farmers and little answers. Well, I'll give you a few answers to the farmer's questions. I'll tell you that in July of this year milk production is less than 8800 tonnes compared to July of last year. I'll tell you how the price of mineral fertiliser is 30% higher in the Republic of Croatia than it is in the countries of the environment. I will also tell you that commercial banks do not want to finance and lend Croatian farmers. Those are the answers to those questions you asked. And as I see it, the government has no concrete solution to these questions and these answers.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49493	Replication response, Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49494	My colleague, the Czechs, did not seem to understand each other. I was in a strategic plan brought by the Ministry of Agriculture just talking about rural development from which it was not exactly respected. So this is the 2012-2014 plan, and this is exactly what should have been done. That's why we're just looking for these talks with the minister that we have so many questions and so many ambiguities that this ministry has written a strategy, and at the same time it hasn't implemented it. There are key issues to which the ministry and ministry should just give to the Croatian agricultural chamber I don't know winemakers, winemakers, cattlemen. Well, it's clear to me, in my Požega-Slavon County, there's been such a collapse that 50% of the livestock has simply disappeared. The question is, why? Well, of course, it's not the local self-government unit that will be able to withstand activities on its shoulders in support of agriculture. We can give some short-term solutions, but in the long term we can't. But it's said in the strategic plan and I'm now asking why this strategic plan isn't being implemented. That's the key question.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49495	Frano Matušić, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49496	Thank you, Madam Vice President. You're absolutely right when you say the government failed in this part of the rural development. The government obviously did not realise that rural development should be one of the pillars of economic development and economic growth. However, we are fortunately in the EU, so we will be able to apply some European rules and benefit from the European funds, so we will believe all those who deal with the development of the rural sector that they will have opportunities and withdraw those funds. But you said something about competitiveness, so I'm going to say one example of what we're all prepared to do to avoid European standards. In Croatia, two new drinks are produced today, which we do not know what they are. So I'd like to ask the Minister's reply here present. A drink called ROOM was previously called domestic rum, and now it's called room in English. So can you please tell me in the alcoholic-drink classification we're talking about? And another example of something that used to be called Brandy or in translation Or in the translation of the brandy, I'm talking about the competitiveness of the product. [[Intruder: Replicate fellow Lucic.]] Something called Brandy, your name is Bratsky today. So it's a clean play of the trust of Croatian consumers and one scam for which not the workers of these factories who produce these fierce alcoholic beverages, they are at least guilty, they are not at all guilty. The current and former administrations that sold under those names are responsible for something that was not the product at all. Brandy is produced from wine distillates, and the factory that produced probably the most sold ferocious product in the area of the former Yugoslavia has done so from quite other substances, not wine distillates, not young wine. Wine is made from young wine and can be called Vinjak or Brandy always. No one's stopping us from making brandy, but it's brotherly. I don't know what brotherly is. So I'm asking the Minister of Agriculture whose portfolio it is to answer which drinks it is, what is that classification of drinks?
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49497	Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49498	I agree with my colleague Matušić in your replication when you speak in EU funds. You know, I'm a little worried, you know, and I'm skeptical, and we say we need our farmers to prepare for EU funds, but I'm afraid by the time they get to the European funds and the means that this policy of the government of the Republic of Croatia, which is now run by agriculture, that our farmers will simply disappear. Look, if there are 50% of milk producers missing in Požega-Slavon County, I'm asking you what's going to happen in a year, two days from now, so there won't be any of them. We will have so much money from the EU. Yesterday or today I listened to the government of the Republic of Croatia will participate with the part of the funds needed, we will get part of the EU's funds we have to give, I'm afraid we won't have farmers who will be able to withdraw it because in the meantime everyone will disappear. I can't say Minister you're the Minister's fault because this situation is happening in livestock, but we're asking what happened back two years ago that we've lost or halved our dairy farmers, those bull growers. They're gone, they're gone. So who are we going to give those funds to if you don't have the same manufacturer in the Republic of Croatia tomorrow? These are key questions.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49499	It's a pedestal of the coat of arms.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49500	Thank you, Madam Vice President. So here I am going to focus my replica on one part of the presentation of a distinguished fellow representative where he praised the last government as it was a great negotiation. So I'm going to join these praises of yours and say that you've negotiated so well that we don't have Prosek in Croatia anymore, that we don't have Terran, and the only question we're asking is what else we've lost and when we're going to find out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49501	Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49502	Mr. coat of arms, if all the negotiations were based on Prosek or another product, and everything else was well negotiated. And look, don't accuse the former government because if these negotiators weren't good today, this government wouldn't have anything to negotiate and there wouldn't be any funds to pull out of the EU. It is precisely on the basis of negotiators who came from the Croatian Democratic Community who have negotiated the entire EU that we are using today, is that if they were not there would be no such funds. And we certainly have Prosek, and we'll have him, and nothing is disputed.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49503	And Nenad dances, and you shall have a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49504	I thank the esteemed vice president. You mentioned numerous problems related to the Ministry of Agriculture, related to the development of the rural area, I would only relate to all these problems, and related to one rural area of the Gorski Kotar, where the letter of intent of Croatian forests to small millers in the Gorski Kotar narrows down the area for the purchase of raw materials. Namely, the disappearance of the wood industry in the Gorski Kotar Kotar people was forced to turn to self-employment, so many small sawmills emerged. People hired themselves, their families, friends, relatives, neighbors, and moved forward in life. However, this very letter of intent of the Croatian Forests narrowed them down to the area of supply of raw materials for the production of wood assortings, although the Law on the mountainous area, which unfortunately breathed in the end, gave priority to the supply of raw materials there or share where it was cut. But here this year, which was a long winter when these small sawmills started working only somewhere in the spring and getting raw materials, but now at the end of the 9th month they have no more raw materials and simply these little sawmills will be forced to close, people will end up on the stock exchanges again, they will be out of work and new problems arise. So I hope that the ministry and the ministry will take that into account and revise these decisions so that even those people in the Gorski Kotar can still have their survival right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49505	Reply to the replica Franjo Lucic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49506	I agree with my colleague, and I know for a fact about Croatian forests, the wood of the processing industry, and I am aware that many former small entrepreneurs who had previously had reprogrammed have come to certain problems where they could not return the programs. Of course, the management of Croatian forests does everything to help everyone, but at the same time everyone who has not implemented their reprogrammes and payments from the past time simply can't get raw material today. That there should be a different redistribution and that care should be taken especially for small producers in any case yes. We are witnessing that Croatia's entry into the European Union opened markets, public tenders are no longer inaccessible to Italians, Austrians, Germans. Of course, the question arises where our small producers are and what is their future and their survival. What I've always said is that of the previous government and the current government that they should have invested far more money in the wood industry. Why? It's precisely because it's a sector that employs the largest number of people. What people? The ones we have most at the employment office are those people with medium professional training. There was no strategy, there was no strategy today, and right now, domestic producers, small millers, are in big trouble, and it's a question of their survival. The question is how much wood industry will survive in Croatia in the first place, and I'm sure if it continues to be such a strategy towards the wood industry that the future of the wood industry is not brighter and that in a short period of time we will be in a situation in a year, two days where there may be 5.6 wood industries that mean something in Croatia and all others will fail.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49507	Lastly, on behalf of the promoter, Minister of Agriculture Tihomir Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49508	I thank the esteemed vice president, I have not responded and responded individually to the debates, I have left it for the final word. And I think that given the currentity, I will not spend 30 minutes at my disposal, but I will try to answer the most important questions about this Final Proposal of the Law. Gentlemen, we are talking about a multiannual financing agreement in 2007-2011. We are actually talking about the IPA pre-accession aid that we could use where we should raise the competitiveness of our agricultural sector and the processing industry and in some ways prepare well and learn and learn through the use of the pre-accession funds we speak first of the SAPARD and then IPARD and then get ready to join the European Union. We're talking here or we've heard here about the very good use and good work of the former government. We've also heard a lot of mathematical data that, dear sir and colleague Lucic don't stand. In this report I read and did not particularly stress, I will now repeat, in 2008 of 25 million and 600 thousand euros we used only 276,000 euros. 1%. We pulled less than 25 million kunas in IPARD throughout 2010 and 2011. In 2012, since I've been a minister, it's somewhere on base 120, for 2012. 125 million. Five and a half times the use was in that year than two years ago. If it's so well negotiated, will you tell me why it's linear or why the negotiators didn't predict in this agreement that we won't be able to use 100% of our assets in the first, second, third year immediately? But we had an average of 26m euros from 2007 to 2011. We see how much use it is. You mentioned the current clock. In our current class, we heard from one of your colleagues who expressed great concern about the potential loss of funds due to possible sanctions. Through this, only in these two years have we lost 50 million euros. Just these two years, we haven't used 50 million euros for that same farm. But what we were doing at the same time. We have paid the billions and 900 million kuna for investment support for capital investments and operational programmes. Why? Because it was easier. The more complex, the more comprehensive the procedures that the European Union has prepared us for the rules of the game that apply when we enter, but we went to the state budget, we took the operational, we took the capital, and these people are unfortunately today, most of this funded part of the HABOR, the commercial banks are in trouble. We did not use the funds that were free of charge, which were available to us and on which we were to prepare for the use of funds that were much greater to us. It's a big problem and it's one of the basic problems why we came in unprepared. Because we needed to train, learn and prepare projects, apply, conduct and most people who have entered these demanding projects are doing well today. They're not in trouble. It is not easy for them but they are not in such big problems as most of those agricultural producers who used capital and financed their projects exclusively from the state budget per, I will not specifically analyse the once very strange conditions of these investments. When we talk about these billions and 900 million, 520 million left to this government through the '12th, '13th and '14th, we pay them out of our budget. Whether I, as a minister, make the same model, so I charge a future government, a future government or a future minister for the '22st of '23, it'll sound nice, the question is what will be the effect and someone else will have to secure the funds in the budget and pay back. Both through modes of work and by the ministries and institutions and through the results in the withdrawal of funds and preparation of projects and the number of applied projects, according to the tenders that were called in 2012 and 2013 show how important it is to help our and the importance of transport and service to our agricultural producers to use these funds, and therefore I say that the overall usability for this fund is pre-accession aid, IPARD will eventually be somewhere over 60%. I'm also talking total use with this little use of previous years, because in the next two and three years, we're going to make maximum use of those funds, not including not ignoring the preparation for what's more important, which is the rural development programme. The rural development programme has 20 measures at our disposal. We're not gonna make the mistake we made here through IPARD so we can go apply to all measures, no. Through the preparation of this strategic document where more than 30 large workshops, public stands, where the participatoryness of all participants and the promotion of fund users in the last few months on the design of the programme will include a good program in which we will have 17 or 18 measures, which will guarantee us the maximum or maximum usability of these funds that will be available to us. Among other things, two measures are provided for both forestry and wood industry because it is important in the balanced regional development of rural areas of the Republic of Croatia. But I'm going to answer you to a part of the observation that really doesn't have a base, I'm talking about little sawmills, I'm talking about a relationship or a lack of raw materials. Currently, the demand for the wood processing sector in the Republic of Croatia is two or two and a half times higher, the yearly demand for logs, for the amount of wood than it is real... that Croatian forests can and can cut. These same small sawmills you are talking about are able to obtain one agreement in which it was first made in the Republic of Croatia, which gives certain security of several-year contracts to Croatian wood growers, guarantees them the possibility of planning investment development for the next period. They know the exact rules of the game in which to come and how to encourage as much as possible, the finals in the woodworking industry and in the priorities and in the prices and in the works and in the quantities. You won't tell me, and I can't as resolute minister and president of the Assembly of the Croatian Forests stats behind every small millar having the same conditions as the woodworker of the high-end export furniture. An extremely important sector, good results, years of neglect, and we're doing everything we can to strengthen it and make it more competitive. We're talking about over a billion dollars in exports to the wood processing sector, we're talking about a surplus of one of the few branches that has surpluses in foreign trade and the other. What about small sawmills who usually have primary or almost only primary wood processing and then export it to fossils, boards or sawdust, do to themselves the competition to ensure cheap or very cheap raw materials for neighbouring countries in the European Union. I don't think so, that we have to take care primarily of our high-grade wood growers, and that's what this multi-annual agreement was made through. Through rural development measures where two measures will be available and for forest production and wood growers we will find the possibility of using both these funds and developing rural areas... wood processing sector. This is simply how, we can't go back in 2008, '07, '09, increase exploitation, but we can make all of us use IPARD together in the next period while we have it, and especially the funding from the rural development programme is as big as possible. Here we will create the competitiveness of our and our primary agricultural producers, but also of the food and processing sector as an important sequel or someone who will ensure the placement of agricultural products that we have. When you talk about the dairy sector, just two or three more sentences. There are incorrect data on this number, if you are talking about figures then say that in 2003, when the reference laboratory in the Republic of Croatia was founded in Križevci, there were 58000 agricultural producers who were involved in the production of milk, that Minister Jakovina became a minister when he became 14000 producers and that we now have about 10500 producers. Yes, the fall is, it is a sector that is particularly exposed but not only in the Republic of Croatia. I said that I was in Brussels at the beginning of the week, Tuesday the European Commission had one excellent conference on the dairy sector, and that is the mark and the farmer throughout the European Union. In the last year alone, 100,000 milk producers in the European Union have stopped producing milk. Since the start of the dairy crisis, the major milk crisis that rocked the European Union in 2009, 30% of milk producers are no longer engaged in this activity and therefore the Commission and the Council and we are all working on finding and long-term measures and through a regulatory agency at European Union level through a special way of designing support for countries where the price threshold is lower and similar, but we can't instruct this government either negative movements or only for the Republic of Croatia. It is a trend throughout the European Union. As for the tow truckers, I think that the committee presidents should talk to... and the serious producers, associations in the Republic of Croatia who see very large opportunities in this segment to expand their production, which are already full of facilities, which are satisfied with the way this government works and all the measures we have made and help at that technical level with the simpler exports, about the better service of all inspection services that they should be doing in the process, but also in that part of the potential opening of new third markets on which they have not been. So that segment certainly doesn't have any negative indicators as you speak. You're talking about dairy, you're talking about negative indicators in primary milk production. Even here when you're talking, and we hear a lot of unverified and flat-rate statements from overpriced fertilisers, I haven't heard a colleague of the Czechs say that he did an analysis that petrochemicals came out with a new price list where fertiliser prices are up to 30% cheaper than before. So this increases the competitiveness of Croatian producers. When we talk about the dairy sector, the same whole series of short- and long-term measures. I could present here. Among other things, he also confirmed this House when we and the Support Act said that for sensitive sectors we will be 167 million and it includes... but, above all, dairy cattle in the cost of support in the current year, we have paid off to dairy farmers a little more support precisely because of the sensitivity of the problem in which the entire sector is located. [[The speaker doesn't understand.]] Gentlemen, this law is in fact a kind of report of what and how the IPARD funds were realised before, a confirmation from the agreement we signed with the Commission and that your adoption will become valid and in the coming periods we will report in detail on this high price to the House on the percentages, manner and shifts in the use of funds. The designations of originality, the geographical indications, the alignment of the changes went because we had to, we shouldn't have used names for which we had no right and which were not agreed. Why the manufacturers chose the names for their drinks as you say. It's a choice of actually a business subject that puts it on the market. If we're talking about some irregularities in the manufacturer's specifications or misdeclaration there, I'd ask you to say so, so we'll activate, or competent inspections to check whether it's a condition. But this is simply something that business entities had to do because they couldn't use those names anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49509	Thank you. And we have three more replicas. Frano Matušić, please.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49510	Thank you. Starting with what I was saying, namely that the wrong declaration was used but they used it for decades. By joining the EU, a drink called domestic rum can no longer be called domestic rum. Why? Because it is not produced from sugarcane, because it is produced from some alcohols that are obtained entirely by other means and artificial aromas. It doesn't work anymore if we can use the name rum. We can use the name rum if we have sugarcane. If they will import sugar cane and produce sugar cane rum as produced, however, they do so from some other alcohol and aroma. Same thing with Brandy. We can call our liquor brand, brandy Brandy, we can call it. However, they produced that drink from quite other alcohols not from young wine, such as the distillery of young wine, and the winery or cognac is produced as you will where the protected area is not known as cognac. We can't call the vines horsemen because it's a protected area in France, but we can call the Vinjako. But this thing, and Brandy, Brandy's a brandy. So what they're making is not that drink, that's what this is about. I'm asking you to examine what kind of drink it is. Room what is this room? This is a consumer scam for which it is not the workers of these factories who produce it. And the other thing you were talking about is the capacity and you were talking about the usability of the funds. You should take all the time, the time of the contract, the time of the realization and the time of payment. You can't talk casually now. Maybe it's what's been paid off since 2012. It's definitely been arranged a long time before. Therefore, we need to look at the whole thing. And thirdly, the capacity was not secured either by the country that was in debt and had the money at its disposal from the EU. Instead of 250 experts were hired to assist in the use of funds, 150 people were employed. Of those 150 people, 50 left the job. I was telling your colleague, Greek, who was in charge of this job that we would have big problems simply in personneling or in achieving the right capacity capable of withdrawing funds. We have a huge problem here.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49511	Thank you. Franjo Lucic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49512	Mr Minister, I disagree with you in full and I ask you if you think we will be able to withdraw all EU funds provided for agricultural producers if we know that 50% of agricultural producers will be completely watching both warlords and cattlemen disappear until we start withdrawing funds. Second, when you talk about the sawmills. Don't just tell me that it's important to five big finalists, and that all those little millers don't matter at all. Now let me tell you this. All those five, six, seven as many as there are all those chickens, they all export the build and cut and in every other form. Therefore, they do not produce only the final product. When you talk about serious and non-serious manufacturers, I think it's an insult to individual producers, because calling someone unserious is not really right and don't use that termology anymore because it's really not right. Each manufacturer is as important as it can produce. Not everyone can be big and not everyone should be big. Therefore, and on the percentages we will rely on Mr Matusic. You're looking at one segment only percentages. The percentages should be seen from the start of the program to the end, and they last several years. Please!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49513	The reply to the replica of Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49514	Dear fellow Lucic, we can discuss absolute amounts. 25 million and 600,000 euros are available to use 276,000. So that's the absolute amount for that year. There's so much at our disposal, we used so much, that's one point something small. Normally for the whole period, this percentage will be greater because it will include raising and other years and good work and including as many users as possible and will then give some effect in the end of the 60th and some percent. But I'm talking about the resources that were available to us, which we could use, for which we could prepare projects and those projects that went through investment support for capital that I'm going to repeat once again, was spent over a billion and 900 million kuna, of which 520 or 530 million were left to both the future government and future budgets, and most of it we could use and withdraw from the EU budget. I hope that we will also have the use of IPARD at that level of over 60 percent, and when we talk about the funds from the rural development programme now doing a projection on usability is very difficult. If we haven't been able to use 26m euros in total all these years, and say now the projection that we'll be able to use 300 no. But through the measures we have defined we will try because we have included the possibility of units of local self-government, through agritourism measures, through insurance, through investments that are most important for both small and large, and for all serious agricultural producers, we will try to revitalise rural areas and secure jobs. That's just it. When you talk about the woodworking sector, I don't think I used the term seriously and unseriously, but we talked about the rules of the game. There are no large and small ones, there are those who do their job seriously, who pay their obligations to the supplier, or Croatian forests, who pay their commitments to the state and who hire people. Takes care of everyone and... have under certain conditions secured 80% of the quantities they had in the previous year, remaining bids. Once again, I say the demand is currently much higher in this sector than the possibility of delivery and we are introducing order. No more retroactive rebates, no more lists of privileged suppliers who were and could get in unimaginable quantities for some of the other wooden varieties and sawmills they needed. The strict rules are introduced
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49515	Thank you, Minister. Replica, Nenad Dance.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49516	I thank the Vice President of the Parliament. Dear Ministers, you said that small sawmills are their own competition and that the products they do export cheaply to neighbouring countries as well. Well, it's a good thing someone's exporting something in this Croatia, that everything's not really imported. This agreement you mentioned favours these very large corporations, and as counterpart Lucic said, they export the same semi-products. If we had factories in Croatia, you would probably end up in domestic factories. I, when I talk about raw materials and the fact that we should have the advantage of getting millers from Gorski kotar, from Like and even from the carlovska County, then I'm talking about the survival of these people in those parts because in Gorski kotar there's no growing wheat, there's a forest growing. The people in the Gorski Kotar can't live on wheat, they can only live on the forest. And then leave them the chance to stay there and live on what they can live on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49517	Replication response, Minister Jakovina.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49518	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my dear colleague, I agree with you, and that is the purpose and the rural development and even development programmes of the Republic of Croatia, which is the plan of both these governments, and which we are working on to enable all those who, even in the areas that have the mark of rural, can deal with business activities and live on it. But no longer under conditions that are not defined, that are not transparent and that are not worth everything equally. Unfortunately, not all of them had the same conditions in the segment, i.e. in the activities of the sawmills. Some may and may have had the opportunity to obtain the enormous quantities they needed in previous years, some being very capacitated or not at all. In this way we introduced one system and through such a system where we said that we have 7 classes of finals and through which we encourage additional rebates but also increased possibilities of wood procurement we encourage them to actually fertilize, or add value to that product. It's not the same if it's just a sawn of construction or it's also some other higher shape at least in a particular design of elements or something like that. And in this way we protect the best or create conditions for the woodworking sector to be more competitive and have added value, to keep the jobs they now have and to open new ones. The mills themselves that work exclusively and market with sawn construction, so if this is an export product, it is not what should be the basis for the development of woodworking industry in the Republic of Croatia.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49519	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later. My colleagues and colleagues, please let us be in the hall at 12.00 hours because we will vote on the points discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-09-27-0.u49520	Final proposal for a law confirming the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the Multiannual Funding Agreement 2007-2011 concluded on 31 July 2012, emergency procedure, first and second reading, CZ No. 443. The debate on the text of the draft law is closed. I am voting on the final draft of the law. Please state who's in favour? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find it unanimous, with 112 votes in favour, the Law on the Confirmation of the Agreement between the European Commission on behalf of the European Union and the Government of the Republic of Croatia amending and supplementing the Multiannual Funding Agreement 2007-2011, concluded on 31 July 2012, in the text proposed by the Proposer. Proposal for a decision on the resolution of members of the Supervisory Board of the Croatian Radio Television. The decision is proposed by the Committee on Information, Information and Media. I'm asking the president. He's gone? Okay. No board president? You won't? Okay. I'm opening a debate on the motion for a decision. There's no interest. I'm closing the debate. I am voting on the motion for a decision. Please make a statement. Who's in? Thank you. Does anyone mind? Does anyone have any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. I find that, unanimously with 108 votes, the proposed decision has been taken.
