ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62163	My colleagues and colleagues, I wish you a good day. We will continue with the session, and we will discuss - The proposal for a decision to refer members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia to NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national (multinational) commands to operations and other activities abroad under the leadership of NATO, the Proposer of the Decision is the Government of the Republic of Croatia. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure for the Second Reading of the Law shall apply when making a decision. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Defence Committee. You received the report at the session, and the opening decision will explain the Deputy Defence Minister, Mrs. Vishnja Tafra. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62164	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament. By entering NATO's full membership, the Republic of Croatia has accepted the obligation to participate in the work of NATO's joint bodies, primarily in the commands and headquarters. Currently, there are 16 members of the Armed Forces of the Republic of Croatia. In addition to NATO's command structure, members of the Armed Forces are also referring to NATO's strength structure, as well as other national and multinational commands. Armed Forces members headed for such NATO structures can also be directed to NATO-led operations and other activities abroad. By accepting these positions and by sending members of the Armed Forces to work, it is implicitly accepted that our members, at the request of them, are then ordered by their superiors, and with a follow-up national decision, can be referred to NATO-led operations and other activities abroad. Armed Forces members deployed in NATO Structures may be deployed to the area of operation for up to a year during the duration of their term of office, which is usually three or four years. In accordance with the Defence Act, we propose a decision whereby members of the Armed Forces who are on NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national commands may, if necessary, be referred to the operation and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership for tasks under the tasks carried out under these duties and that up to 20 members of the Armed Forces can be referred at the same time. The government commits to inform the High House once a year in the participation of members of the Armed Forces in operations and other NATO-led activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62165	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? They don't want to. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, colleague Davor Bozinovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62166	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, Madam Deputy Minister. So I think it's good here at the beginning to say the context in which this decision is made. It is a direct consequence of the long-term reform process of NATO's command structure launched at the Lisbon summit in 2010. Later in June 2011, the defence ministers made a decision on, actually approved a model of the geographical layout of future commanders, which gave the alliance a future, and I would say a structure that was in a way more slim and flexible, but also more affordable, in other words cheaper than it was before. It is in force from 1 December 2012 and should be fully implemented by the end of 2015. I would like to stress that the reference of our officers, here first of all we are talking about officers and officers in NATO's command is one of the most concrete benefits for the armed forces system that comes with the membership of the Republic of Croatia in NATO. The number, the height of these positions of duty is something that is determined, we can say cut in terms of the size of the country's contributions. But in the long run, I would say that, there will be a criterion and results of their work, or visibility within the mission, within the headquarters, in fact, commanding a possible schedule in the area of the operation. As a state, we should support these decisions, because being in as many commands means being at more sources of decision making, i.e. implementing decisions at a strategic operational and tactical level. This enables the competent structures of the Ministry of Defence and the Armed Forces to better and formal and informal insight into what is actually happening on the ground. As I said as a NATO member, Croatia has since just the beginning of this initiative supported this direction and mainly all initiatives that went towards rationalising the number of commands, as well as agencies within NATO. Like any other NATO structure, it has been somewhat ill over decades with the accumulation of command and agencies. However, this should also be precise and say that this is a reflection of NATO strategic guidelines that were valid at the time of the Cold War when potential combat activity could be expected in the area of Europe, so that these commands were mostly a stationary static type and then, of course, as in any other bureaucracy, the number of perpetrators increased. With the new challenges after the Cold War, taking responsibility for missions outside the Member States, the need for the command structures to be smaller, to be operational, and what is particularly important is to be displaced. So, the direct consequence of these solutions is the exacerbation, but the main reason for the reform was to increase efficiency. This includes the possibility of deploying command structures within the area of operations, which is certainly a logical solution as it prevents the creation of three bureaucratic structures separated from real-time and space challenges. It is logical that those teams trained daily in the command offices then move into the area of operation so that, in fact, trained teams have started to practice all the necessary procedures in the NATO system at the beginning. The fact that there are officers in the operations departments is certainly good for the forces that we refer to as a state in these same operations. This is important for their rapid adaptation and synergy of national contingents and multinational headquarters. In other words, when Croatian soldiers and officers go as part of a national contingent in an operation it is much easier for them to manage, it is faster to adapt if there are some Croatian officers in command. That's why it's especially important. We can be pleased to hear that if we are talking about the average at this point, perhaps the most successful member in filling the intended positions, 16 out of 18, and I think we can expect full completion by next year. Of course, political and diplomatic need to continue lobbying so that some new cuttings will have as many better positions as possible tomorrow, especially in those commands where we have the highest interest. It is no surprise and it is no wonder that the Member States are waging small diplomatic and lobbyist wars to get hold of those positions that they believe matter to them within that system and that is something that we must do too. At the moment, I would particularly stress the importance of being and we are already present at the Izmir Land Force Command, which was created after the removal of headquarters in Heidelberg and Madrid, as well as the increasing command of maritime forces in Northwood in Great Britain, given our maritime tradition and not only the tradition, but the combination of traditions and tasks that will be set for us, and in some ways, in view of EU membership, given the responsibilities that Croatia will increasingly assume in protecting the EU's blue border. Of course, it is especially important at the moment that we have officers in Naples because, as we know, NATO's KFOR operation in Kosovo is managed. What also seems very important to me is that participation in such commands should be adequately valorised in the personal policy of the Armed Forces, i.e. the Ministry of Defence, because participation in the operational and tactical structures of NATO, the commands, especially successful participation and there is no reason to doubt it, should be evaluated in the development of careers as a special achievement. This includes, of course, timely planning and preparation of quality personnel because fewer countries such as Croatia are their visibility in operations, their visibility generally in international relations most achieved by sending quality personnel that are credible and dignified. So we do not have the quantity but therefore we must work on quality and this work must be systematic and must be such that always and again Croatia is proven in this area. As far as this section is concerned, it's good. Of course, it will include the financial part, the projections for this exist in the Ministry of Defence's financial projections, but we already think it would be good to have all these students, or representatives we refer to in the missions committed to one regular reporting, or whether it is written, whether or not the oral collection of lessons learned and experiences. It can be done through debriefing because it is not the point that only those or one narrow circle of people who follow them know what conclusions, what observed trends they have come to in their work because their experiences can and should be valuable to the system as a whole in order to get the system out of this benefits and permanently raise quality requirements when referenced to the next rotation. The HDZ Club will, of course, support this decision.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62167	Thank you very much. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Dunja Špoljar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62168	Thank you, Vice President, Deputy Minister, fellow MPs and fellow MPs. It is almost easy to say that it is easy to talk about such an affirmative bill in which nothing is disputed either by the position or by the opposition, so less than a week after the vote of a decision on the participation of members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in UN peacekeeping operations is ahead of us and this today's proposal for a decision to refer members of the armed forces to NATO's command structure, the NATO structure of forces and other national commands to operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership. Croatia joined NATO the most powerful military alliance in the world on 1 April 2009, so four years ago and thus reached one of its strategic foreign policy goals. Today, Croatia is a respected member of improved relations with allies, especially with the United States. Croatia, as a new member and as a loyal member, must participate in the defence of any member if its territorial integrity is questioned and participates in all other actions according to its capabilities and according to the decision of its Government and attests to the Parliament. In addition to all the rights that the Republics of Croatia belong to us and some duties, we then received 26 fixed command positions, so 25 plus 1 divided general position. The quota was reduced in November 2010, to NATO's Lisbon Alliance. 1st December 2012 we have 18 fixed construction sites left plus one general place that we share with Slovenia on a rotational basis this time. There are currently 16 members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia in those positions, but by next year, the quota will be completed. It is said in layman's terms that these two places are currently still occupied until it expires and the quota will be complete next year. In addition, Croatia points to the people and NATO structure of forces and multinational command. One person was sent to a multinational Northeastern Corps while one person was planned and sent to Germany by a multinational joint headquarters in Ulm in 2014. This staff, along with their headquarters duties, can also be deployed to the field of NATO operations for up to a year from three or four years of office, which is a flexibility that individual nations want to compensate for less formal positions. They are authorized there to do jobs that would otherwise be done in normal headquarters. Supporting the importance of the obligation of the Republic of Croatia to join full NATO membership, Croatia has accepted participation in the work of the NATO joint bodies, first and foremost in the commands and headquarters, and at the same time hoping that NATO will never need us as far as our own are concerned. The Advocacy Club supports the proposal for this decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62169	Thank you very much. My colleagues and colleagues, given that for some of the points that are in order, we do not have a proposing, so we do not have the conditions for discussion, then after this point we will discuss point 24. The rules on how to work and decide the committee to decide on a conflict of interest, give consent and report on the work of the commission, and by informing colleagues interested in the debate. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic's club.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62170	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President, colleagues and fellow MPs, Madam Deputy Secretary of Defense. In fact today, as already said by previous speakers, this is one text we only confirm what Croatia has signed, which was agreed with NATO in the accession and development of the NATO Pact command structure, so I would not repeat myself in this sense, where all our officers are in command structure, starting with what Bozinovic said from Naples, Šcecino and Ulma, etc. The quota of 25 officers was some sort of indicative quota. It is clear that the NATO Pact also has a trend of efficiency, and it is also very likely in this respect to the reduction of staff, so according to this report today, we have a fellow general position and 16 and 18, respectively, as already written according to the projections for 2014, 2015 and 2016 so as to refer our officers to these NATO Pact commands. However, what I particularly wanted to highlight is what is actually written and what is therefore signed by the decision of this Croatian Parliament, this House of Commons, which is on page 3 of the decision to refer members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia to NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national or multinational commands in operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership. Therefore, in that decision, Article 1 states members of the armed forces of the Republic of Croatia who are in NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national or multinational command may, therefore, be found unable to attend operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership in the course of their duties in 2015, 2016. So these officers can be included in the hotspots, in the military hotspots and other operations carried out by the NATO Pact, and this decision, which we are discussing here in the Parliament today, is confirmed. What in that, I'd say, in the opening part, wasn't quite as visible or seeing how they like to say it. So, this decision actually confirms that under NATO's leadership, our officers in these places can be redistributed, redistributed and in the areas of war operations, etc. He says further, in the operation, in operations and others, I don't mean surgical operations, but NATO's pact operations, therefore, and other NATO-led activities can be directed at the same time by up to 20 members of the Croatian Armed Forces referred to in paragraph 1 of this point. That's what's really important for the prominent, to point out whether. And since we are signatories and members of the NATO Pact, I think that NATO's pact policy is actually what we are getting here today as a report on this decision that NATO will implement for this 2014, 2015, 2016, which is actually a policy that, given Croatia's signature to join the NATO Pact, we simply have to respect and respect. That's why the HDSB Club will be here for this, for a proposal for a decision like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62171	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62172	We move to a vote on the points discussed. A proposal for a decision to send members of the armed forces to NATO's command structure, NATO's structure of forces and other national and multinational commands and operations and other activities abroad under NATO's leadership. The debate is closed. I'm voting on the motion for a decision. To make this decision, it takes a majority of the MPs' votes. I'm asking who's in. Who's against it? Are there any abstentions? I'm asking for a result. We've made this decision unanimously with 97 votes in favour.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62173	And since we now have the conditions for point 18, then before these two announced points are discussed: - Proposal for a Law supplementing the Security and Intelligence System Act of the Republic of Croatia, we will propose a Club of Representatives of the HDSSB, first reading, P.Z. No. 254; You have received the proposal in boxes. The provisions of the Rules of Procedure relating to first reading of the Law shall apply in the adoption of this Act. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law and the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security. You received the reports at the session. Introductoryly, on behalf of the applicant, he will explain the proposal of counterpart Josip Salapic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62174	Thank you very much, Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The HDSSB Club proposes to supplement the Law on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia. This bill of law is about a year or so in the parliamentary procedure. We discussed it in the Committee on National Security and Internal Policy. The content, i.e. by our proposal, and it is also attached to the Croatian State Attorney's Office and in our debate, we pointed out that such a legal arrangement should be applied to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. In particular, Article 66 of the Treaty on the The Act on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia shall be appointed and resolved by a decision signed by the President of the Republic of Croatia and by the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia. And the Committee of the Croatian Parliament responsible for national security gives a preliminary opinion. The law found that the Director of the Security Intelligence Agency was appointed on time of 4 years and the same person could be re-appointed as Director of the Security Intelligence Agency. The Director may be dismissed if he permanently loses his ability to carry out his duties if he fails to implement decisions by the Presidents of the Republic of Croatia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia to which he directs the Agency's work or decisions in connection with the supervision of the Agency's work. Then, because of a breach of the Constitution, the laws and regulations, abuse of office or overexecution of authority, violation of the confidentiality of classified data or of a conviction for a criminal offence which makes it unworthy to perform its duties. The HDSSB Club shall add to this article an addition to paragraph 3. we propose adding paragraph 4. which would say that the limitation of the term of office to the Director of Security Intelligence Agency that the same person may be the Director of the Security Intelligence Agency only two mandates consecutively, so two mandates per four years for a number of reasons. First because of the danger of abuse of the system at the expense of Croatian citizens and their Constitution and international contract of protected rights. We saw events in Vukovar on 18.11. on the day of remembering when the President of the Republic of Croatia said after the event that the security services, or security intelligence agency, had not done its job in the best way and that the representatives of the state authorities had not been alerted to possible developments in Vukovar. We have seen some cases launched by the state attorney's office and the BIAK that some information from the intelligence community system came out in the media and that before the competent services were treated with persons suspected of committing criminal offences according to the positive legal regulations of the Republic of Croatia that certain data that should be classified from the Security Intelligence Agency system were made public. This proposal has nothing to do with any person who is currently acting as director or should behave. The purpose of this proposal is that, given that the president of the Republic of Croatia who is directly elected in the elections elected by the citizens of the Republic of Croatia can only be two mandates consecutively because of some democratic standards, let's say not only the president but also other high-level officials, we consider that one person for 8 years in one office is quite enough to carry out his work with professional, quality and impartiality. No one shall send the Director of the Agency out of the system after the end of the term of office but there shall be another provision of the law where the person who was the Director of the Agency is retained in the system at other duties. We believe it is necessary because of the problems that arise in the intelligence community, in the security intelligence agency, but because of some way we should go if we have chosen that the Republic of Croatia is a European country with the highest democratic standards. This system, as well as the state attorneyship of the Republic of Croatia, should be limited to any successive set of mandates of any person in any of the above two mandates or 8 years, creating opportunities for possible and manipulation and abuse, and in such a way as to ensure that one and the same person in the same place performs very important duties, and as regards the highest democratic standards and the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia, the rights of citizens, I repeat once again, not entering into any name and name that currently performs duties, either in the Security and Intelligence Agency, whether in the State Attorney's Office, whether in the USKOK, whether in the Supreme Court, therefore, the intensity is that this system, in the light of the President of the Republic, and other systems that we have in the Republic of Croatia should be limited to two consecutive terms. So this is our proposal for a law on the security intelligence system. We also have a proposal for a law regarding the State Attorney's Office of the Republic of Croatia, the main state attorney elected by the Croatian Parliament, and we also believe that this should be two mandates in parallel, which would be quite enough given the system that the President of the Republic of Croatia, who also has the powers of supervision over these services, but also over the other system, can be only twice. I think that we should coordinate this in line with our European path and in line with our intensity that protection of human rights, fundamental freedom of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia must be at the highest level. We suggest that the representatives' clubs support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62175	Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the Club of Independent Representatives Damir Cain. He's not there, he's losing his right to argue on this wheel. On behalf of HDZ representative, colleague Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62176	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues. In connection with this bill, where it is proposed that the same person cannot be more than twice selected as Director of the Security Intelligence Agency, two things should actually be said. First, that practice has shown that no person has ever been the head of the agency more than two mandates, as far as I know, even two mandates. However, I think that the problem with the laws of this far more complex, that this whole legislation should start to change because it was created over a long period of time, did not take into account one full projection of the national security system and therefore there is a series of irregularities that should be changed. And let me, here from the point of view of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I would like to warn about those illogicalities that exist in the existing legislation, not getting into the scale of things given the sensitivity of some subjects, and I don't think it's even intended for these essential things to be discussed at the plenary session. So I would point out that the system is built of fragments, not planned as a whole and therefore functions as a series of independent solutions with a minimum of mutual cooperation and coordination. The difference in the status and treatment of individual components of the reporting and security system can also be recognised by Parliament's supervision of this system. For example, the law provides for parliamentary oversight of the security intelligence agency, the military-security-intelligence agency and, indirectly, the operational-technical centre. However, no parliamentary supervision is provided for by the National Security Council Office, the Information System Protection Office, the Operational Technical Centre, the Police Department and the Ministry of Interior in the part in which the creation and use of personal data bases, the exchange of personal data with foreign services, etc. According to existing legal provisions, the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, in order not to repeat the whole name, will use only the term committee further, giving its opinion on the appointment of SOA and military SOA leaders but not on the leaders of the other components of the reporting system. That opinion is not binding. However, no opinion shall be given on the appointment of the Head of the National Security Council Office, the Information System Security Institute, the Operational Technical Centre. It is also within the authority of the board to discuss the annual reports of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue, as well as the annual reports of the police administration. However, it is not in the jurisdiction, which is not logical, that if those reports are discussed, the Committee does not give an opinion on the appointment of the Director of the Police and Director of the State Administration for Protection and Rescue. On the other hand, even in this segment where the Committee is considering reports on the work of the Security Intelligence Agency and the Military Intelligence Agency and in one part of the one relating to the surveillance of the reporting system in the reports of the National Security Council Office, the Committee has no right or is not required by law to consider plans of the work of the Security Intelligence Agency and of the Military Security and Intelligence Agency and does not discuss, accordingly, the plans of the work of these other components of the reporting system. Therefore, if you do not have insight into the work plans, neither the state budget relating to the work of those services nor the annual reports of those services can be discussed accordingly, since there is no knowledge of what has been preceded and what have been the obligations of the current year. A particular problem I will not enter here is the problem of the annual work plans of the entire system that simply is not transparent, is not available to the board and it simply cannot discuss it. You still have another problem, and that's the problem of coordinating the entire system. The practice so far has been that the chairman of the Security Intelligence Agency Coordination Council was a member of the government who was also Minister of the Interior. It's logical on the one hand, but it's usually not good because there's a big difference between police and reporting jobs. And as a rule, most countries have solved it so that it has a special member of the government in charge of the national security system. A particular problem is the Security Intelligence System Act which defines the tasks of the National Security Council and I suppose that is probably the only example in the normal world where everything is set upside down. The National Security Council shall deal with surveillance, the primary task shall be to monitor the reporting system or national security system, instead of providing information, reports to the National Security Council to be familiar with the potential risks and to enable the Council to make decisions concerning national security. It's just wrongly set. And what we have is that in practice this council let me say politely barely meet that legal minimum that the law prescribes and it meets, and the sessions we hear on the newspaper are also being held on the phone. So, in conclusion, we can say that the key shortcomings of this system are that there is no parliamentary practice in either the Croatian Parliament or this Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, that they participate in discussions and objectives and tasks of the national security system, that there is no discussion of the annual plans and tasks of this system and that in that sense the objectives and tasks are past or outside or parallel system of parliamentary oversight. On the other hand, we have such partial solutions, that what, when we are already talking about civil surveillance, which is an important component and must be one important provision and parliamentary supervision of this system. However, it is vital that this system primarily serves whether it performs these basic tasks, but in this narrowed form it is evident that certain things simply slip away. People are very often or most, very sensitive when it comes to monitoring telephone traffic. The existing system provides a chance or possibility for parliamentary oversight of the monitoring, i.e. requirements for telephone surveillance of security services, but not of the police. Police are placing 90% of their demands for monitoring phone calls that amounted to about 40,000 numbers somewhere last year, but there is neither, no parliamentary oversight, nor through the board, nor through any other mechanisms. In short, there are a number of problems that should be redefined in one or a series of these laws concerning the national security system, and I think that this proposal that counterpart Salapic presented is not controversial, but simply insufficient in relation to the overall problem because much should be mentioned in order to have a quality system of national security. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62177	Thank you very much. Replica Josip Salapic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62178	Thank you, Vice President, Reverend Tudjman. You've been very broad and deep into the whole intelligence system and most of what you said, of course, I agree. I was also on the board when we discussed it and that problem in the intelligence system exists. But to begin with, we should take the first step, and it is the most important thing, regardless of what the same person did not survive under quotes in that place. We think it should be limited after all. There are other systems, it's connected. So also the State's Attorney's Office and the Security Intelligence Agency and the SCI, etc. Regardless, a person can do his job perfectly well, responsibly, and honestly, and be replaced for some other reasons. The supervision of the Croatian Parliament and the board of directors and you are leading the committee, I don't think it's enough regardless of the elements that are based on the law. We've seen that system control and system transparency are highly questionable. Some steps need to be taken legally. We know that this is not some major legal contribution to the whole problem, but to begin with, we think it would be necessary to limit it. Also, the Security Intelligence Agency and the persons coming out of it are witnesses and we see that this problem exists in our society, which is so-called. the problem of the anti-intelligence system, but also of the anti-intelligence communities where persons working in the system after leaving the system by someone's directives, whether they come from politics or not, work in a way that threatens the rights of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia and human rights at the highest level. Information that comes out of the system every day in public places where it shouldn't be a big problem, and we feel that we need to make a great deal of effort to regulate this system and bring it into order. That's the interest of the Republic of Croatia. That's where we must all be together. This is just the first step.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62179	Replication response, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62180	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Well, my colleague Salapic first, if we go from this last thing you've realized, by limiting the mandate to someone that there can be no double-chosen problem of these uses and the abuse of information after leaving the system is neither solved nor set. So that's another question that I believe should be solved, which is a serious problem and should be solved in another way. As far as this is concerned, we look only unilaterally, in that we protect ourselves from being in the system for too long, that this system doesn't cost or get into any other problems. However, if you are already proposing this, then the mechanism for protecting these people should have been proposed. Because if someone actually has two bosses to simplify things very easily, they can be colluded with these political interests. Therefore, it would be at least necessary that after someone has been removed to discuss this on the board, that this man may say and give his reasons and reasons why he has been removed so that there is also parliamentary oversight over those who are the primary users of the system. So I say a lot more complex matter seems to me with this one change or addition especially because she doesn't have her own certificate in practice, we won't do much, and my proposal here is that we go into the fundamental reconstruction of these legal provisions of the entire system.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62181	Boro Grubisic, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62182	Thank you very much. Dear colleague Tudjman, I know that you are both directed and how you spoke in this matter in your debate, but what I have noticed and that is almost the first sentence that is a bit sarcastic that no one has survived two mandates in the security intelligence system is actually a premise that relativises trying to relativize our proposal and does not actually get into the essence of the problem. And we know there are problems in that sense. We know that some of our politicians came from that service, and we know that here's the latest example where I'm not going to tell the President of the Republic, but the President of the Republic told us about the problem in Vukovar. Then we know about the leak of information, and that's why this is, as counterpart Salapic says, perhaps the first step, and if we listen to that folk fish stink from the head, therefore if you have an orderly relationship at the top of SOA and when it's lined up, and yet it's one military structure that might say it's not military, but it's kind of like that in that case it's all right, and it shouldn't be like boredom, right? You spoke for yourself about the problem of 40,000 phone numbers, etc., but that's what I'm going to say in the debate, so I wouldn't want everything in this replica. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62183	Replication response, Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62184	Look, we have one practice inherited from the socialist system that first works when something's wrong or someone thinks something's wrong, then it's a shift. You had an example of the U.S. means the biggest disaster or failure of their entire reporting system was September 11th. No one changed after that but went into an analysis of the entire system to see where the error was, which was not good, which was why there was a failure and only two, three years later, a shift occurred when it concluded what had to be redefined in the system so that the errors would not happen again. That's why I'm saying this request again isn't controversial, but it's not enough. That's the key to the problem. Let's say a far greater shift would be if it were the obligation of all these segments of the national security system to at least present their work plans to the board for a certain period and thus could be controlled and seen what is planned to do, what are the effects, how effective this system is, how useful it is, and finally whether the funds that are allocated to them are good. And on the other hand, it would be the right path or at least one segment of that road to control the leak or not leak that information or everything that's mentioned because my opinion is that we have a number of other factors that affect these processes but are placed in such a way that we deal with ourselves.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62185	On behalf of the HDSSB club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62186	Thank you very much, well-respected Vice President of the Croatian Parliament, colleagues and fellow MPs. Here is the basis of my colleague Tudjman's debate that I expect the opposition party, the biggest opposition party in the number of MPs, will submit one bill of law, a new legislative proposal precisely in the direction of what counterpart Tudjman Miroslav said and that we will therefore soon discuss this as we are now discussing this first step in perhaps if the MPs actually understand our proposal and that second step that would lead to the state-of-the-art in the security intelligence service or agency. What has offered us, therefore, is only part of our legal proposals starting with the proposal before which we invested nearly three months ago on the situation in Vukovar, so it is with that in 58 places. The second proposal was also to limit the two mandates of the chief state attorney and the third proposal was to restrict the two mandates of the director of the security intelligence agency. Therefore, the director of the agency also appoints and appoints the President of the Republic and the Prime Minister. It is said that no one has survived two mandates at the head of a security intelligence agency in the past 22 years, which does not mean that this cannot or will not happen in the future. So we're not going to prejudge what's waiting for us. Why am I saying that? Why did we write this proposal? Because during his duties as director of the agency and he is considered the most responsible, he is the coat of the di gang, which they would say, so there have been a lot of excesses, coming under the latest what he is, that I do not repeat myself constantly as a parrot spoke to the president in Vukovar. Then there's a leak of information, and then it comes to the fact that after I say serving in a security intelligence agency, some individuals end up maybe not with their own guilt, and maybe that there's one that I don't tell a chateau in a steaming intelligence underground. After two mandates, the Director of the Security Intelligence Agency remains in the system, so he won't get us to fire, leg, etc., that he will no longer be in the system of the intelligence, security intelligence agency, but my God, we rotate the heads of the hospital departments, hospital directors, down to the president of the Republic who also has a two-term limit, which would be the director of SOYA or DORHA for life or eternity, immortal as they say. There's no reason, let's think too much about it as MPs. Well, after all, if no one has seen two mandates, then that's another reason to raise your hand for this proposal. You've spoken here and that's true, and I've seen it in the media, but also here in the parliamentary debate, it's been said that 40,000 numbers and let's say 40 thousand and citizens were tapped, so, cell phone, phone-telephony. Each of us here is guaranteed at least 200 numbers in his cell phone, at least 200 numbers, and now you count 40,000 so let's talk to 20 people that's what, eight million. So, with 40,000 taps, all the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are almost tapped, there's no one who isn't, even a kid who calls Dad and Mom, if Dad's number's been tapped. Now, what is the surveillance of all this, what are the possibilities for those information that are daily, which are good for day-to-day political support to leak to the public. That's the problem. And we've seen that there's such leaks of information so you don't know who read the mail, how the mail leaked, not just one, more here and here our parliamentary representatives, or even the minister, the minister. How can someone post an email, a newspaper post an email, it is also addressed to it, either by the email sender himself or by the person who received the email said or by this third party that we are talking about. So for daily political needs someone is in the center for, the operating technical centre can therefore, all roads of water to Rome, excuse the operating technical centre, all electronic connections of all telethon operators to the operating technical centre. It's not a secret. That's what we discussed here. That's why I expect you dear colleagues to, given that there is absolutely no political need to be, because we had a police depolitisation, before the end of Mrs Kosor's term here we discussed the law on police depolitisation. That's what was said. So if we take this factor into account and the fact that Mr. Miroslav Tudjman has not experienced two mandates, there is no reason for the law to be on both sides of this right and on your so-called. Take the left. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62187	We have a replica of Miroslav Tudjman.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62188	Thank you. First of all, as far as listening may be concerned, to make it clearer, I have said 40,000 numbers of traffic monitoring not listening to conversations, what kind of number is that approved by the DORH or the court, what is that number that doesn't know? However, from this you can already see, monitor networks and contacts and relations but it is not under any control. However, what you said, we are here and you and your colleague Salapic have called on the President of the Republic that the services have not done their work in Vukovar. They didn't do a job in Vukovar. President of the Republic, you didn't call for that, that's what I was going to say. We're here on a very slippery ground, you know. And you have an evaluation of the Prime Minister who's quite the opposite that says it's not a task of service. And there it is, but there's a question of what we mean by that. If we expect or expect that the services should have their sources in all the headquarters that organise the protests, then it's one system that I'll never be. Therefore, it just means that safety assessments should work, they just work the other way. And that's what security services do, not reporting services. And here we've confused simply the jobs and dimensions of security services and reporting services by creating a security intelligence agency. And that's another fundamental problem that should be decided by law. So this kind of thing that's being set up with these demands whether the service was or wasn't working, they should or shouldn't have done something. We don't even have a legal assumption that we invite someone to, or to, the Committee on Internal Policy and to, and to, national security and to discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62189	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62190	Thank you. Dear Comrade Tudjman, you are in, and in your debate, and here you are now mentioning 11.9. So, what happened in the United States. Here we had it 11 times 9. So, I don't want to compare the consequences that have occurred, 11 times 1 times, 1 9 and 11 2 9, so it's about that I would really say, it's not a problem not to say, that's one less security problem and I agree with that, that's one assessment that could have been done without the full use of all those machines that have a security-security service. And that we only quoted the President of the Republic, so I'm saying, we quoted him as saying, "Do we fully agree with that statement, that's another thing, but we quoted the President of the Republic?"
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62191	And Joseph Salapic, the replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62192	Comrade Grubisic, you have rightly talked about the problem of listening, about the problem of tracking people who are potentially suspected of crimes and their families. I believe that this is the most dangerous consequence and activity that directly affects human rights at the highest level. People working in the system, and I advocate that in the Penal Code of the Republic of Croatia the intelligence officers, i.e. persons working in the services of the Republic of Croatia, will be punished by the maximum sentences of prison if they bring to the public information concerning any person outside the service and jurisdiction they have received under the decisions of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Croatia. Not for any reason, not in any particular political way. We are witnesses when the elections that many state attorneys in the Republic of Croatia are buried with numerous anonymous criminal reports, numerous data from the intimate lives of politicians and their families, persons who run for anything, absolutely everything that lies in the most intimate lives of people, candidates, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Croatia. The penal system of the Republic of Croatia and the entire legal framework for the supervision of this security intelligence system, including the need for the Croatian Assembly and the relevant parliamentary committee to have the maximum power to invite people to provide information to the Croatian Assembly. And we know who chooses this system, but unfortunately it doesn't control it. It's much more dangerous than any referendum issue we've asked so far and any definition of fundamental human rights. These people can't be outside of anyone and can't stand to be above God. By believing in their expertise and their loyalty to the interests of the Republic of Croatia, I deeply advocate that these are really only the interests of the Republic of Croatia and not the personal interests of people who work in the system and who sell their honor and responsibility to Croatia to public media, televisions for the purpose of propaganda and not only who.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62193	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62194	A colleague of Salapic, here at the Assembly speaker, is said not to listen to a large number of people in Croatia when the minister, the former minister, spoke about telling the listening, about electronic surveillance, let me say, not only the phone, the mobile phone, but everything else as well as America as follows the whole world. So we have a chance to follow all of Croatia. And e-mails and everything, we all know, it's a notorious fact. So 40, so it's said it's not a lot of numbers just 40,000 phone numbers. Well, look, I don't only communicate with one person or I don't know one person but 100 people, or I don't know how many more. So they all go into the system, whoever calls me or I call someone, gets into the listening system. That's a fact. We live in Big Brothers. All together, and we all MPs and all, all of Croatia, as well as the whole world, are no exception to that. So it's expected in the work of the security intelligence service primarily trusts those people who do it. They certainly know everything about each and every one of us, but that trust and honesty that you'd have to do when you swear to work in the Security Intelligence Service and that some things like they say go with him as well as with a priest like when confession goes to the grave that's the fact. And not to leak information for 3,000 kunas, 2,000 kunas that sell information to the press. Well, then we're all actually living in some kind of Big Brothers, and we're watching when we're going to get into the I don't know, I'm not going to name a newspaper that does it without checking and without any control. So sometimes in politics there was to say fair play, because Jesus said to throw the first stone who did not sin. Who hasn't sinned, yes, so we should stick to it in politics. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62195	In an individual debate, counterpart Branko Vuksic reported. He's not there, he's losing his right to argue on this wheel. Do you want to talk to your colleague Salapic in the end? Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the bill later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62196	Proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the Security and Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, first reading, P.Z. No. 254. The debate is closed. In accordance with the proposal of the Committee on Internal Policy and National Security, I am giving the next conclusion as a home working body. The proposal for a law supplementing the Act on the Security Intelligence System of the Republic of Croatia, proposed by the HDSSB Representatives Club, is not adopted for the reasons set out in the Internal Policy and National Security Committee Report. Who's in? Against? Are there any abstentions? What's the score? We accepted this conclusion with 78 votes for and 21 against.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62197	And now, as we have agreed, we will discuss - The Rules on how to work and decide the Commission's decision to decide on a conflict of interest - granting consent The Proposer of the Regulation is the Committee for Decision on a conflict of interest in accordance with Article 30. Law to prevent conflicts of interest. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on Law, the Committee on the Constitution, the Rules of Procedure and the political system. You received the reports at the session. The regulation will be explained by the chairman of Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic's commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62198	Honorable MPs and MPs. The regulation on how to work and decide the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest which is before you is the result of the reflection of the members of the commission who were first elected in accordance with the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest which took effect in March 2011. As you know, this law has established the Commission as an independent, permanent and independent state body whose members carry out their work in full-time and professional engagement. These definitions were an important starting point to be considered and to create provisions on how to work and decide. The content and development of the solutions that are in front of you is partly based on what we have analysed and seen as a state of affairs at the very beginning of the mandate, and is partly the result of the vision and desire of the members of the commission on what the future of this institution should be. The time-out that has elapsed since the moment we first came up with these provisions and until the day that this rule is discussed at the plenary session gave us the opportunity and opportunity to see to what extent what we put in place as the content of this Regulation would achieve certain results in practice. I believe you know that so far the commission has done 34 sessions. At these sessions, we discussed an extremely large number of cases. During 2013, about a hundred new conflicts of interest procedures were launched in which we determined the infringements committed by officials of the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest, we brought over the reasoned 200 opinions at the request of the officials themselves, and we had the opportunity to see whether such construction would achieve good results in practice through the work on these cases. It seems to us that what is now standing before you as some sort of final text is a solution that should be supported. As you know, from that initial text there have been some changes and additions in accordance with what we have received and as indications and remarks on the first version of the text. The relevant newspapers of this Regulation shall constitute provisions which shall be regulated and detailed in the design of the registers. In all the parts of what has been put into the commission's jurisdiction, the Commission has achieved some visible shifts and results in 2013 and what remains to be completed, and the time is that December is already very little, these are precisely registers that we cannot publish, we cannot establish without this Regulation. So from the point of view of what the Commission's priorities are, that's exactly what's our priority. So I ask you, when making a decision on whether you will give your consent to these regulations, to make sure that the procedural part of the procedure is in fact a somewhat elaborated and very law on the prevention of conflicts of interest, as well as the General Administrative Procedure Act. The part that we really need as a tool to complete what we had as a programme and a plan in the first year of office is registers, that's the part that maybe the public expects most of us, that's the part that I believe will achieve to the greatest extent possible preventive action of the commission. There our citizens will have in mind in a clear and reviewed way all the information they would need to be easily monitored who does what during their term of office and how they are private and whether they are cut off from the public. So much for now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62199	Thank you very much. Do the committee's reporters want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62200	Dear Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the adoption of the Rules on the work of the Committee for the Prevention of Conflict of Interest should be observed in the introduction as part of three events or processes that take place in parallel. One is the fact that for the first time, the commission in the right sense of the word is independent, professionalised and therefore must raise the level of its own mobilization and satisfy the expectations that exist according to the work of the commission. In this regard, their task is not a little simple, so this Regulation serves to distinguish perfectly many things that have otherwise been the result of certain customs that occurred during the commission’s work. The second circumstance to be taken into account is the fact of high expectations for the public and citizens on the work of the Commission. The Commission is considered to be one of the bodies contributing to the trust and credibility of public duties. That's the first priority. Since this was not so understood in every part of the history of the Commission, then we have difficulty in having high expectations, but practical results have often lagging behind. And the third circumstance that I can't mention is the fact that while we are discussing this in our neighbouring country Slovenia, the commission of such a similar composition and the task has resigned, all members of the Committee, and on the streets of Ljubljana are currently protests that mean the support of the work of their Committee. This is one of those things that well indicates how important it is to meet citizens' expectations in this regard. However, I will concentrate only on the Regulation because it is the item of the agenda. The regulation was necessary and earlier was because it regulates the details of the procedure, because it imposes on the Committee and only binds the Committee in certain matters in which it is important that the procedure be well arranged. I'll point out some areas in that sense. First of all, it's the openness of the Committee's work. The commission will have citizens' trust only if their actions are such that they allow not only the media, but also those interested to be the right control of their actions. However, this Regulation regulates the situation well. There are those things that need to first examine the facts, and then present them to the public. That part of the procedure is not quite open to the public by its nature and it needs to be actually well done here and done. The other thing is registers. The registers provided for here are, in fact, a kind of fence or a restriction of action, the work of the Commission in which the Commission only decides, i.e. it determines the existence of these registers that it will not deal with everything, but only those persons or those procedures that are sought and listed in the register. It's not just about property cards, it's not just about companies or firms to which such a register will apply. It is that, in this context, it is necessary to specify the area of action and to specify the data necessary for the management of such registers. And there's another thing about this that maybe the Regulation itself doesn't contain, and maybe it does. The fact that there's not enough knowledge about this, that's exactly what these registers are going to refer to. Education and knowledge of governmental public officials where they are located, according to the registers of their obligations. That's what the Regulation regulates. In addition, Mrs. Oreshkovic pointed out the regulation of the internal structure. As with any regulation, he sets out in a very specific and precise way what the tasks of authorising those who run the Commission are. This means both presidents and members of the Committee as well as professional and other services serving the Commission. In this, there were some misunderstandings or objections in that way trying to actually protect the professionalism of those who work in the Committee. However, it is more important for me here to protect the integrity and security of those who work in the Committee. The Commission that would be weakened, which would actually have the position of a servant in relation to those who decide on this political system, would not be able to perform their function. It's over. Bringing such a regulation is an assumption that the Commission is doing its job neatly. The adoption of this Regulation will, in fact, mean that the Commission can no longer justify that there are no certain norms that limit them in their work. From now on, the Committee has just proposed a regulation. We can only express our high expectations in this respect and adoption, i.e. giving consent to the Regulation. We will oblige the Commission to intensify and make its work effective.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62201	Thank you very much. Josip Salapic has a replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62202	Thank you very much, Vice President. Your Honor, Mr. Craiger. I fully support the trend of developing the Committee's work to prevent conflicts of interest. This road does not exist only this year in 2013, but several years ago. But what is particularly important, and that is part of what is regulated and what Mrs. Oreshkovic said about me is an important education of officials because it is not only a matter of catching someone that has done something contrary to the law and to their public interest which, or the official, a politician at any duty is obliged to work, but is important not only at the state level, but also in the units of local administration and self-government. I think there's a bigger problem there, because there are people in the election running from different spheres of life. Not everyone is educated and educated enough to know what their duty is under the Law to prevent conflicts of interest. Because it's very important that the Commission, except for this part, normally fine but also this educational phase that would go to local administrations and self-government units, to municipalities, cities and counties, to all people who deal with public duties. Because this is an important area to regulate. People have a hard time living, the economic crisis in Croatia is current. Simply because of all circumstances, the public sees politics and politicians, public officials with very different eyes. Then we need to make efforts to ensure that this duty is honorable and responsible, that the public interest is above our personal interest, which is our duty and mission, but also the obligation to educate people who work in politics and in public systems to be trained, informed of what their rights and duties are. Sometimes for a purely unknown reason that needs to be fulfilled as a form of duty, a person makes mistakes, and then a court of public sometimes becomes much more critical and more severe than he should be. So then I stress on education and fully support both the rules and the work of the commission and the new structure, that's fine.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62203	Replication response, Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62204	I'm supposed to thank you for the replica because we feel the same way. I'm just reporting for a replica because the commission in Osijek just held an education seminar that should have helped with what you're saying. The truth is, we may be able to talk more about it in the agenda section of the Work Report, not the rulebook.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62205	On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62206	I thank Mrs. Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, dear Mrs. Oreshkovic. We agree with those who have previously mentioned the need to support the Commission's work and also the need to adopt this Regulation on how to work and decide the Commission's conflict of interest. The fact is also that this path to the development of the effectiveness of the Committee for Conflict of Interest still extends several years back and has not just occurred in the past year or in the past year and a half. Also, the rulebook was already in the procedure of granting consent to this Croatian Parliament, it seems to me in April that it was withdrawn for further amendments and additions, but there are also some details that we could discuss with the purpose of what we are, which we will probably all agree on for the more effective action of the Commission itself and, of course, according to the prescribed norms that the rule as such should contain. For example, in Article 7(1), which defines the President of the Commission to submit a proposal for a Regulation on the way, work and decision-making of the Commission is not indicated to whom it could have been. It would also not be excessive to state in Article 30 that the Regulation lays down a natural commission with the consent of the Parliament, regardless of what is regulated by the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest. In point 4(1), it is also defined that the President of the Commission shall decide on the admission to the State Service of the schedule to the places of transfer and making available and termination of the State Service and on the other rights and obligations of the Head of the Commission's Office. We do not know why only about the rights and obligations of the head of the commission's office, why not in others, because in the withdrawn regulation proposal, if we are not mistaken, it has been defined for all state officials of the office. It seems to us it was a better suggestion. It may be unnecessary to point out that the president and members of the commission are involved in the work at committee meetings as defined in Article 9, I believe that this is logically understood. On the other hand, this Regulation, which is called the Regulation on the way of working and deciding of the Commission on conflict of interest, does not prescribe certain matters of greater importance for the work of the Commission such as detailed rules in the procedure of giving an opinion or in the procedure for deciding on a conflict of interest, as is the case now in the existing Regulation which will, of course, cease to apply under this Regulation. Article 10 of the proposed Regulation provides that the chairman of the commission may appoint one or more members of the committee as rapporteur in certain procedures. In the current rule, that seemed to be the commission, and we think it was a more democratic procedure. It means that the entire commission stands between the submission of a particular report. Article 17 provides for expert meetings to discuss legal and other professional issues called by the President of the Commission, but it is not clear whether only members of the Commission or experts attend the meeting? We assume that, of course, such a session includes invited experts because otherwise it would probably be a regular session of the commission, not some thematic session where experts are invited. In the new Regulation in Chapter 7, the financial operations governing the financial and material operations of the commission, we welcome this absolutely because it leads to a more transparent work of the commission financed from the state budget. What they might in some way also point out as a lack of this Regulation is a provision on the discharge of the duties of members of the commission which could be initiated by the majority of votes by the Commission and under the law is the Committee for Selection, appointment and administrative work of the Croatian Parliament which then determines the existence of reasons for resolution. The new Regulation does not cover the possibility of a committee member being resolved by a committee whose members, however, can better assess the possible reasons for the resolution during the commission's work. All in all, we appreciate that the adoption of this Regulation is, of course, necessary for the good work of the Commission on conflict of interest. We agreed on the importance and here are examples from Slovenia concerning conflict of interest. What we will certainly be able to discuss more about the submission of the 2012 Report is, of course, repercussions to both the social and political scene of the work and the conclusions of the commission which, regardless of when the commission does a specific job and says certain problems in the conflict of interest are real reactions neither from those who make decisions nor from a wider maybe social mile. So much for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62207	Thank you very much. On behalf of HDSSB representative Boro Grubisic's club. Here you go, buddy.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62208	Thank you very much, Madam Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, Madam President of the Commission for Decision on the conflict of interest, therefore the distinguished Mrs. Oreshkovic. We know a good chronology of events, formations, pauses in the work of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. Here it seems to me that we finally entered into one I want to say calm course but that the conflict of interest committee has come to life, starting with this regulation on how to work, and later in the second point and reports from the Commission on conflict of interest. The expectations of our public regarding work and the results published by the Commission in view of openness, given the public of work, are high. Especially with what's happening in our society and what's going on, and it's not a drama, but something that, in fact, a tragedy would be better said, drama has comedies and tragedies. But these are the tragedies that have led individuals to become enormous differences between the vast majority of the Croatian people and the citizens of a small minority. So the Commission for the conflict of interest which is therefore required to enter and obtain information about the property situation is some sort of straw of hope, salvation or information about who owns it and has it in the Republic of Croatia. Even though the commission is not able to get into all the data and what is reported. It is good because of this and the address of your commission, the street of Prince Mutimura, with all due respect to Prince Mutimura as a historical person, but if we were to separate that word in the blur of peace perhaps it would be, you chose a very good address for although you did not choose but it is good and it is very perhaps picturesquely displayed that your address is even signifiable. Since the colleagues here have actually said everything and if this was material I would say what is working and where are prescribed, where there are propositions in the rulebook in which everything is spoken and perhaps what should not be the subject of the assembly, plenary session of the Assembly, and that is the appearance of the seal, right, etc. but it's a good thing that it's all written and explained the two main premises that exist in this material. So it's the public of work, the openness of work and registers. What counterpart Salapic emphasized, therefore, education. I can't come to my colleague Kregar said there was a seminar or a meeting recently. I think that since the number of officials in local self-government units is 450 municipalities, 130,125 cities, 19 counties and the city of Zagreb and all those officials who belong not under control and the need to report their property status, it might be that we should also talk about being under these municipalities, cities and other memos, I believe that you do so. The decision-making committee on conflict of interest regarding the obligation of officials to deliver their property status at the beginning of the year, as well as what it says here, any changes that take place during the year in the asset situation to inform the Commission of the conflict of interest and therefore by an official public letter from the street of Prince Mutimir. The HDSSB Club really, given what is written here and what is here, we also have the satisfaction of finally stabilising the Commission on conflict-making of interest, which has begun with its work and which is a little bit of that change. What is happening in Slovenia, I do, I would like it not to happen in Croatia since here is the Slovenian Commission for Conflict of Interest and to announce that it has become a matter of dissatisfaction with the Slovenian people but given the public's work, I do not know whether there exists other than your website, therefore, and other opportunities to inform the public, of what is involved in the conflict of interest and our officials. We know here from the latest affairs that there were people who had a lot of stuff on their property cards, so the public was watching it silently, until it probably used someone to start some kind of procedure. Clearly, the Commission for Conflict of Interest does not move it but that the public knows some things about the property situation of the officials, so here we are starting from me and so on, it's really a need. For this reason, we will support this proposal, or regulation on how to work and decide the commission to decide on a conflict of interest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62209	Thank you very much. And the final word of the chairman of the committee, Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go, Mrs. Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62210	I'll try very briefly and stick to the subject. Two important things, the public working commissions, of course, and the law stipulates that committee sessions are public. The work so far has shown that, in fact, in the fullest sense, the aim of this public work of the commission is not being realized. At first, certain sessions were held because we had just come into office, which because of the names and last names of officials on the agenda, it was said that what the committee was doing was getting to know the public well and then for a time the presence of the commission in the media had stopped quite well. The result is that everything the Commission achieved in 2013 was not known enough and it was actually bad with two aspects. On the one hand, because that's how public change is created. On the other hand, because it is also a good way to get to know certain situations that may not have been sufficiently familiar at local and regional level. The Regulation does not contain the workings of the Board in matters of education. When we were putting together this rule, we used to run some kind of established legal logic that we didn't have to prescribe everything. We also respected the views of the Constitutional Court, which made it clear that procedural provisions should actually be regulated by law rather than by sublaw. As far as education is concerned, it is important to say that in 2013, the Commission spent a total of 8 educations, i.e. we spent the education of officials at local and regional level in a total of 8 counties. We have targeted local and regional self-government officials by respecting the fact that, especially in small municipalities, it is very often that officials do not have strong logistics around them, they do not have sufficient training and very often, and this is also shown by the items we had on the agenda in 2013, simply, of course, not even the citizens of ignorance is particularly prevented by those who represent leaders in their midst. But these are living circumstances. So it happened that in one part of the legal provisions, a substantial change in the legal rule was made in half of the mandates of officials acting at local, regional level in the 2009-2013 term, especially when it comes to membership in legal bodies and supervisory committees of commercial companies. A number of cases in which we have already completed the procedure and have imposed sanctions are clearly the result of insufficient guidance. When we considered how to conduct the education of the first four counties were conducted before the local elections, partly by model and by the way education was conducted in 2012, you will hear more about it when we talk about the 2012 report. It was just an education in Osijek after which education was conducted in three other counties. Here yesterday we held an education in Dubrovnik-Neretvanska, it was actually a transition point for us. In Osijek, it was an extremely good response. As members of the committee, we were not satisfied with the way we present what our mission is. And just now education in Osijek served as a good foundation, as a good start for the development of a new model, a new programme for the implementation of that education. Our goal was to actually, and I think that through at least these three educations that followed, we achieved good communication. We have tried to find a way for us officials, especially at local, regional level, because certain provisions of the existing Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest prove to be insufficiently practical, such as those which may be in one part more form than the actual content that achieves its goal, which is to prevent some conflict of interest. We've opened up the possibility of them making their remarks, their criticisms, their suggestions. We've given them the opportunity to evaluate our work too so that we, based on this information and this knowledge, can create our programs for the future. I would like to say that although this rule on education does not contain a single letter in that section of the commission's jurisdiction, in 2013, it sought to spark something new, produce something new. The result may be visible in the following years. But it will also be visible when officials realize that coming to that education is mandatory. Let's say yesterday in Dubrovnik-Neretva County we had a pretty bad response and it's up to us to find a way to make such educations or at least a brief summary of what was going on in that education finds its way to the general public. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62211	Replica Milorad Batinic, vice president of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62212	Thank you, Madam Vice President. Namely, Mrs. Oreshkovic, what you said was a problem in local and regional self-government. I wasn't, I hope I won't even be in a conflict of interest, however, many colleagues have just been due to the non-compliance of certain legal proposals have come and have been in a phase to be in conflict of interest. Well, I just don't know if it's your body's practice that, even when it comes to passing certain laws, we might be able to prevent certain things from being given an opinion in advance. In particular, it was also a matter of boards of directors, supervisory boards, etc. Especially now as regards volunteers of certain leaders, commissioners, mayors, and the behaviour of some parallel functions. Well, here's as pure as an appeal and suggestion that even with some laws that you might in your experience be making changes and additions. Or that some laws where there is now a doubt that you, on your part, suggest to the resolution ministries that certain frameworks be defined more precisely so as not to come up with a sequence of ignorance, misunderstandings in conflict of interest. That's it, thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62213	Replication response, Mrs. Dalia Oreshkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62214	I thank you for that proposal. We are actually already working on it, but the fact that the previous Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest in the conduct of public duties changed I would say too many times. Very often, amendments and additions to the law were made without a broader thought about which solution would actually represent one progress and one well-organized system as a whole. In particular, when it comes to officials at local and regional level, it has been shown that one provision or the way in which the provision set out in the Law on Local Elections is caused by confusion or the need for interpretation in which this provision is in conflict with some Article of the Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest. That's what causes legal uncertainty. Certainly we will be on our side, and I say here we have encouraged dialogue to understand the other side of the commission's work. We're not just a supervisory-repressive-control body, we are, and that part we've shown that we're doing without fear, without delay, which is said without a pardon, but the other part should be that preventive. We should be a professional professional body that can point out which parts of different laws, which, by not being clear enough, are not precise enough to lead to the fact that they are most often broken in practice not always in a bad way. We will do such proposals, we are working on them right now, we are also trying to get feedback from those to whom these provisions apply, but we are not inclined to make progress without good preparation, without good debate, including not only the general public but also legal theorists, those who follow a particular area and can, in that sense, give their and constructive criticisms, comments and some suggestions, perhaps some we didn't even imagine at first. That's what we're going to do in 2014.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62215	Thank you. I'm closing the debate. We'll vote on the motion for a decision later.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62216	I am voting in the Rules on how to work and decide the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest - giving consent. The debate is closed. Therefore, I am voting on the decision to give consent to the Regulation on the way of work and the decision of the Commission to decide on a conflict of interest. Who's in? Against? Restraint? I'm asking for a result. We took the decision by 82 votes for and 17 abstentions. That concludes the vote. We're going to stop working now, and we're going to continue on Tuesday at 9:00 and 30 minutes with the Family Law proposal. Thank you all and have a nice weekend!
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62217	And we will begin the debate on - The report on the work of the Commission on the conflict of interest decision for 2012 The Commission submitted a report on the basis of Article 30 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. Law to prevent conflicts of interest. You've received the motion for an act in boxes. The Government of the Republic of Croatia delivered an opinion. The debate was conducted by the Committee on the Constitution, Rules of Procedure and the political system. Introduces the report by the chairman of the committee, Mrs Dalia Oreskovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62218	As you yourself know the report of the Committee for Decision on Conflict of Interest for 2012 may be one of the shortest and most inconclusive reports on which the Croatian Parliament has so far had the opportunity to decide. Of course, all the things that former committees have achieved and achieved so far should be respected. The period in which the commission was absent, which is the whole of 2012 may be the most regrettable part of the path of development of this institution. As you know, by disbanding the previous Assembly's call, he suspended the mandate of those members of the committee who came from the ranks of parliamentary deputies. It was 6 out of 11 members in total, thereby losing the quorum for work and decision-making in those cases of the Commission's jurisdiction, which requires most members. This resulted in the fact that no committee meeting was held throughout 2012, no decision on conflict of interest was taken, and this may have led to the most serious consequences, no reasoned opinion was taken at the request of officials on how to act in the event of a question of a situation which raises doubts about the principles of public duties. What could have been done under such conditions was education. Educations were conducted in 10 counties, education was conducted by those members of the commission who came from the ranks of prominent public employees and staff in the commission's office. To what extent these educations have achieved their effect, it is difficult to respond. The information we are now slowly getting tells us that these educations have been relatively poorly visited, or the response of officials to these educations has not been good. In part, it was a reason that education was not maintained, and it was known that the commissions were not at that time. I hope that this situation will never happen again, and I hope that Slovenia will not happen again. There's actually not much more to say about the report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62219	Thank you very much. Does a representative of the board want to take a word for it? No, I don't. I'm opening a debate. On behalf of the HDZ Representatives Club, counterpart Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62220	Thank you, Madam Vice President. My colleagues and colleagues, dear gentlemen Oreshkovic. I am pleased to discuss the 2012 Commission's report on conflict of interest, regardless of what we could hear, because of the sequence of circumstances and there were not so many concrete results, but this report was on the agenda, there was an opportunity to find it on the agenda, to discuss it at the plenary session, and reports from 2011 on HRT's work are still at the bottom of the agenda and to ask whether we will have any luck, whether such a consolidation of political forces will be agreed to experience it in this mandate, but we will try to constantly warn the President of the Parliament because it is clearly necessary to point out. Because every time we warn him, he just forgets it. So here we have one report on practically five pages. The problems were, of course, created on 22 December 2011, when the term of office of six representatives who were members of the Committee on Conflict of Interest and throughout 2012 were what can be said was education and officials at all levels on the prevention of conflicts of interest carried out in 10 counties which was absolutely to be welcomed. The commission has moved into new rooms that it has won for use in the streets of Prince Mutimir. I hope that address has nothing to do with the commission's work of course. I'll remember this time when we came, how there was a situation in this assembly when the Commission voted. He will recall colleagues who are more than one member of the Croatian Parliament's assembly that in the tradition of the work of this House there were certain decisions that were made by agreement of political parties clubs here in the Croatian Parliament. In some ways, we can call it a political consensus, and then such committees and similar ones have been elected unanimously. Unfortunately, we haven't had the opportunity to make such an agreement as an opposition this time when it was done by full members of the Committee. You remember that time we left the assembly because we couldn't reach an agreement with the ruling majority in some way. It will therefore not be possible to speak much more about 2012 except for the number of applications received. What can be read and what is very interesting is what happened recently, that we have one minister and one minister for whom the Committee of Conflict of Interest found that they are in conflict of interest, who have to pay a fine and nothing. I almost quoted a popular folk saying "past grandmother with cookies" to no one. There is a conflict of interest, ministers get fines caught in a conflict of interest so we call it the 10th War era, or as it's already conveniently done, pay a fine of 10, 15000 kuna, and that's the end of the story. Then we have even more interesting phenomena, let's say the director of the main Croatian broadcasting doesn't recognize the Commission's findings and says no, I'm not in conflict of interest, what must. And he says that simply that finding by the Committee of Conflict of Interest does not accept and that the Commission has called him to account for what he has forgotten if I am not mistaken to enter a hotel in its property. So what kind of messages do we send? We have even more interesting examples where we have a person who is at the same time a member of the Council for Electronic Media and is sitting in the Governing Council of HINA. So, in an independent regulator and in a national news agency. The conflict of interest phenomenal, drawn and still no responsibility and that a person after several months still has these duties. Now, of course, when the report is being discussed, it is well and positively concluded that the Committee on the Prevention of Conflict of Interest has called for the minister's responsibility, of course I welcome it. But there's also a question of why the Commission, what is it all about, and where is it going together? Does that lead to a better society? Is there really a whole story about conflict of interest solved by someone just paying the fine and continuing the story afterwards? Is there really a difference in someone saying no, I don't recognize the Commission's finding of conflict of interest because I'm not a state official, because when I agreed that I would come to that position, no one told me I would be an official. Who did we make this deal with, and why did we make the deal? In that sense lies our concern for this whole story. Of course, it is commendable that the Committee of course made those steps. That's not a question, and everyone's gonna say hello. The problem is what comes after, because this is how things get set up as if the Committee and its findings become their own purpose. What kind of message is that if someone doesn't reflect the opinion of the Commission for three months that they can't be at the same time in the Council for Electronic Media and the Governing Council of the FINA. How is that possible? And nothing to anyone. Awesome message! What would also be interesting is that the Commission may be able to act on its own initiative in certain cases, not just on application. I will recall Prime Minister Milanovic's vacation with a respected entrepreneur, a Croatian entrepreneur, and that would pull a parallel with a German situation where the German president had to step down because he was financed a stay, regardless of what the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest exists and because he was not caught in a concrete conflict of interest, but he was financed and he had to step down. What worries us, of course, is that the whole 2012 has failed to launch concrete work of the commission, which is what we blame the parliamentary majority and those who make decisions, not the commission as such. And what, of course, interests us behind all of this if the commission and something does that are repercusions other than concrete wars in money and for society and for the individuals who did it? It is the real purpose of the commission's work, to punish someone so preventively and then to prevent those who make decisions from thinking about it. I believe that it is in everyone's interest and that it is our desire for all of us to make it a final coincidence of the work of the commission and of the individual cases that the commission is leading. Thank you very much, dear colleague and colleague.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62221	Thank you, too. First Josip Boric, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62222	You spoke of some examples of conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is made up only for HDZ after what we see, and so is responsibility. Responsibility applies only to HDZ. This government just doesn't know if nature laws can't determine whether there's a conflict of interest, especially not responsibility. We also hear that conflict of interest costs, 15 grand. That's the price. If you pay the fine right now, maybe 50%, if it's on the spot. Or maybe if you pay for it in 3 days, you could also introduce some kind of discount because there are no other penalties than fines, when there is no conflict of interest after a number of interventions. That's what our commission cares about.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62223	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62224	Well, my colleague, Boric, I wouldn't be as sharp as you, so that's just a little something. Imagine someone forget to sign up for a hotel in an estate card, though a little something. Or, say, a herbal drugstore that works with the parent ministry. It's really a little thing. I don't know why you're so much so I'd say and sharp in the criticism of such phenomena and you think that one fine of 10 to 15 thousand kuna in wars isn't enough to penalize such a violation. So I don't know what you're thinking, do you think that punishment was supposed to be, that someone might have been responsible for it, maybe resigning? Maybe we should discuss it further, I don't know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62225	Joseph Kregar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62226	The respected first should prevent one thing that is the result of my guess of ignorance, and this is an effort to turn the Committee for the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest into the Committee for Determining Responsibility. Responsibility is determined by voters, responsibility is determined by the bodies that have chosen someone. That is why it is necessary to really take care of the independence and opportunities of the commission. The other thing is, here it was said that the commission or penalties were only for HDZ members. But there are some examples, I don't know that Mr. Radman, that Mr. Jakovina is a member of the HDZ. I kind of don't think that's true. They are indeed members of prominent members of the ruling majority even the government. And it will always be so that the commission will take more care and punish those who are in power because they are indeed in the challenge and danger of coming into conflict of interest. The conflict of interest is an otherwise common everyday situation. But this is about the official being a dangerous thing. Thirdly, bidding with penalties doesn't really lead to anything. The penalties shall be duly measured and shall correspond to what has been the subject of the proceedings. What did not follow may have been a public reaction, but I think that the public's reaction is formalizing and formulating exactly the kind of debates that take place in the Parliament.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62227	Replication response, Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62228	The public reaction and journalists at HRT was. Even the board's reaction was. But we didn't accept it on the Media Committee. I didn't know that the Director-General of HRT was a member of the SDP, although I could make that clear under the HRT programme, but I think that's what you said to the Professor that he was a member of the SDP. And the point is, are we chasing the commission's work with responsibility for some things, and that's the point. We said we welcome the commission's processing of some items, reporting on it made us welcome. The problem is that it did not adequately result. I don't think there's enough penalty of 10, 15 thousand kuna payments. For some responsibility where someone forgot to sign you into the property card of the hotel professors, the hotel forgot to sign in. Or someone forgets someone... I don't think that's punishment enough. Of course, that responsibility was to be initiated by someone else, not by the commission. So the problem is whether we here, who voted in the Croatian House, are discussing the commission now and are adequately penalizing the rules on work that the commission establishes, does not penelarize adequately, does not penalize they do not bear adequate responsibility.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62229	Ante Babic replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62230	Thank you very much, dear Vice President. My colleague Mesic, listing those who are in conflict of interest from Mrs Zlatar Violić and Mr Radman, you forgot to actually mention Tihomir Jakovina, who is also in conflict of interest. But the Prime Minister says it's a small matter, it's a matter of fact. And the Prime Minister actually banalises the commission's decision on conflict of interest which is actually inadmissible and now you've heard that a prominent SDP member has not reported a hotel which is inadmissible.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62231	The reply to the replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62232	My colleague may not have mentioned app personam but it is quite clear who had the herbal pharmacy and did not adequately refer to this project. The fact is, with this, we're sending out the lack of adequate responsibility, sending in a bad picture. And in some ways, we're indirectly destroying the credibility of the commission. That's what I wanted in my debate to underline that might be the most important thing for the future.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62233	On behalf of the SDP representative club, colleague Josip Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62234	Dear vice presidents, colleagues and colleagues. I would not like the debate to come down to three participants or this issue is currently important to everyone. But I don't think in my presentation I'm gonna be able to get around those things that were bigger here because they give a somewhat wrong picture of the report itself. First of all, the shortness of the report is indeed the result of the unwork but not of Mrs Oreshkovic and the current members of the commission, but of the earlier composition and earlier way of treating the commission to prevent conflicts of interest. Perhaps if it had started differently, I wouldn't have reminded myself of that, but it should be reminded how the commission had arisen and what the resistance to the work of the commission existed. At first, we can say that it was also about non-compliance, when it was underestimated, but in both the left and right benches of the Assembly, it was underestimating the need to adopt such legislation. But soon after, there was a new phase. It was a stage of obstruction. Already in the first composition of the commission was emphasized its politicism and in fact its immobility, the inability to really act. At that time, there was no mention of the possibility of a resignation or the like being included in sanctions that the Commission may propose. At that moment, the committee, speaking of lawyers, discussed more about immunity, the appearance of the badge of a member of the commission. But that wasn't all, either. We later came to the idea that from the parliamentary majority, officials who were even the chairman of the commission who had been declared not party candidates. Not only did they not do anything in the commission's action but they even ended up being accused of dishonest acts in custody and investigation. That is why it has actually happened to us that we have spent several years without the real work of the commission and the newly elected members of the commission have this burden and duty to correct what has happened for many years and has been a different parliamentary majority. The major change was the fact that the start of negotiations with the EU and the very active position of the European Commission and its specialised bodies on the need for independence of depoliticisation and professionalisation of the commission. That's what we found after the election. So, the Commission's high expectations, the proposed solutions that have been implemented, which have somewhat pointed out and what will happen in the future but also the situation in which the Commission has failed to deliver results in practical action. There are now examples, there are many examples, even the chairman of the commission complains that the public and the media are not sufficiently familiar with all that they have decided. We have a situation that the commission is beginning to change its appearance, the public impression and achieves I mean quite good results. It doesn't deal with ephoenic cases. It does not deal with all government officials, primarily with those most responsible for decision-making and thus can be biased. But I think it's the commission, and that's why the start of the debate on the report just started one time. I expect that this assembly will lead not to the regulation, not to the report, but to the system solutions and also to the new legislation made with the help of the commission that will regulate all the things that the law needs to regulate not the regulation. And can't be determined by the practice of the commission's work. Which way do I think such changes will go? First of all, the commission cannot be one single single individual, perhaps a sufficient bureaucratised institution to run technical registers for itself. The commission must be significantly more active and hopefully have our support in all those cases where good practice is built, ethics in the performance of duty. The conflict of interest is not a crime but a daily situation. The conflict of interest is a situation which can be troubled by practical initiatives that something simply is not good or ethically driven and that something that has happened from a moral point of view. Isn't the moral point of view important enough? Wouldn't it be good if a higher level of morality and ethics were respected in this House? I think the commission should also be more active in offering something that would be an ethical code of conduct for public officials and the Parliament could lead it. Here it has been said several times that education on the work of the commission and on preventing conflicts of interest is a useful thing. The debate that leads here is a clear indicator in that direction. But apparently those who are supposed to go to education are not just local self-government officials, but we are. We are not even isolated from this system, however, for the highest bodies according to the Constitution of the Republic of Croatia there are the maximum restrictions and obligations in the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. The higher the power, the greater the responsibility. And that is a greater possibility and there should be a greater possibility of the commission acting. The commission did not hesitate in the previous period, nor did it touch as many people who act in the highest position in the country. They have made decisions, imposed fines which are not actually the result, should not be as something measured by the amount but by the gesture itself that someone may be in a rather dazzling procedure convicted and sentenced to fines without all those demands of legal defence powers that know criminal proceedings, these infringing ones. That's something I think you should say hello in this case because it's about responsibility. But one more step should not go forward and require that the whole system, which would then really be too much subject to the commission's adoption of an independent and free decision, is, in fact, the creation of fate and political life. Responsibility in the political system. I'd just come back here for two things. One is the fact that this report is short and that it is actually very positive in that it requires more of the commission itself to act in the future. And secondly, I feel that it is necessary to welcome, encourage, encourage the commission to continue in all of this, to expand its action as it allows them to do all those acts and actions that are for ethical condemnation and not just for legal or criminal action. That's why I think this report should be accepted and supported.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62235	Thank you. Replica Jasen Mesic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62236	Thank you very much. Dear Professor Kregar, so once again to be clear, we welcome the efforts and steps made by the commission. We don't have to hide behind that job. The responsibility of this House, or most in the Assembly, is that a year's commission was not complete, that we were waiting for the fullness of the new members so that the commission could work effectively. It is our responsibility, we do not need to hide behind the work of the commission, it is our responsibility that those who have been established by the commission have not been adequately held accountable in our opinion in conflict of interest. And they did not bear adequate responsibility in our opinion because the one who should have called them for responsibility was at the same time on the paid stay with one of the Croatian entrepreneurs, Prime Minister Milanovic. In the same case, I said the German president had to step down. Let's separate those two things. So, I welcome the work of the committee, the problem is that there are no adequate repercussions afterwards. The problem is we don't send a good message and I believe that's what you want. I do. As for the director of Croatian Radio Television, it is we, or this House, who chose him. This House also elected most of the ruling votes the Supervisory Board which established the same as the Commission on conflict of interest. And what you refused to increase most of your hands then, to withdraw more serious responsibility, or that the director of Croatian Radio Television must step down. The commission did their part of the story. We have a responsibility. That is, in the ruling majority, which did not penalise it to the end with the commission and with the Supervisory Committee. And why are we talking about this? Because you haven't put a 2011 report on the agenda in 2 years where a man could discuss it.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62237	Thank you. The answer to the replica Joseph Kregar.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62238	Dear Mr. Mesic, briefly. I'm glad we have your support in that regard. I hope that in a conflict of interest, we all have an interest in making the commission work better. But what I have to say is two things. Not that the commission hadn't worked for a year, that from the beginning it was quite clear I could say politically blocked in my work. And who is this person who is responsible or perhaps even the entire one system that blocked the commission's work is for the debate but not just the commission, but the politics as a whole. And the last thing I can say is the fact that I would like the debate to be conducted on the committee's report rather than on HRT again and again and again.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62239	On behalf of the HDSSB Club, colleague Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62240	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Presidents of the Commission, colleagues and fellow MPs. Yes, the commission was not formed, it was not in office because it happened that in the shift of power, in the elections when after 8 years the rule of one came to one another and then in that curvature, let's say, the intertwinations or the impediment of political indifference had occurred that the work of the commission had been obstructed. We can now determine... a commission on that if we want to but a assembly that has never solved anything, so neither will it. Mostly now we have a commission, we have a president, we have a full composition and we can get going, that commission can go, it can discuss cases from 2011, nothing is a problem. Here's a report from 2012 in which it is not as it says here, nothing is actually concluded because in 2012 the commission in the current composition received 15 reports of conflicts of interest, 37 requests from the officials for opinion. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The Law on the Prevention of Conflict of Interests during 2012 did not act, which is a report of nothing, reports do not actually have any trace or voice on these cases, which is 15 reports of conflict of interest and 37 requests from officials. What is mentioned in this report, I will be specific, is that during 2012 it was carried out according to an action plan which also came from the European Union's recommendations that education was carried out for local and regional self-government officials in 10 counties. I hope that education under the action plan was carried out during 2013 and in the other 9 counties and the City of Zagreb. What I am particularly interested in and what I am going to suggest to the presidents of the commission that here in 2013, at the end, we have what, 25 days by the end of the year and I expect a relatively fast report from the Commission for 2013, not in December 2014 but in the first three months of 2014, and that in that report which I hope will be much more extensive, we learn not so much, so what everyone can see on the property report, the one who serves, who is Internet-written, but also those who are not and should count on it. So to see, therefore, if there is nothing else in the municipalities, cities, counties and in the state apparatus whether there are those who were obliged to sign up their property card and did not report it out of ignorance, out of neglect or underestimation of the role and importance of the Committee for Conflict of Interest. So there are three factors that can lead to the absence of a property card application, so there is one ignorance, and there is this education, first of all, then neglect, forgotten man, had other business, or really got such an impression of the Committee of Conflict of Interest that it decided nothing anyway. So here are the cases that were also listed here by HDZ, starting with Radman, Violić, Jakovina, Milanović, but also a little vitra Sanader was also in some way a conflict of interest because it is not necessary to forget the great prime minister who spent his summers and spent fishing on another's yacht. So let's not just scold one and keep the others quiet, we should say everything, all of it. Cheap summers, etc., 7-8 kunas, we should say everything, everything. Therefore, I am interested in whether these local officials, not only officials, but also those who are directors of commercial companies in local self-government, are obliged to submit their property card, that they are obliged to deliver their card to the Commission for the conflict of interest. Maybe some don't know, some forget, and some don't feel that there are any consequences, there aren't any repercussions, and I don't care about the Committee on Conflict of Interest because they underestimated the importance of the Committee on Conflict of Interest, and according to what the commission didn't seem to say for 2-3 years, so it was kind of a struggle over the commission, the constitution of the Committee on Conflict of Interest. And for that reason, I expect from you the Honorable Mrs. Oreshkovic, the President of the Commission, that here we are in the first 3-4 months of the following year to inform us all about 2013. I am convinced that you have the data because you are both teamed up and in areas of 334 km2 exactly as it says even in decimals,36 squares in the former premises of the infamous AUDI, or in the rooms of the former AUDI. I hope that you will be much more efficient and to the Croatian public above all, not to us but to give the Croatian public that information to be leveled, not to make fun of someone, to make fun of someone, to make it clear that we need to arrange this country so that those who are obliged to submit their property card and show in it their property status to understand it as a regular annual commitment. It is something that is normal in the west, in the European Union is normal, so it can be changed, but any change is also entered in the property card over the year. So I bought the new car, sold the old one, and I had to report it to the board for a conflict of interest decision. Maybe Mrs. Oreshkovic is about it and she got a written report about it. So he says it's the right thing to do, that it's the Law on the Prevention of Conflicts of Interest and that I have to do it, and I did it. So this report, which is, is itself said by the President of the Committee that it is not extensive, that it is modest to say, given what was happening in 2012. There is no reason neither to refuse, nor to accept, and yet we will be in the hope of the Commission's effectiveness in deciding on a conflict of interest and further future work, and as here's a Christmas New Year's card to accept and vote for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62241	Thank you. Replica Srdjan Gjurkovic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62242	Vice-President of the Croatian Parliament, here is to get a colleague to his post. So, you've pointed out as to whether they are obliged to submit an property card, report to the Committee for Conflict of Interest for certain or local leaders or persons who are obliged to submit it, so this should be educated, promoted, etc. So both you and me, but all those who are obliged to report their property card or change, etc. We must be aware of our responsibilities when we are elected to a certain position that we need to know what our obligations are. And if someone runs off and pulls them by the sleeve and tells them that they have to report it, and they will or won't, it's something that's their responsibility. That's why there's also the Committee of Conflict of Interest to define, detect and indicate. You're saying it would take the first two, three months for the Committee to deliver its report to us last year so we know who's what and how. Well colleague, the Committee gives on its website an up-to-date and according to the Information Act and all information, so that absolutely everything and on the subject of the question, the opinions of certain officials who are asking questions to define whether or not something is in conflict or not or the Commission's own decisions on certain issues are on the Internet pages so that not only the report on the work of the Committee should wait, but everything they have done can be seen daily and up-to-date and that's good and that's a positive addition to this Committee's positive work that there are no secrets. Often, transparency is said, and it is essentially one public work where everything is open to everyone who is obliged to set up, who is obliged to deliver their property card, but also to get from the public how the Committee works and what their views are. And one more sentence. You mentioned 37 requests for opinions. Yeah, it's one part of an education that's extremely important, because no education is good enough. and cannot react in life as many questions and opinions [[Intruder Zgrebec: Thank you.]] certain people who give enquiries for... [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62243	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62244	My colleague Gjurkovic, therefore I hope that, or I would not want to offend anyone, but let's say the head of the Civilian municipality or I don't know which one he knows that as soon as he becomes chief, he should immediately contact the Committee for Conflict of Interest to deliver his property card. Well, come on, be realistic. Where do you even live except in Zagreb, right? Furthermore, no one doubted the openness of work and that it exists, so on the Internet you can read all about the work of the Committee for Conflict of Interest but only 7% of the citizens of the Republic of Croatia are used online. They are much more watched by the parliamentary debate, much more than by the Internet entering them on the Committee's website of conflict of interest. And why are we even discussing the Committee today, the report? Why are we discussing today when we have the Internet? Why would we be discussing this? That's the opposite question. So that the public may hear about the work of the Committee of Conflict of Interest. I don't need you and me. I know it and you know it. And here we've debated a hundred times already, not a hundred, but I've been here six, seven years advocate. I am not talking about individual cases of audit, of the State Audition, of the Commission, of individual cases of the Advocate or Advocate, of the individual, name and last name. Why don't the Committee of Decisions on the conflict of interest share the same information with us. We can do it in the initials if we have to, but let's know.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62245	Joseph Kregar, replica.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62246	Dear Mr Grubisic, I agree with most of your presentation, but at one point you stopped. In fact, you could have mentioned that the Commission has property cards, say Mr. Sanader or Mr. Vidosevic, it seems to me that these documents can be sought in the archives, not that the court has to show for weeks whether the property existed or not. If she existed to me, I've now checked that she wasn't shown in the officials' property cards.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62247	The answer to the replica Boro Grubisic.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62248	Dear colleague Kregar, this last sentence has just taken away my reply to the replica. So, what's been entered is that it was entered with an asset card, which was reported to the Committee. So there is clearly a suspicion that the property card of certain officials has not reported all that they possess. Now, it's not about the Committee or, I don't know or the thing still the judiciary doesn't, as we see in the end.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62249	And the final word of the President of the Committee of Mrs Dalia Oreshkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62250	I'll briefly say something else about the 2012 report. Although there was no commission, there was a commission office. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The law on the prevention of conflicts of interest is prescribed the obligation of state authorities to appoint within 6 months of the entry into force of that law to deliver to the Commission a list of those who are considered officials based on the fact that they were appointed by the President of the Republic, the Government of the Republic of Croatia or the Croatian Parliament. Since the law came into force in March 2011, the deadline expired in 9 months 2011. To this day neither by the Parliament in the previous meeting nor by the Croatian Parliament in this meeting the commission has received such a list. By law, I am obliged to safeguard both the independence and the impartiality of the commission, so I would not wish that certain cases on which the commission had already decided and made its decisions were detached from the context. The Commission's decision on the Radman case is also an example. I would not like to bring responsibility down to only one person because we are actually responsible to almost all of us, and the commission which could have previously warned Mr. Radman that the official and the Croatian Parliament who was able to provide the Commission with a list of persons appointed by the Croatian Parliament and considered by the officials, and also in the act of appointment, is to highlight or indicate that it is obliged to take care of the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest. This topic is considered extremely important precisely because through these cases in which we have slightly shifted the boundaries of thinking about officials and the conflict of interest we have sought to encourage public debate and give the Croatian Parliament the opportunity to consider which criteria to determine which appointments from your jurisdiction are subject to compliance with the provisions of the Law on the prevention of conflicts of interest and which cases are not. It is also important to point out that in 2013, the Commission launched two-thirds of the cases on the basis of its own knowledge, rather than on the basis of the reported conflict of interest. Through these items, we were not meant to think about what would be the result of those decisions that the commission determines. It is either on the appointment bodies or on the Croatian public. It was on the commission to consistently implement the law and that law passed by the Croatian Parliament. Of course, a large number of cases will point to what provisions of the law should be amended and what should be better regulated in a procedural sense. The fact is, and you can see it from all the decisions published on the website, that not once the commission established at the declarative level the existence of a situation of conflict of interest but was talking about violating the provisions of the law. And for the violation of the provisions of the law, sanctions were imposed in that range as prescribed by the Croatian Parliament. There's one more thing I have to say, it's not all that made the commission available on the website. After the local elections, we received over 2500 new property reports. It has been shown, and this concerns some of those who sit in these benches and act as representatives in the Croatian Parliament, to fill out the property report and it is not that simple. It has been established that a large number of officials have not submitted a report for both of the duties they are acting, such as a local duty and the duties of a parliamentary representative, and there is always one card missing. Over a few hundred officials have not submitted a report at all either to begin or to end the term of office. Of those who have endured over 700 of these 2500 newly received, it has not been formally met properly. The Commission has reached over 700 administrative conclusions, which are detailed and reasoned, which represent one administrative act, which actually tells officials what to indicate under the data, e.g. credit line. Who's a believer, how to define a commitment and things like that. Therefore, education needs exist. What it says in the 2012 Report that the commission carried out education, i.e. the education of officials at all levels, is the fact that no education of officials acting as representatives in the Croatian Parliament has been carried out, nor have members of the government. This is the opportunity to call on such an education or at least to announce it. I hope that this will not be taken as a statement or as an interpretation of the legislator, which is actually written in the law, rather than as an opportunity for dialogue to draw attention to us as a committee in that legal and technical sense, which in this law needs to be defined differently and to launch a broad public debate, which is what we expect from the regulation of the matter of conflict of interest.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62251	I'm closing the debate. Now we're going to move on, thank you, you're free to go.
ParlaMint-HR_2013-12-06-0.u62252	Report on the work of the Committee on Conflict of Interests for 2012. The debate is closed. I am voting on the following conclusion: - A report by the Committee for the Decision on the conflict of interest for 2012 Please enter into force. Who's in? Thank you. Who's against it? Is there someone restrained? I'm asking for a result. I find that most votes, 98 votes in favour and 1 abstentions have reached the proposed conclusion.
