ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held in a traditional manner and with the use of means of distance communication. And there was a problem with that, because there was a pretty big accident on Cisco's level. But I have a signal that it's already fixed. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. And now, if we can, we will proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. I'm asking you to give me any vote. It's gone. Good. Please report the results. 71 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the findings made by the Senacki Group on matters of GETBACK SA. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. It is included in print No 721, and the committee's report in print No 721S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to present a joint report of the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! As rapporteur for the Joint Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Legislative Committee, I would like to present to you a proposal for a resolution which refers to the findings made by the GetBack Group. Such a team operates and for six months the subject of its activities were issues related to shortcomings related to the GetBack affair. I will talk about the part related to the elements that are the conclusions of the team's activities, and the financial situation, and I will speak in the debate, and here I would like to focus only on the draft resolution. The draft resolution was discussed by these committees. Representatives of the democratic majority voted in favour of this resolution, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Senators voted against the draft resolution. [[Voice from the room: Also democratically elected.]] [[Voice from the room:... Ladies and gentlemen...]] Since you're asking... the democratic word doesn't refer to how you choose, it refers to how you operate. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like to tell you that hinting at this situation is at least rude. Well, knowing you, I know it's your way of life, so I accept it. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please, Mr. Marshal... [[Please step through ad rem.]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the draft of this resolution has four main paragraphs. First of all, what is an undisputed element, namely that the GetBack scandal in Poland occurred and 10,000 people were told that between 9 and 10,000 people were wronged in this affair for the amount of PLN 2.5 to 3 billion. They say it's still an incomplete amount, but it's about what the NIK report is about. Because I would like to say that the main element of both the team's work and the conclusions that are set out in this resolution is the NIK report plus the team's deliberations, plus meetings with all the institutions that are mentioned in the NIK report and which have a statutory obligation to take care of the financial market, and with associations of victims. And in this resolution, ladies and gentlemen, apart from the fact that such an event concerning the affair of GetBack has taken place, we find that today... Actually it also includes the report of the NIK. We find that the activities of the institutions that are responsible for protecting the market, as well as the pursuit of people who are involved in the GetBack affair, are insufficient. Although the prosecutor, as we write in the resolution, takes some action, but in our view, he does not take action against those who were the creators of this pyramid, only those who have achieved certain goals. I just want to remind you that the scandal broke out in early 2018, which is more than four years ago, and actually there is still a process going on in relation to the people who performed the whole thing. At the same time, we state in the resolution that entities such as KNF, the Ministry of Finance, the government and its institutions have not acted sufficiently to protect investors, particularly unprofessional, in the financial market. We say this on the basis of meetings, talks, statements by the heads of these institutions, and in particular on the basis of what is the foundation of our work, the report of the NIK. An important point, ladies and gentlemen, is not only that we claim that the element of history is important. It is an element that builds our conduct and this resolution. But also that the team, in cooperation with Prof. Szczęśniak, professor of Maria Curie-Skłodowska University in Lublin, proposed a number of proposals concerning legislative changes, which in our opinion are expected to protect non-professional investors in the financial market in the future. This is very complicated matter, which is why we are directly addressing the Prime Minister here: Prime Minister, let us sit down and develop a statutory element which will provide the possibility of more professional protection of the financial market in Poland. I will also talk about the functioning of institutions for this type of event in other countries. I would like to say right away that Poland is not the only country in Europe and in the world where such situations occur, and unfortunately, I have to say this, they can happen. I'll tell you what the expert told us. Today on the list of institutions that are high risk institutions in the financial market in Poland... According to KNF these institutions are today 500, ladies and gentlemen. This shows that this is a very serious security element in the financial market That is why we are talking about the fact that the legal element is very important. I also want to tell you that when we compare other countries... Especially characteristic was one of the largest pyramids in the world, namely the pyramid built by Madoff in the United States. From $20 to $40 billion That was the scale of this pyramid. But what's characteristic? The creators of this pyramid The developers were convicted within 7.5 months. That's one thing. Secondly, within 10 years, those who invested, i.e. non-professional investors in the financial market, recovered 70% Your resources. They got it back because you showed determination. What's characteristic is... this kind of thing is gonna happen, it can happen, so our proposal is to protect ourselves from it as much as possible. But it is also important how the state works, and that is why we are talking about drawing conclusions on the functioning of the various institutions. Here we are setting an example of a prosecutor's office who has never once responded to the invitation of both the rule of law committee and our team. No one showed up. This is a constitutional cooperation with the Senate bodies. These different connections... And the lack of effectiveness of the prosecution's actions is linked to our conclusion. Namely, we ask the Polish Parliament to set up a committee of inquiry which will explain all kinds of irregularities and links concerning this one of the biggest scandals in Poland. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]] Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you to accept the resolution by voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u3	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Leszek Czarnobaj to represent them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Brejza. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u4	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, GetBack is a huge financial scandal, many billion zlotys have been lost. And I have a question for you. GetBack didn't come out of nowhere and GetBack wasn't in a vacuum because GetBack financed at least a lot of events. Did you notice that GetBack was e.g. Sponsor of the Free Word Zone... Excuse me, the Free Word Zone Gala in February 2017 together with companies of the State Treasury such as Orlen, PGNiG, KGHM, PKO BP? GetBack was the sponsor of this party, and this party was attended by no one other than Mr. Attorney General Zbigniew Ziobro himself. And I have one more question. Have you noted that since 2008 there has been an agreement between the Internal Security Agency and the KNF regarding the transmission of information to the Financial Supervision Commission about irregularities in the financial market? Have you noted the inactivity of the NSA, not only of the prosecution, but also of the Internal Security Agency, which should transmit such signals to the NSA and which failed to implement this agreement?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u5	Mr. Senator, time... Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u6	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Senator! I'd like to say something right away that I should actually start with. Why are we asking for a committee of inquiry? Because the committee... I apologize to the team, but also, as it turned out, the rule of law committee, for some people in the country today, have too weak a power to come to the meeting and answer a few questions, including. The ones you're talking about, the senator. Three invitations to the D.A. Not me, not the corn. In this respect, we have recognised that information from such institutions as above all the Supreme Audit Chamber on which we worked will be part of our work, plus meetings with representatives of the Supreme Audit Chamber, plus meetings with all financial market institutions. That's why we thought inviting the D.A. without a prosecutor was completely pointless. Therefore, our proposal for a committee of inquiry, which will be able to identify such cases in detail. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say that we have written 74 questions to the KNF. The KNF representative was, always was, and he wasn't at the team meeting, but we had to do a little myk, namely we invited him to the budget and finance committee meeting with the team. In any case, more than 70 questions have been sent. And I'd like to tell you, particularly by answering you, Senator, why didn't we invite the Homeland Security Department to answer these questions? And I have them here, you can get to know them, they're public, they're divided into 3 groups. The first is such an answer that whatever we ask, it's a game. The second group, which is the next 30%, is a type of response: we apologize very much, we can't answer, it's a mystery. And the third group is the answers: well, it was nice, we didn't know it was. And this again shows that only a committee of inquiry can indicate this kind of connection. We went in particular to answer the question of how to go with the drafts of new laws that we would like to do together with representatives of the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Justice to create a law that would be more friendly and set up a committee of inquiry to resolve these doubts. And now what's going on with getting back's sponsorship. When we asked how people invested their money, I will not talk about misselling, a very aggressive policy of representatives of GetBack, as well as banks, because 7 banks in Poland dealt with the distribution of GetBack bonds. They said this: we felt it was a very safe investment. Because if the representatives of the authorities are what you are asking the senator about, they are present in joint prize-giving projects, since the Stock Exchange in 2017 grants GetBack a prize when the authorities are photographing with representatives of GetBack and GetBack sponsoring these projects, since the bank's representative says it is a very safe investment, because it is the protection of KNF, the protection of the state, government-political protection... Therefore, people have gained total confidence in the Polish state. It was a very decisive element. I have here a letter from a lady who describes it exactly like that, that she felt it so, that she had never seen such a safe and good investment in her life. And these elements that the senator was talking about confirm that even after the outbreak of the scandal, looking for reasons and solutions for the future was not for power... Today I think it's a saying: well, it happened, but the state couldn't do anything. I was gonna say it in the debate, but I'm gonna say it now. The Americans call it a loser state. It's about a country that's so powerless, it's being robbed by creators of all kinds of scams like a loser. And what you read in the NIK report and what you listen to from the victims shows that we've shown ourselves here... I'm not talking about who was in charge at the time, who was doing this, but we turned out to be a country that completely didn't respond, didn't fulfill its statutory duties. I'm not gonna go any further. We have a proposal to try to seal this system.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u7	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u8	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I've had the opportunity... Because I have the right, as a senator, to attend this kind of committee from time to time. I was so lucky or so unfortunate that I was at a committee meeting when President Banas presented this terrible report to NIK. My question... I've been thinking long enough how to do this so that this NIK report can be made public across the country so that it can be available even in high school, because from this report NIK, Mr. Senator, it shows how power shouldn't behave when people are being robbed. I simply mean whether this report is only for elected parliamentarians, whether it can be made available, in certain parts, to society as a whole. And my second question. From this report it is clear that at the time of stealing from these people, the current crew participated... My question is simple. Did you ever wonder at the committee meeting that since you failed, since this tragicly injured gray citizen... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time...]] And the estimates are... I'm almost done. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Time.]] Respect for the victims is very high. Have you considered what form of return at least some of these poor people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u9	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, as far as publicity is concerned, yes, the report is public. But I know he's so extensive... [[It's not public.]] His audience is that he's on the side of the Supreme Auditorium. You can only enter, click NIK report on GetBack and is already available. Nevertheless, as I understand it, the senator is talking about how much more... [[Yes.]] ...publicize. Because he's available if anyone's looking for him. But, ladies and gentlemen, we know that everyone will look for other things, and in the end they will look for this report. If he does not need, if he is not a victim or a person who operates within the framework of the state, he will not necessarily follow this report. That's one thing. Secondly, the report is long and very extensive, relating to many aspects. And here's what I'm gonna say. We talked to a financial spokesman, who, among others, has entered a new education task. And we talked... [[That's what I'm talking about.]] ...with an ombudsman to make the most of the financial market education and to give an academic example of what NIK has written about the role of the state and how you have fulfilled this role. And that's what we'd like to do. Further ideas, solutions for even greater education here we do not propose, because... I believe that financial and economic education should be one of the priorities of high school education. This is something we should all accept. There's no... Or maybe not: today, one of the foundations of good education is the ability to move, among others. in the financial market. And as far as returns are concerned, Mr. Senator, I want to say yes. We have proposed three elements here in terms of helping the victims. First of all, we refer to history and... This is our proposal in terms of assumptions. If the representatives of the Ministry and the Government do not wish to participate with us in this work... Mr Kwiatkowski and I have a schedule of actions and work related to these laws and we will implement it by proposing concrete solutions. And these solutions relating to the victims go in the following directions. 2 proposals relate to history, because you can't build something without referring to history. I'm gonna say right here, right now, so I don't have much hope. This is not possible because, above all, the law prohibits it from taking money from the budget and transferring the 2.5 billion zlotys or 3 billion zlotys to the victims. There are no legal possibilities. But that's what we're proposing. The Ministry of Finance, the representatives of the government today say: after all, you can go to court and ask for your own. Well, if anyone's interested, I'll tell you what it looks like in court today, like... [[Voice from the room: The same are...]] That's a completely different question. And now I am. We propose, first of all... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, I apologize, but please do not disturb the rapporteur's senator. You can always ask a question. Thank you very much. There you go.]] First of all, we propose that the financial spokesman be given the opportunity There isn't any today. In such situations, there are so-called cases. It's a collective dispute. This will allow you to extend all deadlines, there will be no need for these people to bear costs, etc. I mean, not all of these 9,000 people can afford it, some of them can't afford it for all kinds of reasons... Well, it's a matter of paying a lawyer, etc. This is the real state aid that is now missing. We propose that the financial spokesman should be able to act on such matters. This is one element. Secondly, we are talking about the fact that if someone is in court alone, it is the court to which the person is present, it was the court closer to the citizen, so that there are lower amounts of court fees, etc. That's the help. We also propose that those who have been wronged, and are in a very difficult situation, be able to fund, and such funds exist... There's a fund for helping the victims. We think they're the kind of people we want, and we want them to be part of this fund. They are in a difficult situation, and for such people this fund is. Do you remember what President Banas said, what was financed from this fund, what projects? This is a fund that should serve vulnerable people. That's where we start so that this fund can help them, and that requires legal change. Thirdly, we want the victims to be able to receive financial support consisting of tax relief. And here for discussion... We have written in our suggestions that it could be 20,000 or 20,000 euros, but this is a matter for discussion. And these are the elements that are proposed today. And a proposal for the future, Mr. Senator, when it comes to the victims, to create a special fund. We've got the Bank Guarantee Fund or the brokerage houses. The idea would be to create a similar fund, so that if Don't give me that. This would happen, this would be the fund. This is suggested by the Union, EU legislation In such situations it is appropriate to act preventively before, i.e. to set up a fund that could then help such people. These are the elements of the aid we anticipate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u11	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u12	Mr President, you've been through dozens of meetings, interviews with the victims, with the victims in the event of GetBack. As the Supreme Audit Chamber stated in its report, this would not have been the case on such a scale if there had not been no action, if not for omissions, including the authorities of the state, such as the Financial Supervision Commission or the Ministry of Finance. And my question is: in the context of those nearly 10,000 people who bought these papers, often feeling that they were buying the papers, they were so informed about the same level of security. Like Treasury bonds... These people you've been seeing, I mean the victims, the victims in this affair, in this financial pyramid, did they say that today they see such efforts to give them as much money as they can quickly and efficiently? Did the Polish State say, e.g. Madoff's case has tried to show that, in this difficult situation, those who are injured in this case should come as soon as possible with real financial assistance?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u13	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u14	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! In short... I'm gonna say what I heard at the meetings, I'm gonna talk about the relationships of people who are being wronged and making claims. They do not see the favor of state authorities, even the opposite. I'll give you a little example. Namely, Idea Bank in the framework of the restructuring was taken over by Pekao. What's been taken over? All the best assets, all the bad things left in the bank in liquidation. And these people are performing now... It's a court thing, 'cause somebody here was talking about courts. Thus, the Bank Guarantee Fund applies to the courts for the suspension of all types of claims which are injured, claims against Idea Bank, due to the ongoing takeover proceedings. Therefore, the victims were left to themselves, in a nutshell. There's no... I'm not talking about dealing with the case, I'm talking about the favor of the state, about getting to the obvious truth, about how much money you've earned. Now, one word that came out here... It's about wealth. That's what's characteristic of Madoff's scandal. We're proposing to take advantage of both American and American experiences. I don't know if the senator remembers what Professor Szczęśniak said about the German experience. Because a similar incident was also in the German system, but there were quickly lessons learned and in many situations further escalation of the problem was prevented. Namely, we're talking about a system that secures the assets that are in this criminal or suspicious company. Well, the assets that may be used to repay subsequent claims are secured. Please note that today's proceedings are pending... What's left after, let's assume, X company, what's left to split at the end, that's gonna be pennies. Realia is, ladies and gentlemen, that in Poland it is regained as much as possible... If someone has invested in good faith and is convinced that the state is working properly, they will recover 5 what he lost. In the U.S. system, this is 30%. And in Madoff's case, this man who's running the whole case with the D.A. says it's gonna be about 90%. That's what these people will get back. That is why this system, which we are proposing, concerns rapid action by the State in such matters. No, among others. They're talking about securing assets here. Unfortunately, I have to say that these people have no sense that the state is on their side.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u15	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask Senator Jerzy Wcisla's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u16	Mr. Senator, we all know what legal framework the GetBack scandal broke out in. We know that this affair was basically within the framework of functioning law. It's been over four years since the incident was detected. Please say: did the Polish state draw any conclusions from this and so changed the law or the functioning of the institution so that such an issue could not be repeated? Do you think that such an issue would be possible under the current law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u17	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! One of the elements of all this. I am talking about the direction in which legislative changes should take place, the NIK report containing proposals. I must say objectively that some of them have been implemented, but this was not important in our assessment, especially in my opinion, but also in the assessment of the people who advised us, also of Professor Szczęczyk. The changes proposed in the legislation are insufficient to prevent the exact same incident today. It simply lacks instruments that would effectively combat the same scandal as the effects of the scandal. And we in our study are saying what changes to the law should be made. I'm really surprised... I am not a lawyer, but by asking simple questions, at a team meeting with our advisors, and especially your professor, we quickly came to the conclusion which elements should be applied, and using the NIK report, conclusions, our doubts plus the experience of many people, we built in our opinion a much better system that would prevent a similar incident in the future. This is the first case. Two. I would like to say that when we talked to the representatives of all these institutions that are mentioned, I will tell you about my personal impression. They all said unambiguously: we did as it is written in the law, we did not defy anything. The only problem is, if the law is that it has that effect... So what do we do? First of all, change the law and instruments. We asked, "What are you missing? Both. What if it was like this? Oh, that's not how we'd act. And I would like to say that especially KNF has made many organisational changes. Please note that when the value of the company's assets increased tenfold in the last two years, no one asked themselves why it was so, they were still given a reward. And we asked, did you verify that? Oh, no. And that's in the report, too. We therefore place enormous emphasis on what concerns the effective functioning of the financial market, above all, and the taking of responsibility. Here we also propose what has happened in many countries: increasing penalties for deliberate or unintentional manslaughter of this kind, from managers to audit firms, etc. Audit firms and auditors also played a huge role here. This is a country that has absolutely no instruments. And once again, what the professor said at our meeting: today, there are 500 such institutions in Poland on the list of companies or institutions that may be suspicious in terms of activity. This is unimaginable. And they can use what's called the creation of a financial pyramid again today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u18	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u19	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Senator, I am interested in the issue of the effectiveness of this resolution, or actually the purpose of submitting it to the High House and its effectiveness. [[The target is obvious.]] It was signed under the text of this resolution by 16 people. The team has no legislative initiative, but these 16 people, 16 senators have. Why didn't you come up with a legislative initiative, with a proposal for concrete changes to the law to which you were convincing us here, presumably right, so that we could just start this process and not, like the Greek choir, repeat, go, go and stand in place? It is precisely about whether we give only false hopes to these people or whether we really want to deal with it. That's the first line. And the second point, too. You appear in the text of this resolution with an application to the Sejm It is a specific design, the Senate applies to the Sejm For the establishment of a committee of inquiry. Well, under this resolution are signed persons from the same political group and this group is represented in sufficient composition in the Sejm. And I guess it's just that this group has asked for a committee of inquiry and she hasn't been set up in the Sejm. Then why are you talking about the same thing again? To speak, to fill the paper, or to have an effect? So one more time: why not a legislative initiative, you just want it on your behalf 'Cause with someone else's hands it's best that the Prime Minister did or did the Prime Minister help you? After all, we have often done legislative initiatives in parallel with the government here in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! To answer the first question, why initiative, once again I would like to draw attention, because maybe it did not exactly sound in my mouth, that it is a very, very complicated matter, combining many instruments, many laws, etc. And what I'm saying is that in the finals, we're gonna take the initiative. Why not now? Because it's not a simple bill. We'd like to invite the government and say, let's do it together. And I reported it to Minister Patkowski, the Minister didn't say no, but then there was silence. Mr. Senator, we're gonna do this. I already have a schedule, which laws are the first, which as the second, which as the third And we will draw up these laws as much as our advisors, the people working with the committee, are already talking about the Legislative Commission... We're gonna offer that kind of stuff. We start with the simplest, easier, and at the end we'll offer the longer ones. Why are we talking about it being better if it's done with the government? Well, really, the instrument on the capacity of the government is much higher than ours, definitely higher. We want to do this together, and that is why we are addressing the Prime Minister: please, we will be happy to join or you will delegate us, we will do it. That's how we want to do it, Senator. If, on the other hand, I'm gonna say it again. There won't be a response, and I suspect he might not be, so we'll be... We're already working, he's already prepared, Mr. Senator, the schedule of the bills, the first ones have already been written. I say again: this is a situation that can affect any one of us, any one of us, and if not one of us present here, then one of our families, friends, etc. And that's very complicated matter. Hence the reversal... maybe not the reversal, just the proposal, which I just said. As far as the committee of inquiry is concerned... I don't know if there was a request for her calling. I'm sorry, I didn't check, but since you're saying he was, I suspect he was, but he was probably rejected. I think that today we have a lot of new arguments to confirm the rightness of setting up such a committee. In short, the case does not go completely forward with regard to prosecutorial proceedings, nor with regard to the search for creators of this pyramid, nor with regard to legal proposals for market protection. Therefore, I believe that those who can question thoroughly and get an answer under threat of false testimony... It's about a completely different... I believe that discretion dictates that in the name of the future of Poland such a commission should be established. Therefore, it is customary, as you might call it, a proposal in which we kindly ask the Sejm to set up a committee. I don't think that's the kind of request we're gonna miss as the Senate or... [[I didn't say that.]] No, no, I'll answer right away. Nor do we fail the Sejm to make such a request. Well, we just think that we have so many things that we need to solve for decency, that we should do it. I will also say this: the person who requested the control of NIK was Prime Minister Morawiecki. Yeah, but the report... But wait, the report was written, and what did it do? The report is, and there is no action. Mr. Senator, that's the point. And that's why we want to go one step further. Let's write it, let's write it. It would be best if it were a law, say, a government with our share, but if not, we will take this path: do yours, we will do ours, and we will meet later somewhere and you will get it. But we want... to offer first. Minister Patkowski did not say yes or no. Let's see what happens next.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u21	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u22	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask the senator if you could introduce him again... Since our discussion today may be of some interest, could you place the issue of GetBack in the midst of other public affairs? I ask about the media response, because I suspect that part of the public thinks that the biggest scandal in Poland was the Amber Gold scandal, because all the time there was this scandal in public media, raised by dependent media or government-related media, and all the time this scandal was the biggest scandal. With this scandal they tried to discredit opposition politicians and it took a very long time, or actually lasts until today. However, there is little we can learn about this incident from the public media. Well, maybe I'll just go ahead and remind you of the facts that happened. government interference in informing at all about this incident. It was a famous situation of influence that came out in Dworczyk's e-mails. It's called "Give us a clever journalist to write about it the way we expect it." And also the question of the Prime Minister's father's involvement in lobbying or... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, time, time for questioning.]] Yes. So I would like to ask you to place it among other Polish scandals during, say, the last 15 years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u23	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I'll start with the Amber Gold scandal. I, being president, also asked for a report. I think it's Senator Brejza. - Yeah? - Mm-hmm. He was actively involved in the work of the committee of inquiry, which dealt with Amber Gold's case. It was the first thing on a scale like this. And there was 900 million, and there's a minimum of 2.5 billion, and it's said... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Oh, yeah, yeah. But I'm talking about what was in the media. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'd like to finish. The media said 850 million or 900 million, and the last report said 550 or 560. There is no doubt that we are talking here about 2.5 billion, and as the victims show, it will be whether there is more. And by some strange coincidence, just like the other thing was so loud, so it's quieted down. We as a team did not deal with the promotion, calling it an issue, because our goal, as it was written, is to answer a few questions and make proposals, what's next. If we're talking about the fact that from the state budget we've added PLN 4 billion to the SKOKs, if I remember correctly... Someone might say, it wasn't a big deal, it's just the SKOKs fell and it had to be adjusted. I saw such a cool icon, which someone did, showing the 3 biggest events in Poland: Amber Gold, 560 million, GetBack, 3 billion, SKOK-i, over 4 billion. And here's the thing. The conclusions on this first case we're talking about, Amber Gold, show, as I recall, the prosecution's office, the courts' experts and the tax chambers. These were the institutions that, to put it mildly, made most of the mess at the time. KNF was very active there plus other institutions, but these, in short, failed. And it should be a lesson for Poland and for Polish governments that such things will repeat in Poland if we do not introduce effective law, which will try to prevent something and then fight it effectively. And we're showing what needs to be introduced here. This is probably not a complete set of tasks to be done. But see what has been introduced since 2015, what element would protect Poles from the scandal. Nothing. But a huge element of propaganda was introduced. That it was an outrage, and here people simply invested badly; that there people were robbed, and here they wanted to have a little more, but it didn't work. Well, that's what propaganda sounds like, and that's how I put it. But that's my opinion. If they were pulled out... I've been trying to read the entire report of the committee of inquiry. He focuses on people, 26 or 29 people targeted at the prosecutor, he doesn't focus on legislative proposals, he focuses on catching the guilty. This is the media and legal location. And we have one more answer to Senator Czerwinski. This proposal: I think it is enough of these scandals, let's sit down and propose what concerns legislation, but also the effectiveness of the state authorities. ♪ Somewhere else ♪ ♪ Somewhere else ♪ Once again, I return to Madoff, namely that the state, the Liquidator or the Prosecutor act so effectively and have legal tools, but also personal tools, which are charismatic when it comes to chasing those who commit or make a case. And that's where no one makes propaganda out of it. That's where propaganda is made, how to catch those who cheat, no matter what group they're made of. And that's how I put it in the media and legal sense.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u24	Thank you very much. Senator Michael Sewerinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u25	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr. Senator, on what basis will the appointment of the Senate's committee of inquiry be based, with the powers of investigators such as. Calling witnesses and questioning witnesses? The concept of investigative activities includes such elements. Well, without interrogating, it's hard to determine things. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'm answering. We absolutely do not ask for the Senate's committee of inquiry, because we do not have such legal opportunities, unless we change what concerns the powers of the Senate. We ask the Sejm of the Republic of Poland that, in view of what the conclusions are in the Supreme Chamber of Control and what our conclusions are, it benevolently bowed down again and such a committee was set up in the Sejm, not in the Senate, Professor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u27	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Piecha's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u28	Senator rapporteur, I found this report NIK. He's available on websites, there's no confidential information here, I didn't hack into servers. It has 172 pages, it is very extensive. You could cut it down a little bit and write it in such an approachable language... [[In English.]] ...for a normal human being. I'd like to ask you about a case like this. The report came out. There must also be replies from the relevant state bodies to which the NIK report was addressed, i.e. the Ministry of Finance or KNF. What are the conclusions? Because they're jumping to conclusions, too. As far as I know, in Poland there were already 14 such scandals, such as those that caused losses to investors. And it's been 30 years, and we still haven't worked out some kind of protection against this kind of action.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u29	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'll start from the end, from the security issue, from what you said the senator was talking about. We're just saying that actually pretty much all kinds of scandals. In particular, these 3 issues show that the institutions of the state should be subject to a slight review as regards legislation. I'm not talking about personalities here, I'm talking about legislation. I would like to say, Senator, that one of the elements of EU law-making In some EU countries, this is already happening. coordinated supervision of the financial market. He is very distracted in Poland today. We propose here such a general solution plus assumptions to the bill as to how to do it. You're right that it's been 30 years, and we're actually stuck in legislation that was good in 1989 or 1990. [[Voice from the hall: It was not good then.]] Maybe it was good for those years. But in any case, after these experiences not only Polish, but also European and global time to answer whether the Polish legislation meets these requirements. And those questions had to be answered, Mr. Senator, after Amber Gold. That was the moment. But if you have followed up on our report, you know that even the introduction of EU law on the financial market by the Government of Law and Justice has been very late in the hottest period of time. In the report of NIK, both in our report and in the report of NIK it is. It shows that we're a little... well, right now the government doesn't care what the other control bodies report, as others suggest, etc. Did they react? Mr. Senator, let me put it this way... I've told you this before, but maybe now I'll take a little bit off the other side. Well, some suggestions, or actually I can estimate, that within the range of 20-30% those suggestions that were made by NIK You are here from NIK, so you may be able to respond in more detail to it, have been implemented by the controlled institutions. KNF has implemented some solutions. But she did, and what? It has increased the number of people who are dealing with the market to analyse what is relevant to the financial situation, i.e. rapidly increasing revenues, declines in profitability, such issues. The representatives of the Stock Exchange say: we will pay more attention to the issue. But we are showing that what has been implemented is completely inadequate. Not to point out the power that he doesn't do anything, Senator, it's simply what the situation requires. As I have already said, today there are 500 players on the market who may have a similar effect and similar problems in a moment's time. And we say, we have an idea and we suggest what to do. As far as all the elements that were the subject of the NIK report and recommendations are concerned, as I said, some of them were implemented, as far as the parts were concerned, said they were not. And here's the impression, Mr. Senator, that there's a conversation going on about who's right and the case is. The case lies because Poland In the sense of the financial market, it is not really prepared to fight the scandals. Others do. We serve where they do it, how they do it. We don't invent a wheel here, we just take advantage of the experience. The professor showed us how they did it in Germany, how they did it in the United States, how it was used in Belgium or Holland. And we, looking at what they're doing, ask ourselves how the Polish market should work, and we propose these solutions. NIK report itself, 100% implementation These recommendations will not solve all the problems because NIK refers to the control of the individual, and the question that, so to speak, coordinated financial market control requires completely different laws.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u31	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u32	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have two questions, Mr. Chairman. Did the committee analyze how the assets of these thieves were secured because there were different estimates? I'm asking because I understand that this wealth that the state should secure will at least be part of the repayment to these unfortunate people. What level is that? That's one thing. And second question. I know that there was a whistle-blower at your committee meeting, a whistle-blower who wrote to all those responsible in this country for the law and the rule of law, and, to my knowledge, he also wrote to the board of directors of the stock exchange, which at that time, or after the action of this whistleblower, to thieves. My question is, did this whistle-blower, while you were at the committee meeting, personally confirm what he wrote?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u33	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, first things first. We do not have the authority to make a clear demand: please state what property it is. But we went to your prosecutor and asked him what was the amount of assets that had been secured. We haven't received a binding answer. We invited your D.A. to a personal meeting, but he didn't come. We didn't want to ask you how you investigate who's guilty, just about this sort of thing. And we... Well, that's what everyone's asking. I also want to say that I went to the IRS to give us a list of how much taxes were paid by GetBack during that period. We've been discussing that since so many taxes have been paid out of people's money... Because the pyramid is that the contributors finance the next and the next moves. We received an answer that it was confidential, which means we didn't get an answer either. This clearly shows that there should be a committee that will answer questions about what assets, etc., etc., etc., what taxes... We didn't have access to that kind of information when we went to the authorities of the state. As far as the beacon is concerned, yes, I confirm, the signaler was, he was reporting, we asked questions, he confirmed that, as far as I remember, the first signals were already in February. This is also in the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, that especially for the first 7 or 8 months of this signaler's signals were completely ignored. Only when there were 65 similar conclusions... well, not similar ones, but indicating that there was a problem, then KNF initiated proceedings. So that too late was any reaction.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u34	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u35	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask if Law and Justice have anything to do with this case. Does the government have anything to do with this case? Do the politicians in charge have anything to do with this affair? I ask you this because you have used these phrases several times, which are generally understood by the fact that you have received an "tomato" response, a "confidential" response. Well, in any case, it appears from your statements that the institutions of the Polish state, the representatives of the government and central offices, the chief public administration did not cooperate with you, did not help. How do I explain this? Well, it's the institutions of the Polish state... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] ...should depend on helping you and supporting you in clearing this up. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u36	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u37	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Mr. Senator, this is the perfect model. Namely, when there is a problem, then Whoever sets up such a team or committee, the government stands up with an open hatcher says: "Yes, we will cooperate, about everything you want, ask, and we will answer. And we promise you that the best conclusions, if we come to an agreement, will be promoted in the framework of a political discussion before the Polish Parliament. Well, it's a perfect model. I am sorry to say that he does not appear in Poland. I do not have parliamentary experience gained in other countries, but in Poland it does not exist at all. The current authority pretends nothing happened, and when we ask something, it says "tomato" or something, so that we don't get into the details anymore. [[Voice from the room: How do I explain this?]] Well, how do I explain it... I don't know, I didn't ask, but this is what I imagined. If I, Mr. Senator, feel guilty about something... That's what I'd do. If I felt guilty about something and someone asked me, I'd say you took the apple instead of me. So this is the method: well, you're asking me something, but I had nothing to do with it, so what do you mean? I had nothing to do with it, the guy came in, paid the money at the bank, and they stole it, so what? Am I to blame for this? Well, that's how I feel about it. But how do you explain it... Well, I can only make a political point here, but I'm not doing it right now. One more thing that concerns us here as Senate. I personally worked very hard with the president of the PiS club so that the representatives of the PiS senators could participate in the work of this team. Mr President was even at his first meeting, but then he said he wouldn't come. Well, I can't understand that anymore. [[Voice from the room: There was no directive.]] I can't understand it. After all, if you were at the meeting, it is not enough that you could ask, you could still report completely different things, just work and say what needs to be done in the Republic of Poland so that such situations do not happen. And that's what I can't understand anymore. Because the fact that the current executives are pretending nothing happened... Well, that's because they're responsible for the functioning of state institutions, and they've completely failed. So what are they supposed to say? Sorry, did we do the wrong thing? So they pretend it didn't happen. And here's what Senator Zdrojewska asked, that the right press is on the side... [[Voice from the room: On the side...]] No, no, no, I'm not signing it. ...managers, it looks like the senator diagnosed it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u38	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u39	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Follow-up to previous questions It will also be new, but we need to finish this topic I'm talking about a committee of inquiry in the Sejm. You said that from the moment she wasn't called up, when the Sejm refused to allow it. And it's been about 2 years, as I remember, there may have been new circumstances. And they probably did. But I ask all the time. Okay, let's get this straight. Why your party colleagues or persons belonging to the same group, who are so sensitive about this affair, have not re-applyed if new circumstances have occurred. It's no problem, that conclusion can be repeated. I'm talking about the Seym. Why didn't Members of the Civic Platform make this request in the Sejm? And question two, related to the previous question. Namely, you said that there is already a timetable for what will be proposed as the first legislative acts in the form of a legislative initiative. Could you quote the titles of these acts? Because if there's a schedule, we know what we're gonna change.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u40	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The first question is simple. Mr. Senator, I haven't spoken to the Members, I'll be honest with you, and I don't know why they haven't applied twice. Maybe they were just assuming that it wasn't gonna be passed anyway. [[The voice from the room: Then why...]] And I'm gonna say this right now. We as senators believe what we have the right to do, Mr. Senator, I'm talking about our argument here, without political discussion, because we didn't do it about GetBack... those who worked in the team... We have collided with the wall so many times, and so many questions have not been answered, that we have come to the conclusion that this committee is needed. Mr. Senator. If you don't get an answer to a bunch of questions about details, then what? Well, you might feel a little mistreated. Therefore, we repeat the proposal and say: listen, this matter needs to be... That was our motivation. And why didn't the Members submit it? I'm sorry, I don't know. We're bringing it up again because of what I said. As far as the timing and all of this is concerned, I'm going to say... I'm not gonna read everything because your marshal keeps looking at me for too long, so I'm gonna say, Mr. Senator, yes. Starting with the KNF, strengthening the role of the KNF with its final decisions, on matters relating to the future, related to the aid fund for people who invest in such a project and could happen to them, because it could happen... The point is that there is a financial element that is being mobilised at a time like the Bank Guarantee Fund. Where he's gonna be located, etc., it's a whole different matter. I can read a few things. Namely, when we are talking about strengthening, about the financial market... We're gonna insist that the prosecution's issues, the prosecution's actions, be localized. The same is true, for example. from IPN. in KNF. We do not say that this is the only good solution, but now what concerns the financial market, the activities in this market requires specialist knowledge and rapid action. The point is, it's not like five or six different kinds of services are being assembled. In this direction, i.e. the fact that there is one decision-making and implementation centre for these projects also goes on in many countries. And so do we. As regards the issue of public authority, we are also making a request... sorry, we are talking about the fact that the financial market element, security in this market, is also the subject of a political debate in the Sejm by obtaining discharge. We are talking about security in the budget market. And it should be the same with information about the financial market. As for the financial spokesman, we say this: education is one thing, cooperation with district consumer spokespersons is another, but the most important thing is the possibility of collective disputes. In addition, financial assistance to victims, both for future victims and for those already... I will not quote all the things mentioned in the information that was sent to you as our information about the team's work.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u41	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz? [[Yes...]] To the question? Do you have a question for me, Senator? [[No, no, I'd like to make a formal application.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u42	I'd like to make a formal application because I'm sitting here, feeling like I'm in some weird matrix right now. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about a thief and a victim, and the case is very simple. I ask you to close the list of questions because we are currently debating whether it is worth setting up a committee of inquiry or not. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Amber Gold, there was a committee of inquiry, and we cannot set up a committee of inquiry in the case of SKOKs, in the case of GetBack, we cannot set up a committee of inquiry, during my constituents who are being wronged, demand this. So we're either in the state of law, or we're in a place where I don't understand anything. There's no more democracy if that's what's going on. Rulers do what they want to do to each other. That's why I'm applying to close the list of questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u43	Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz applied to close the list of questions. I still have five senators to ask. If I don't hear... [[I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal, I volunteered, but as usual, you didn't see me...]] [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Me, right?]] Six senators are saved. If I do not hear an objection, I will consider that the request has been accepted. I don't hear any objections... [[No, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: But the senator is entered...]] The senator is... [[As far as the motion is concerned...]] Oh, you're against it? [[Yes, of course, I object. Sami, ladies and gentlemen...]] Then please... Okay, well, if you object... [[But, Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to say something about that. Just for a second.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u44	Ladies and gentlemen, after all, you have invented this resolution yourself, you have introduced it to the agenda. And now you don't want to debate it? One element of the debate is also asking questions to authors or co-authors, so this proposal is completely pointless. And what Senator Fedorovich said... Well, Mr. Senator, you'd have to read the constitution and the law on the execution of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, because then you'd know that the Senate can't create a committee of inquiry. [[But I know that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u45	Okay, Mr. Senator, as I understand it, there was a reason. You opposed it... [[I know that...]] No, there's no dialogue. I'm just gonna say one thing, Senator, because you've only just come to the meeting: it's been over an hour now to ask questions. In that case, I'm in charge of a five-minute technical break, and after that break, there will be a vote on the motion to close the list. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 33 to 11 minutes 37]] I'm reopening the session. Where's Fedorovich? Senator Jerzy Fedorovich.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u46	Mrs. Marshal, if you don't mind... My speech was dictated by the emotions of the debate. Please allow me to withdraw my application to close the list... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] ...senators asking questions. [[I'll sign up for the question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u47	Good. Well, then... [[I'm taking over the senator's motion.]] ...we continue...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u48	Mrs. Marshal, I'm taking over the senator's motion, i.e. request to close the list.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u49	Senator Mammoth is filing a motion to close the list of questions. Is anyone against it? [[Then we'll shut it down, okay?]] [[Voice from the room: It's closed.]] Senator Mammoth has filed a motion to close the list of questions. If I don't hear any objection, I'm gonna think that... [[I'm against it, unless...]] But the senator has already signed up. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Calm down, please. If I do not hear an objection, I will consider that the request has been accepted. There's no objection. Thank you very much. The list of questions has been closed. We're continuing our deliberations. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! There were questions here... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down. I'm gonna have to ask you to calm down.]] Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! As a general rule, all documents of the Supreme Audit Chamber shall be made public unless they are covered by a clause on account of the Act on... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u51	Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Ladies and gentlemen, if you would like to have a conversation, please step out of the room. I ask for peace so that we can continue these questions and so that the Senator rapporteur can answer quietly. Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u52	All control documents of the NIK shall be made public unless they relate to the control of classified areas. That's not how it was in this case. And my question is something else. In the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, because this was the question of the Minister of Finance's reply to the audit speeches and to the report itself. In this reply we read that the Minister of Finance would like to thank NIK for the proposals de lege ferenda presented in the information, i.e. the proposals for amendments to the law on strengthening investor protection in the financial market, and to ensure that they will be analysed in detail as regards their implementation in the legal provisions governing the functioning of the financial market. Does Mr President know that the answer signed by the Deputy Minister of Finance is from 3 January 2020, which is more than 2 years ago? Have these conclusions de lege ferenda been implemented? Has there been a wide range of legislative changes that have strengthened the safety of financial market participants in Poland?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u54	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I didn't look into the papers, I'd have to check it out. Well, I'll tell you what I remember. Namely, none of the institutions This also applies to the Ministry of Finance It did not complete all the comments and suggestions made by the Supreme Audit Chamber. And that's why we're offering. We have listened to what the Supreme Audit Chamber's auditors have proposed to protect the financial market and what has not been implemented by the institutions, including by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u55	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u56	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have carefully read the draft of our resolution. The State here makes it clear what conclusions have been reached by the team, which have been established in relation to the failure of the Financial Supervision Commission, by the Ministry of Finance, but also share the suspicion that there was a protective umbrella over the company's activities. I would like to ask if there have been events that could indicate a connection between this company and the political class.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u57	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u58	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I'll tell you what I heard in the meeting with the victims. We didn't give up any of the team's meetings to look at this thread of connections, because we'd get a round-the-clock answer again. Let me put it this way: the victims had the impression that they did. They talked about it on the basis of the following events: the Warsaw Stock Exchange Award, awards awarded to representatives of executive and political power by right-wing media... I'm telling you in general not to mention anyone here. As I recall, it was about the Polish newspaper and newspapers cooperating with it. The awards were given to the representatives of the highest political and state authorities, and these victims say this: we see this picture that the power does not care what concerns security in the financial market. Was it just a certain mirage, or was it so authentic? Well, that's why a committee of inquiry needs to be set up to answer why the relevant laws relating to the solutions suggested by the European Union were not implemented in due time, why they did not respond to these signals, why prizes were given when they knew what the financial situation was and why they did not analyse what was relevant to the financial situation of the company. Well, there was a sudden increase in costs. In our view, this raises doubts. Was this from an umbrella or from inability? I can't answer that question, Senator. That's why we need a committee of inquiry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u59	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u60	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator rapporteur, I am aware that in time an audit firm prepared a report on the entry into the stock exchange of GetBack. The NIK report suggested that it was a report that, you might say, cheated the economic conditions of those customers who were caught up in it. Can you tell us today, Mr. Senator, what kind of audit firm has prepared this report? That's one thing. And secondly, has this company been punished in any way?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, if you don't mind, I'm not going to replace this company because it wasn't the subject of our deliberations, and I don't want to talk about an untested thing. Well, the name of this company is available... However, what you are talking about is a very important phenomenon. One element of the success of this whole pyramid or of this undertaking, the result of which is the deception of many citizens, was what concerns the unreliable, so to speak, the analysis of documents which were presented by GetBack at the entrance, as well as later, in the reports. And one of the key elements here is the role of audit firms and auditors. We also refer to this in the form of proposals, what needs to be done to avoid such situations. So that's a very important element. Without this element, there would probably be no scandal or this scandal would be on a limited scale, in the sense of its implementation. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u62	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u63	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, my time, at the beginning of change, I studied the Argentine system, I fought the Argentine system, it's also a famous, huge octopus or pyramid, functioning all over Poland. I've written a bill... Well, I can say that I've actually eliminated the Argentine system because I'm the author of the bill that was adopted. At the time I was in opposition, and yet the government cooperated with me, we worked together to achieve this goal. But from everything you're saying, there's no cooperation today. Well, then how do you explain... Well, it's too bad the government didn't cooperate with your team, they don't work with anyone who wants to fight the consequences of this. But how do you explain that you have an explanation that the government is not cooperating with the Supreme Audit Office?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, two words about cooperation. That's why we're doing this debate, this draft resolution, and that's why our report and our proposal. In order to start this cooperation, regardless of political colors, Poland needs legal changes today, what your sanator says. And only within the framework of cooperation, within both parliament and government, can we make a good proposal As is the case with the Argentine system that you have been working on personally. Speaking of non-cooperation, I would like to say this: since for a discussion on the role of the Ministry of Finance, the report of NIK, our proposals, solutions, what to do, Minister Patkowski sends you the director... I don't detract from the director's role, but the director only has a technical administrative decision, just and exclusively, so there should be someone in the rank of Deputy Minister. It's a first. Secondly, we were asking questions, and the principal said, well, we'll write it down and we'll answer it at the next meeting. And of course those answers were what they were... So it wasn't good cooperation, in short. And why the government doesn't respond to no one... Well, I'd like to say that NIK responded, government representatives and institutions responded. But they answered, please read it. As they replied. Therefore, if I said they didn't answer, it would be against the truth. There are representatives of NIK, I think you will be able to ask, gentlemen of NIK, why this is happening in their assessment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u65	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Mroz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u66	Mr. Chairman, I have two questions. The first question is, could you tell us how many people are being charged by the D.A.'s office in this case? Because from what's happened, it's like nobody's done anything about it. And as far as I can tell, there's probably about 20 defendants today and there's a case in court. We'll see how it ends. And my second question is, did this team that worked come up with more than NIK? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u67	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I've answered that first question three times before, but I'll answer it for the fourth time, maybe it was in a different form. I would like to say once again: this is not the point of our suggestions that after 4 years of this scandal and the start of action related to this affair, 20 people should be charged. That's one thing. Secondly, it is completely impossible to find out who was the creator of this project, who was spiritus moves and what was the course of money. And this is the creature. The U.S. prosecutors started with who was the head of the venture, how the money was distributed, who was paying, who was paying out, etc., etc. As far as I know, we've invited your D.A. to ask him. He didn't show up. And it doesn't matter, Mr. Senator, whether these people are 20 or 29, but the essence of the matter is whether the prosecution in Poland treats this in a fair way, in order to quickly prosecute and put those most guilty on the bench. Let me remind you again: within 7.5 months, the creator of the world's largest scandal was sentenced to 150 years in prison. For more than four years we have struggled with punishing those who distributed these shares or managed part of the estate. [[Well, what about Amber Gold?]] Half the time. Too long. Too long, but half as long, if you'd like to know.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski's question, please. [[I'll remind you that I asked two questions.]] [[Oh, second, did something come up...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u69	No, no, Senator, I'll say it again. We weren't, and we're not a committee of inquiry to answer your question because we don't have the authority to do that. Our goal was to answer the question first and foremost. In contact with persons who manage the individual, the NIK report and all that is happening, and the victims Whether and how the recommendations of the Supreme Audit Chamber have been implemented, which the heads of these institutions believe should be changed in Polish law, how to help the victims and how to protect the market in the future. These were the foundations of our work. We didn't know what new elements were, because we'd be stuck in five minutes with no response.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u70	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u71	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, 2 quotes from the same text of the resolution. First: The legally limited possibilities of the Senate of the Republic of Poland... And the second quote: On the appeals of people injured by the Company, this subject was taken up by a special Senacki Team... When did you learn that you have virtually no authority on this subject? If it was at first, what were you driving to do when you couldn't actually do anything? And if it was at the end, why did you find out so late? The second question is related to the numbers that appear; they are always interesting in the texts of resolutions. We read that in the last 20 years, financial scandals... Why 20 years? And before that, there's been no big deal? I understand that if we do, we should have some kind of time-cure, like. the end of 1989 [[Timer signal]] Because if we were to consider, for example, 30 years, we'd be in the nineties... probably, 1993 yes, that's right. When it happened the famous affair connected with the privatisation of the Bank of Silesia.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u72	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u73	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, about that first question... You ask a question and you put the thesis right away. Yeah, but that's the way it's gonna be. [[It's the right thing to do.]] You even have to. Well, that's a question like, "Is it true that you stopped beating your wife?" but I'll try to answer that. I want to tell you that we didn't find out yesterday, the day before yesterday, we're the only ones who know from the beginning. Well, maybe unlike you, sir. The Senate doesn't have that kind of authority. We therefore point out that the Senate does not have these powers. With this knowledge from the beginning of the world and one day longer... And that's all I can say. So we didn't suddenly get a glimpse that we didn't have those powers. In turn, knowing that these powers are exercised by the Sejm, we, as part of our powers as Senate, ask you kindly to refer Marshal Witek to the session... With the argument that we are quoting here. As far as the 20 years are concerned, not 40 years, let me be brief: Mr. Senator, please make an amendment so that it is more than 20 years old. The biggest issues of this kind... I don't remember if they were like that 20 years ago, but if they were, and you think they should be... then there was a privatisation of the Silesian Bank or the transformations, I don't remember exactly. Please make an amendment, and we will be happy to consider it. If you had been involved in the team's work, we would have considered it very seriously. The case you're talking about is very serious. She's the key to this enterprise at all... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please? And that's where I'm gonna end.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u74	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u75	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to know if this team knows which banks were involved and how they were connected to this whole situation. If you'd care to elaborate on that... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait. It wouldn't be that big of a deal if... well, maybe it would, but it wouldn't be on such a scale or there would be a lot of difficulty for it to develop so much in the market if it weren't for the involvement of brokerage houses and banks. We did not verify exactly, because we do not have the powers that the banks participated in, but I can say that on 30 October 2018 with the President of the OOKiK and in the presence of the financial spokesman there were meetings with their representatives about the distributed bonds. We suspect it was those brokerage houses and banks that were involved in this operation. There are nine brokerage houses and seven banks listed here. Banks: Idea Bank, Getin Bank, Alior Bank, Commercial Bank, Haitong Bank, Universal Savings Bank... 7 banks and 9 brokerage houses. [[Which brokerage houses?]] I'll pass it on, Senator. I'm not going to exchange them for time savings, but if you'll excuse me, I'll give you a piece of that information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u77	Thank you very much. And that was the last question. Thank you very much, Senator, for the comprehensive answers. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal.]] Today's meeting was attended by the representatives of the Supreme Audit Chamber: the counsel of the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Mr Michał Jędrzejczyk, and the press spokesperson of the Supreme Audit Chamber, Mr Łukasz Pawelski. Very cordially welcome, gentlemen. I would like to ask if the invited guests would like to speak on the draft resolution presented? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of President Marian Banasi, thank you very much for inviting me to this meeting. Very short. The Supreme Audit Chamber is pleased to note that the results of the audit concerning the activities of state bodies vis-à-vis GetBack SA, published in December 2019, have become the starting point for the work of the Senacki Group for GETBACK SA. Undoubtedly, the findings resulting from this audit, which the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber of 19 January 2021, during the meeting of the Senacki Group for GETBACK SA, presented in quite detail, indicating the irregularities of the state bodies appointed to exercise control and supervision of the financial market in respect of the company, remain valid. Despite the adoption of the Law of 9 November 2018 amending certain laws in view of strengthening the supervision and protection of investors in the financial market, the 12 proposals made by de lege ferenda in this audit, both in terms of strengthening investor protection in the financial market and in terms of facilitating consumer redress, should still be considered as valid. Without wishing to repeat the detailed results of this audit, I would just like to draw your senators' attention to the results of another, also very important audit, which was published a month ago, exactly 30 May. The audit dealt with the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission over the remedial actions of selected banks, cooperative savings and credit banks. This audit is also a continuation of the previous audit and is the result of many complaints which have been addressed to the Chamber by victims, among others. by the activities of GetBack. The survey covered, among others, the above-mentioned checks. the supervisory activities of the Commission and its authorities in the field of 3 banks which have been subject to compulsory restructuring due to the risk of bankruptcy. In the context of the compulsory restructuring of one of these banks, the acquiring bank took over the vast majority of its assets and liabilities, but the bank's potential liabilities to meet the claims of a company's bondholders were not taken over. Thus, this stakeholder group has been critically limited to the possible satisfaction of its claims. The Supreme Audit Chamber has tried to obtain certain information three times from the Banking Guarantee Fund under Article. Article 29 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point (2) (a) f of the Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control and three times to our demands have not been answered. The BFG points out that the Supreme Audit Chamber does not have any powers in this respect, which, of course, the Supreme Audit Chamber does not agree because the article I mentioned gives the opportunity to request information from any entity that is not controlled. The question of interpretation of the article is irrelevant here. 2th Law on the Supreme Chamber of Control. Finally, I would like to point out that, with regard to the control that we carried out and the results of which we published a month ago, we have such a general conclusion that, in terms of compulsory restructuring, the Bank Guarantee Fund is currently not controlled by any other body in the State, including the Financial Supervision Commission. In addition, I will further point out that, within the framework of this audit, the Chamber has determined that the prosecutors in charge of the investigation did not secure at the property of Idea Bank the amount of PLN 65 million derived from commissions received for the offer of GetBack SA bonds, which was indicated in the KNF Communication of 1 December 2020. This audit has given the sumptuousness to the subsequent conclusions of de lege ferenda. Those conclusions are three. I will point out only one, the most important one, i.e. the proposal to restore the state status of the BFG legal person, which would enable the Supreme Audit Chamber to control the Banking Guarantee Fund also in terms of compulsory restructuring using all four criteria: legality, economy, reliability and purpose. Thank you so much for your attention. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u79	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of question to the guests present at the meeting on the agenda item. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u80	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Counselor! I only have one quick question. It's about the 65 million you were talking about. It's shocking that they haven't been secured. I understand it's gone somewhere. Do you have the knowledge, both from the first and second checks, or is this the only amount? Is anyone even following the issue of money flow from GetBack? Did KNF do this kind of thing, in your opinion,?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u81	I find that difficult to answer directly. In fact, the amount of 65 million is derived from a letter we received from the National Public Prosecutor's Office at the request of the President addressed to the Public Prosecutor's Office pursuant to Article. 12 law on the D.A.'s office. From this reply we have information that the amount of PLN 65 million, which was indicated in the KNF Communication on 1 December 2020, was not secured by prosecutors. Of course, the prosecution had its arguments in this regard, indicating first of all that the law did not allow it in some way, but the Supreme Audit Chamber did not share these arguments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u82	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u83	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I do not hide that I am, of course, shocked by this information. If the prosecution explains that it could not secure the funds, because there are no legal provisions in its assessment, the question arises immediately: where is the amendment of the legislation that will enable it to do so? But that's by the way. The second point: when, in 2020, more than 2 years ago, the Minister of Finance informed that he thanked NIK for the requests of de lege ferenda to amend the law and ensured that they would be examined in detail in terms of possibilities... Did I understand correctly that today the NIK representative said that none of these proposals were implemented after 2 years in the form of appropriate proposals for legislative amendments?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u84	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u85	Mr. Senator, the conclusions of the de lege ferenda that we have drawn in connection with the checks carried out in the area of GetBack... such conclusions have not been accepted by the Sejm in such a formula. [[Thank you. No further questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u86	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u87	Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the question is very simple: how does the Supreme Chamber of Control estimate that responsibility for the GetBack affair is broken down? Who can a certain institution may not personally neglect their duties in the highest way? I'm not talking about deliberate, intentional, but presumably neglecting my duties.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u88	Thank you very much. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u89	Mr. Senator, I believe that this reply was formulated in the general assessment in the information on the results of the audit concerning GetBack, where, in the first verses, we point out that the state institutions, pending the disclosure of liquidity problems, did not provide effective protection to non-professional financial market participants. And in the following part of this general assessment, we point out that, as it seems, the greatest burden here is on the Financial Supervision Committee. We also assessed the Stock Exchange in a similar way. As regards the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection, we have pointed out that certain actions were too slow, as far as they could actually be implemented. I'm also here to encourage you... Of course, the information on the results of the audit has 170 pages, but the synthesis of the results of the audit It's only 12 pages. And there, in fact, all the facts that you discussed here today have been explained very precisely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u90	Thank you very much. No further questions... Oh, once again, Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. I'm sorry, because you said to the senator that... [[I have a favor to ask.]] ...you don't have any more...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u91	Using the formula of the question 'Cause there's no other way. I will ask the Supreme Audit Chamber for a document, the answer of the prosecutor's office, that he cannot do anything because of the lack of legal provisions in this regard. And the second question, I mean. the request that the NIK representative, in the context of the reply to which he gave that the financial supervision committee had the greatest responsibility for the GetBack affair, reminds us who appointed the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u92	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u93	I mean... I'd like to be well understood, too. With regard to who is responsible for the issue that you are talking about here, I am unable to answer this question here, but I am still referring to the general assessment in the information on the results of the audit, where we have clearly, precisely indicated how we have assessed the individual bodies that we have controlled in this audit. [[The question was who appointed the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission.]] Please excuse me from answering that question. I don't have a bill in front of me right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u94	Thank you very much. No further questions? No further questions. I would like to inform you that, as I understand it, Mr. NIK has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Kwiatkowski, yes? [[Counselor of the President of the Supreme Chamber of Control Michał Jędrzejczyk: Yes, sir.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u95	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At the very beginning, may I say that the Chairman of the Financial Supervision Commission appoints the President of the Council of Ministers for a five-year term. In the context of the description of the malfunction in the operation of KNF, it is worth remembering this. And to be clear: this KNF President, who is described as President during the period of numerous irregularities in the operation of the Financial Supervision Committee, was of course appointed for this government. And now I'm getting to the point. One of the Senators of PiS asked: why are you doing this? Once Jarosław Kaczyński said: "Donald "I can't do anything. I'm the one who's gonna say, "PiS, I can't do anything, my dear whistleblowers." We can do a lot. And not only can we, but we have a duty. Your prosecutor is complaining to the Supreme Chamber of Control: well, I have no way of securing assets that could go to the victims of the GetBack scandal, a change of law is required. I say, what are you doing? You're not doing anything. Then you have to answer the question: aren't you doing anything because you don't want to come to the aid of people who are hurt by the GetBack scandal, or are you not doing anything, because maybe someone is interested in not being protected and being used in a different way than to satisfy the right claims of citizens in this case? And why are citizens' claims right? I mean, all the papers... Here, of course, I have a report from the Supreme Audit Chamber on the audit that I myself introduced at the NIK College meeting, because I applied for the completion of the NIK control plan precisely because of the unprecedented extent of these irregularities. Read this document. This is a collective indictment of public institutions. You have the individual institutions listed together with the assessments and the extent of the irregularities for which they are responsible. I was talking about the Financial Supervision Committee, who's calling the president. We have the name of the controlled entity: the Financial Supervision Authority. What does the NIK report say? No inspections have been carried out in GetBack SA within 5 years of the authorisation to manage securitised securitisation funds claims; failure to carry out supervision of the company's disclosure obligations prior to disclosure of liquidity problems GetBack SA; failure to analyse the market sold by banks with a loss of value, failure to provide information on the portfolios sold from the bank supervision facility to the capital supervision facility by September 2018............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ You have not even ensured that information is provided between one and the other organisational unit of the Financial Supervision Authority. And you're saying you're running the state? Further, we read that acceptance of the practice of investment firms not requiring the conclusion of a contract for the provision of brokerage services and the failure to provide investors with a test of the adequacy and appropriateness of the financial instruments offered and of late action to clarify national rules in this respect. Next: cases of delay in notifying the prosecution of suspicion of a criminal offence and entering entities in the list of public warnings of KNF. After all, if you have a state control authority saying that you even... Well, I don't want to judge for what reasons this delay was, whether it was conscious or unconscious. But you guys don't even call the D.A.'s office? In the absence of an administrative procedure against one investment fund association; not informing the Audit Supervisory Board and PIBR that the auditors carrying out the audit of the financial statements of GetBack SA did not notify KNF of the significant deficiencies found. You're gonna say, "Well, KNF, the Prime Minister has appointed a president, but he missed, well, it didn't work out, we've called a loser." I would like to remind you that it was a person with allegations in the sense that a polygraph was carried out in this respect, and the expert stated in the course of the proceedings that the former KNF president was giving false information as to whether or not he was trying to force funds in the context of one of the decisions he was taking as head of this institution. I'm putting this organ away, going to the Ministry of Finance. What do we read? The Minister responsible for Financial Institutions did not properly organise the legislative process in such a way as to ensure the timely implementation of two of the three EU Directives, the implementation of which was covered by the NIK study; the delay in implementing one of these Directives (MIFiD II) translated into the later entry into force of additional provisions increasing the protection of the bondholders of GetBack SA. And you're saying there's nothing to do? There it is. There's a whole range of legislative changes that you're not dealing with, I don't know whether consciously or unconsciously, I'm not able to judge that. We are not here with prosecutorial powers, but what I would do if I were you, I would go out and say to almost 10,000 victims: Dear Poles, we would like to apologize. Public institutions under the PiS have failed. We couldn't make it, we made you lose from PLN 2.5 billion to PLN 3 billion. Read the resolution. What is the most important part of this resolution? The Senack Group for GETBACK SA has determined the following. In order to prevent the re-abuse of thousands of citizens by fraudulent financial market operators, it is necessary to introduce a number of legislative changes. Today, if I were you, what can we do? Together, let's work on billing projects to secure Poles. We already inform you: yes, we will work on changes to legislation in this area. Legislative work needs to be undertaken in areas such as the one that should be started in the context of those who are injured. . Institutional assistance to financial market operators. This is about compensation mechanisms, financial and tax mechanisms, assistance to victims, mechanisms to help them fight the powerless against the scandalists, as it turned out, the state. It is about the possibility of pursuing your claims before a court, the introduction of a fixed flat-rate court fee, which will not constitute a financial barrier to the recovery of your claims, and the possibility of referring the case to a court other than a court in Warsaw, where justice for your minister of justice... There are already 3 years of time in Warsaw when it comes to setting the date of the first vocabulary. We continue to propose: monitoring and combating illegal activities of financial market operators by strengthening the control powers of the Financial Supervision Commission over the activities of statutory auditors and audit firms providing certification services to financial institutions; real interaction between financial security network bodies; obligation for the Minister responsible for financial institutions to present an annual report on the functioning of the financial market and its security. We want to make public information mandatory so that no one ever tells me, I don't know, I can't. You can't? Then tell me you can't. Then we will really try to help and, where legislative changes are needed, we will prepare such changes. Another area that will be the subject of our commitment is the solution to the problems in the financial market. It is necessary to confer the powers of the Financial Supervision Commission to conduct criminal proceedings in respect of selected financial offences, to introduce measures for the compulsory release of financial market operators' assets as powers to that entity and, of course, institutional assistance to the financial market operators affected. This is actually the most important point. Because what is the most important lesson to us in this affair? Let's remember that. The citizen who invested in good faith was not adequately secured by specialised state institutions. The Polish State allowed the situation in which it was institutionally misled. He was told that these were as secure securities as, say, Treasury bonds. And you can't say the investor made a mistake. He was often misled, and later it turned out that the Financial Supervision Committee could run certain fuses and actions far earlier, but was not interested in taking such action. [[Timer signal]] I would like to apologize to all those who have lost their money at this point in human terms because they were convinced that the state and its institutions were working, and you failed them all along the line. I say that by directing my words to the PiS senators. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u96	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Wczyła will speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u97	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The GetBack scandal shocks me with a scale, but I am no less shocked by what the Polish state has done for four years after this incident to prevent a similar scandal from occurring in the future. Because let's not kid ourselves, this affair was carried out in the light of the jupiters, using and under the applicable law, and the bodies set up to counter such incidents did nothing or, on the contrary, confounded the company, rewarding it for its achievements, and I am talking about the Financial Supervision Committee, which within 5 years did not perform any control at GetBack, and I am talking about the Stock Exchange, which in 2017 rewarded the company to apply for the suspension of its shares. Here I will remind you that the head of the Financial Supervision Commission is appointed Prime Minister of Poland. The fact that more than 9 000 people were deprived of savings worth PLN 2.5 billion did not cause any reaction in the Polish country, such that perhaps something should be changed in the law, that perhaps the functioning of institutions which are set up to control the financial market and protect it from smart people and manipulators should be changed. There were no institutional safeguards or measures that would secure the money of ordinary dealers, so-called. non-professional financial market players, in front of such smart guys. Unfortunately, it is very likely that such a situation would be possible today. This statement has just been confirmed by the representatives of the Supreme Audit Chamber. In addition, experts say that there are currently around 500 financial institutions in Poland, which also use legal gaps to stretch or even cheat Poles, although not yet on the same scale as in the case of GetBack. This already, ladies and gentlemen, cannot be called error or negligence. It's not a big deal anymore. Only GetBack, this is a scandal compromising the Polish state, a state which allowed after the discovery of the scandal for the functioning of a system that is a motor to create such scandals. Moreover, the fact that you are interested in fighting such phenomena shows that the Ministry of Justice and the National Public Prosecutor's Office have not been involved in the work of the team at all. Today, ladies and gentlemen, it is possible to say that, when Winston Churchill says that if the GetBack scandal teaches something, it is that the Polish state has learned nothing. Therefore, it can also be said that the Senack Group for the GETBACK Company did a job for the State and even against its authorities. Anyway, by calling this senate team, we had a suspicion that this was the case. Today it's not a suspicion, today it's a certainty. In our conclusions we point out what needs to be done to protect Poles from similar incidents in the future. We hope that the draft resolution will wake up the Polish government, which will finally take action to finally settle this issue and to protect us from similar issues in the future through appropriate changes in the law and functioning of institutions. We also recommend to the Polish state 10 tasks which will impose such obligations and tasks on the relevant institutions so that it can be seen in time and prevented from doing financial machinations. I also hope that every senator, regardless of who he represents in this Senate, will want this affair to be explained to the end and to be punished. In order for this to happen, we need to know about this, and the Sejm's committee of inquiry is not formally limited to the same extent as the Senate. If that happens, we may be able, although with a few years of delay, to say that the story of the GetBack affair has taught something to the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u98	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Władysław Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! I'll start by thanking you. First of all, I would like to ask you from NIK to thank President Banasi for watching and exposing the hypocrisy of the Polish state. Because if it weren't for NIK and Mr. Banas, we'd never have known about the scams, about blew up the state with thieves. Thank you, because it would be as sweeping under the rug as any other scandal in our country. I'm not surprised, Senator Czarnobaj, as chairman of this committee, that you do not come to the invitation from the prosecutor and the Minister of Justice. I'm not surprised. 'Cause that includes him, too. The approach to blocking property thieves is proof of complete powerlessness. I don't want to say worse. If I had given you dramatic conversations here with those people who lost their assets, the question would never have been asked: why are you doing this? [[Yes, sir.]] Because that's an immoral question. Why are we doing this? Because people were committing suicide there, Mr. Senator. There are family dramas because they were deceived by the Polish state. That's why we're doing this to move your consciences so that for the first time, you can close your eyes to party matters and vote as morality dictates. Do it. Do not suggest that our Members appoint a committee of inquiry. You know perfectly well, and you cynically ask why we didn't. I mean, your friends are gonna make it up to you. Then why do you ask? [[And they screwed up because that's what happened.]] I appeal and please, recalling here these 10,000 people and those who committed suicide... Our consciences should be moved. The only reason people lost their entire life's work is because the state is in a rotten process. I read that NIK report. He's shocking. This report by NIK shows the great weakness of our country. And it also shows the hypocrisy of our country. There are conclusions that defend themselves. And it is humiliating that something like this is happening in a country in the middle of Europe in the European Union. In conclusion, my request. Mr. Senator Blackbay, don't stop doing what you're doing. I very much like the proposals that repair the Polish state, at least in part. I'm sure we're not gonna do the same thing in the U.S. because you respect a man there. But even if we can return a dozen percent of this money, it will be our greatest success, the success of the Senate of the Republic. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u101	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! The Mafia. Mafia A secret organised crime group with large influences, linked to persons at different levels of power, carrying out activities financed by crime. That's the definition of the mob. I wonder if at the moment the ruling class in Poland is not just such an organized crime group, because as I look at what is happening in this affair and in many others... 4 years of inactivity... Not even that, it's not inaction. 4 years of throwing logs at everyone who wants to explain this affair, 4 years of pretending, fucking stupid that there is no problem, 4 years of disrespect for citizens and their money, 4 years of disregard for the state. This isn't from the box anymore. This is a country that has the mark of a mafia state. Aren't you ashamed? That's why you took the power to sweep things under the rug? We're getting less and less, because I see a fellow senator leaving the room, too. [[No, go ahead.]] I'm gonna keep talking because what we can do is tell the truth. Here, a colleague of Senator Czerwinski said, "Why do you do anything?" What was it like? You can't do anything. Yes, Mr. Senator, there's not much we can do. It's the Law and Justice that could explain this case, but he doesn't want to sweep it under the rug. So now either prove that this is not your affair that you have good will and want to explain it, show the Poles that you are on the side of good, or your inaction will prove that this is your affair and you have stolen this money. Prove you're clean. Then you can. We can do something, too. We're not powerless. We can tell the truth, and we will, Mr. Senator, tell the truth. Yes, we can't do much because you've taken over the whole country, you've got all the authorities of the state, but along with these authorities of the state, you have citizens in deep respect. And pride walks before the fall. I appeal once again: show that you are not a mob, give people back their faith in the state, give Poles their dignity. Thank you. [[Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u102	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u103	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I would also like to say thank you to NIK, because if the chief of NIK was someone else today, this report would probably not be there and we probably wouldn't know about these irregularities. So that I thank you for the report we have received and for the continuation of this work by the Supreme Audit Chamber. Second thing. I would like to say thank you to the committee, thank you to Senator Blackobay. There is not much we can do here, but we can prepare proposals, which is very important, and that was the task of the committee. But we can also, which is much more important, recall this case and make it public, because this case is not closed, because this case, it seems, causes the rulers to want not to talk about it. In the meantime, you are left with all the victims, thousands of people who have lost their lives, as Senator Komarnicki has already said. These are thousands of people injured, completely defenseless and left to themselves. I would like to accuse the authorities, I would like to accuse the prosecution of passiveness when it comes to the implementation, as we have learned here today, of these conclusions de lege ferenda. The investigation isn't over, so I can't press charges, but I'm afraid, I'm really afraid, I have serious concerns that it will be as usual, i.e. In the end, we will find out that the defendants will be prosecuted and that the real perpetrators of this scandal will be unpunished. Because we see how it works. Nobody wants to fix it. Why has the government, the prosecutor's office, the Ministry of Justice not come forward with the proposals that our committee has made so far? Why do we not want to fix the situation and keep citizens from making another such a big deal out of it? I am also here, of course, accusing the Prime Minister, who in this affair has a lot behind his ears, starting with fatal nominations, and ending with the control of media messages, as we have learned, as I have said, by asking a question, from the so-called. Dwórczyk's e-mails. And it turned out that the GetBack scandal was being manipulated as far as the transmission is concerned, on the government line. Polish Press Agency. I don't want to dwell on it, but it shows that the government didn't care that all the cases were cleared up. And the government doesn't have clean hands in this case. And there's evidence. And I hope that one day this will be explained by the committee of inquiry. And I agree with what one of my previous speakers said to Senator Czerwinski. Senator, you can't ask, you shouldn't ask such questions, why we didn't ask the Sejm to set up a committee of inquiry again. Ask yourself what you've done about it. What did you and your colleagues in the Senate and the Seym do to get their leaders to explain this matter to the very end? That is the question you should ask yourself, not ask us why we did not make another application, which would, of course, be rejected. Ask me why. Why was this request for a committee of inquiry rejected? Why was there a giant committee on Amber Gold, and here they simply refused to set up a committee, not wanting to explain it? I would also like to talk about sweeping the case under the carpet by refusing to set up a committee of inquiry. Because if someone doesn't agree to the committee of inquiry, which our formation didn't have a problem with, it means that they want to sweep things under the carpet, that the scandal goes much higher than the messages would have been right now. Something absolutely disrespectful and indicative of accomplice is the disregard for signals from citizens and institutions. And there were published letters that flowed... It's not like nobody knew about this. Everyone knew what was going on, and nobody did anything about it in time. Direct use of sponsorship at about the same time... The President, the Prime Minister, the heads of the institution receive awards, and all this is financed by a company which is the most scandalous company in the history of recent years. This can only be compared to the scandal in the SKOKs. How is it possible that all these people were... that the Prime Minister's father walked and lobbied for this institution? Nobody cares about that. We're not talking about it. And the victims in the privacy of their homes, either standing in court or walking in the prosecution's office, are trying to find some justice somewhere, but they're leaving these institutions with nothing. They're not taken seriously. No one addresses them, no one apologizes on behalf of the government for everything that's happened. So I'd like to say that in my opinion we were dealing with... I don't know what's going on in other places, but it's possible that something still works like this. Because here, as the committee has certainly said, these institutions do not work. These institutions don't work. And since there have been virtually no changes in the law, we can guess that they will not continue to work. So we are dealing with theft done in broad daylight with the complete passiveness of government and state institutions. And that's outrageous. We have to talk about it. And we're not gonna shut our mouths, we're gonna keep doing this, we're gonna keep doing this, and we're gonna keep doing this, and we're gonna keep asking questions until this is cleared up, hopefully, to the bottom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u104	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The GetBack scandal only proves that the politics and behaviour of some parliamentarians here, of course... And this empty hall says that politics takes away some people's minds not only but also their honor. Because in such a situation, when 10,000 Poles were robbed, there should be some compromise in this Chamber and an attempt to get to the truth, explain and make amends for the people who lost in this affair. And one might ask: what are you afraid of, what are you afraid of, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of Law and Justice? Are you afraid of the truth? The truth will set you free. We've done a lot of work on the committee. You could join our committee and try not only to explain the issue of GetBack, but also, above all, to work on solutions that will protect Poles from ordinary stealing in the future. Remember, on Amber Gold's job, the banks were making money, but you were making money, too. When a thief who stole something is caught and tried by a court in criminal proceedings, a fence is also judged, the fence is also liable for his involvement in the crime. Here neither the thief has been tried nor the fences have even given away the stolen money. Remember, Amber Gold was making banks and making money. All you have to do is give back the money that was made in the course of the crime we've been dealing with. I'm from the committee's work... We worked for six months. The senator asked a lot of questions here. And I ask the question: why didn't you help us with the work of this committee? Why didn't you put your job to explain it all, but also to develop new mechanisms that will protect Poles from this kind of stealing? I have an 80-year-old doctor in front of me who came to our committee meeting. 80-year-old old man, a doctor who came and said: I work today, riding in an ambulance, because I have to earn a living, for a living, for bread. I brought all my savings to the bank, believing that since we are living in a state of law, since there is the Financial Supervision Commission, there is the Stock Exchange, there is the Ministry of Finance, then I can go to the bank and I can entrust my savings to the banking institution behind which you stand. He lost his life's work. And that 80-year-old doctor drives in an ambulance today so he can survive. No one has been held responsible, and no one is eager to bear such responsibility in order to exercise such justice. 10,000 Poles have lost their entire lives. The GetBack scandal is the biggest after 1989. Of course, it is said about the SKOK affair, which was an even bigger scandal, because it was 4 billion PLN, only in the event of SKOK money that was paid to the victims, came from the guarantee fund, and here from the pockets of Poles... No one recovered any cash here and so far it does not happen. Bottom line, I'm gonna say the team did a huge job. It is a pity that no one on the right side of the platform participated in the work of our team. We've come up with a proposal. I hope, however, that together we will not only push through the committee of inquiry, because the committee of inquiry is to clear the case and judge the guilty, but also to develop mechanisms that will protect Poles from theft that we have been dealing with in the event of GetBack. I'm counting on it. And I hope, however, that the Senators and parliamentarians of Law and Justice, after all, have in their name the right and justice, will contribute to the creation of a committee of inquiry, and then the Law and Justice will not only have such a verbal dimension, but also a real dimension. Together we will explain the issue of GetBack, we will hold the guilty responsible, we will develop mechanisms to protect Poles for the future from this kind of scandal. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Now, just a little bit, I hope. First of all, I would like to thank everyone very warmly, starting with the Supreme Auditorium... In fact, I should start with all the victims who participated in all the meetings of the team, the people who were involved in the explanation, but also suggested those elements concerning the creation of the law that we should be working on, which we discussed. I also want to say what was mentioned here, and what Senator Tyszkiewicz said. One of the elements of the committee's meeting was the presentation of a report on the health status of victims carried out by the victim's association. Please read, Ladies and Gentlemen of Law and Justice, with this report. He shows how this situation has affected the victims. This is a sad report. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the Senators of the Law and Justice very widely: support the bill. That's one thing. Second... [[Voice from the room: Resolutions.]] Resolutions, excuse me, it's a draft resolution. That's one thing. Second of all, get on with it... I suspect the government's reaction will be as we have heard here from the NIK gentlemen or as we heard during the team meetings. Enable yourselves, set an example, show that you too want to make a good law. In those laws that we want to work on, we won't talk about guilt, punishment, anything. We will want to create things that will improve the quality of the functioning of the law as regards the protection of the financial market for non-professionals investing in this market. Please note that in this particular term of office it is so... You're here with the New Deal project. We say don't do it, let's do it in a minute, let's do it next year. No, we're forceful because our intellectuals have developed a fantastic project, it's going to be the revolution of the millennium. And it's a total disaster. I will not talk about health anymore, but I will say two more words about the economy and inflation. Well, Putin surprised us, the epidemic surprised us. and we have the highest or almost highest inflation in the European Union. And what we're doing besides, like the various laws you're proposing, is something, I'm not going to say outrageous, but at least evil. That is why I ask you to do so: if you do not identify with all the evil that was done in the GetBack event, please join the new law-making programme. The signal from the state will be to vote in favour of the draft resolution. However, if you identify yourselves with what was presented in the NIK report, from this tribune, with what the NIK gentlemen were talking about, what is written in all the documents relating to this affair, and you think this is good, then vote against. But I say once again: we propose to take a step forward, together, a step which will consist in the fact that the citizens of the Republic of Poland, who have been victimized, will receive from us enough help and to the extent that we are discussing, and we will create a law that will be better for any future victims. That is what I call on you to do. I do not go into any kind of personal stumblings of the President of the National Bank of Poland, the head of KNF. Let's leave it alone because we know what it's like. You have what you have, you have those who are, we can't do anything about it, but we can create a good law together. If you join in, and maybe at some meetings you can convince the representatives of the Ministry and the Government and they will join in the creation of the law, it will benefit future generations and people who will operate in this financial market. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, once again I would like to thank everyone very warmly: the members of the team, the Supreme Chamber of Control, because without your report, as it was here, it would not be possible to say this discussion, which is, all the injured, all the experts, all those who worked in the team and who cooperated with the team. I hope so. And here I bow low to the Presidents of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance • that we will also work with such strength on what concerns new solutions relating to the financial market. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u108	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Wojciech Piech.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u109	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of the Senators! I'll be very brief. Man is a flawed being, unfortunately, in all sorts of temptations. This was also the temptation of investments, which proved very, very unfavorable to people, caused damage to their income. Unfortunately, I regret that, because there has already been a lot of money flows in Poland. Surely we can't regulate everything because you can't put all the seals in the bill, because then these laws will be illegible. I suggest we educate ourselves, and education should be based on the fact that when someone says that dinner is free, we know that someone paid for this dinner unfortunately. Well, when someone tells me he gets 18% and there are 5% on the market The return on my capital, it's a red light. Someone's playing the stock market, it's taking the risk, I know it's his risk, and he's making the decisions. But in this case, it was caused by such a desire to make money. I would warn against this kind of labeling of everything and writing down everything that came out here in the bill. Let's hope we can work something out. I'd suggest, for example. The chairman of the finance committee has convened a meeting on how to seal these systems so that such events do not occur. That's it. That's my offer. If we want to do something good, we can discuss it, invite the other side, financial supervision, the Ministry of Finance, and try to define it somehow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u110	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear guests! Senator Piech dared me. I think some things need to be said in the eyes. First line. Indeed, our citizens in the number of about 10,000 may have lost their entire life's work sometimes. It's a tragedy for these people, for these individual people. Therefore, we should do our utmost to restore their lost assets, their lost savings, if possible. This is the first issue: not blocking any processes that lead to this. Second line. There is another stakeholder group, let's call it that, that is, those people who may be wearing the intention to participate in such pyramids, of course not knowing that something is a pyramid, because earlier they are presented with very tempting conditions, some people speak about it and encourage them to participate in it. These people should be warned and actually educated, because that's never too much. But, ladies and gentlemen, this draft resolution, this text is not for that. This is where we were called to join the trial, but there is no trial here, it's an empty text. No matter how the Law and Justice vote, this House has a side of the Civic Platform with coalitioners, which means this resolution will be taken. And then there will be a test, a test of the effectiveness of this resolution, very simple Time will show, time many things explain, it is one of the factors, fortunately he is independent of us and verify intentions, processes, effects. Now I address those who have lost on this affair. This resolution won't change anything, it won't explain anything, it won't help anything. What's it for? In a moment, I will come to this, to the proper motivation of this draft resolution. Who can do something here? Whoever has, as it used to be, an empire, or authority in a particular area, competence. There are authorities in the country that are responsible for the various parts of this empire. What else is the Supreme Chamber of Control? Each country can assess whether it has complied with its obligations And what else is the D.A.'s office for? May I remind you that some... I don't know this case, I don't really know it, but I heard here in the courtroom that some of the proceedings are still going on. Well, that's not what the courts are for. And perhaps 3 processes are already running in this area. You're not correcting me, which is 3. What's next? Let's let these bodies work. Let us not influence their work too violently, let us not remind ourselves, because we have no competence in this matter. Incidentally, the authors of this draft resolution state that I asked about it They were aware from the beginning that the Senate's legal capacity was limited. Then why did they undertake tasks that may not have surpassed them as much as it is not effective? To influence the courts, influence the D.A.'s office? I don't know what it's for, I really don't know what the purpose was, maybe every person in this group is different. But one goal will be as if it were effectively achieved by this discussion. It's not that line. It's that discussion. I would propose to you who listen to us to remember what the threads of this discussion were, because there was also the purpose of this resolution. It's just how it's said nicely, politicising, although I have a much worse term, a noun, for what happened here just now, or actually happened earlier, for this discussion not about the substance... Well, some of the people spoke substantively, but the part was to hit the government, as well as the Senators of the PiS. Because some of them weren't even senators when it happened, they were guilty of God's spirit. I would like to remind you that the scandal has yet to begin with the rule of law. But I'm not gonna rub it in your face... [[The voice from the room: Yeah, but I was just...]] At least I already did. It wasn't fair, I can admit it. But I want you to admit that this was all about hitting the government. Well, if you don't have any other methods, And that's preying on human harm. You should talk about those problems that are perhaps more common and for which the government is responsible. [[It's a yeast.]] Well, well, well. May I? Yes, you can. Do... You've got most of it in the Senate. Come on, let's have a discussion about the cost. We'll talk in a fair way. Let's invite the professionals to this. Why not? [[I'd love to.]] But I can't hear you here... Now this proposal has come to light. The idea was to get a little bit warmed up with human harm, achieve a political goal. Because once again I say: you will be able to see what the effect of this resolution is. Time will tell. Not me, not another person, not another institution. Time will explain. And that's why we didn't take part in this team's work. Why? Because by definition, this job was inefficient. As I say, the motivations for participation in this particular people may have been different, but the political motivation clearly indicates the tone of this discussion. This is a phenomenon in itself, apart from the scandal, except for the text of this resolution. What were you talking about during this discussion? What effect is this discussion supposed to have, especially for the victims, this is a large group of people, as well as those who listen out of curiosity, with boredom perhaps... Those who participate in this discussion as observers... What was she going to do? Well, that's the effect that you have at first sight: the evil government of the PiS has led to an issue. In part, it's also supposed to cover this famous... well, these pictures, like the civil platform officers pulling an OLT Express plane. And Amber Gold. Here even one of the previous speakers threw away the subconscious instead of talking about the GetBack affair, he was talking about Amber Gold. That also has a purpose, of course. Yeah, but it doesn't work for those who get hurt. That is why I asked very carefully about the issue of changes in the law. Because there are some things that can't be withdrawn, and unfortunately time is over, but we can change the law in the future. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come You have so many different initiatives. It will be harder for us if we have the wrong will to withdraw from considering an initiative that is clearly beneficial in protecting the average snitch from those who want to exploit his naivety and take away his money. We will certainly support such changes, but not this empty-mouthed one, not that you are trying, as I said, to add to the government, to point out that it is evil. This isn't the way. How much? We started at 10:00. It's the 13th. Three hours of foaming. The result will be zero. Now you can say that, say that I was wrong. Time will tell. Here I address those who lost their savings in the GetBack event, sometimes their entire lives. Time will tell who was right. Whether these institutions, which, within the framework of their responsibilities and competences, try to do their utmost to explain the matter, punish the guilty and collect the money, let us speak directly or the authors of such propaganda texts. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u112	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator Czerwiński concluded his speech with the words "Time will show." Time has already shown. That's the problem. It's been a long time, and the results are as discussed here. And I have to say, however, I saw a difference between Senator Piecha's speeches, which somehow, with some difficulty, but came up against some proposals here, saw the need for action in this regard, and the appearance of Senator Czerwiński, who, I get the impression, probably completely forgot about the text of this resolution. Not to mention... well, he listened because he was sitting here all the time, but I think... sorry, Mr. Senator, but I think you listened without understanding what was said here. [[Talk about yourself, leave the others alone.]] Okay. Well... [[Mathematician, science mind.]] Well, we're both from the same group, but I'm sorry to say... [[Younger...]] [[But I would very much ask that the other senators...]] I'm sorry to say... [[I would very much ask that other senators do not engage in such conversations.]] I'm sorry to say that... well, if that statement offended you, then somehow you had your ears closed to arguments. After all, the point is not that there are courts, prosecutors, etc., because it is said in this resolution, but that this affair happened not only because there were frauds who caused it, but also because it did not work or there were mechanisms that should have strangled it in the bud. And those points here are... Is that something to be reminded of? The main point is that the supervision of the Financial Supervision Commission was insufficient, that the Ministry of Finance delayed the implementation of the MiFID Directive, that the State did not provide institutional assistance to the victims and made it difficult for the victims to pursue subsequent claims and finally that legal changes are necessary and there are concrete demands. In this resolution, the Senate addresses the President of the Council of Ministers and addresses the Sejm. Law changes should primarily be made by the government. First of all. If you're asking what changes are involved, it's said here that the committee has prepared them. It's not like we're gonna put all the proposals here. They're on the committee file. There's a whole list of proposals that should be implemented. Of course, if the government doesn't take care of it, we'll probably try, it's pretty clear, but first of all the government should. So in the end... Here were thanks to the Supreme Board of Control, well, she did her job for committee members. I want to thank Senator Blackbay... [[Applause]] ...who was the initiator, who, in spite of various difficulties, led this committee very efficiently, very reliably and prepared very reliable material. This is a good senate job. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I wanted to say a little harder, but after the warm words of Senator Marek Borowski, all I have to say is gentle and pleasant. Thank you for your appreciation. However, I would like to correct a few things, as you have said in the Law and Justice. Senator Piecha... Mr. Senator, I have said this and I am stressing this once again: the element of education is and must be an important element, and here we agree. But the education element is insufficient for a system that is not controlled by the state and cheaters can act as they wish. Don't blame me... 'Cause that's how I felt when you said it, 'cause it's the ones who did the investment who bought those bonds. I'm the one who's gonna let you read the list of people who write how they've been manipulated. It's called misselling, i.e. cheating to buy values, bonds, etc. It was a perficious lace job on people who had confidence in the state system. [[To the bank.]] It's for you. [[To that bank.]] Okay, to that bank. Fine, I won't argue with you. To that bank. And the bank represents the Polish state as well. [[No...]] Okay, let's leave it. They had confidence. And education alone isn't enough. We say that many countries in Europe and the world, keeping up with what is called crime in white collars, change their laws. And it's not like that, Mr. Senator Czerwinski, as you say, let them work, let them do it, and you stay out of it. We know the saying: you took the money, you got the money, you stay out of what we want to do. Oh, no, no. Then it's not a country... This is a country owned by someone out there. I'm not gonna call him And we don't want that kind of country. We want a country in which the institutions of the state do not work for a given political group, but act for the citizens, Poles who are moving and to be protected in this financial market. The NIK report and all other findings clearly state that the Polish state, as Americans say, is at the moment a loser state because it is possible to be played by people who have set themselves the goal of pulling out money. As for the voidness of the draft of this resolution, I would like to say, as one of its authors, that I would find more empty elements in this room, but for various reasons I will not say, how many elements is this collection. I'm just gonna say that I'm sure there's an empty harvest in this room. And now concerning these words: by their fruits we shall know them. More than 100, perhaps 114 billings were submitted by the Senate. Most of them are in the freezer. That's the efficiency of the Senate's work. Once again, I will make it clear: we will submit all these draft laws to the High House with or without you. Welcome, take part in this work Not only as critics, but also those who create the law. It would be even better if you were able to get government representatives to work on this team so that we could create this law together. And it's gonna be a test. I will no longer refer to the appeal to the victims, the assistance... We'll see how we work on the bill. And a word at the end. You mentioned here that the beginning of the issue of GetBack was during the reign of the Civic Platform. I'm the one who's gonna give you the schedule that NIK set up. In 2012, GetBack was registered with the KRS. Right? Well, if that's the beginning of a scandal... The Controllers clearly indicate that GetBack in 2014, at the end of the year, had liabilities resulting from the issuance of debt bonds at the level of PLN 127 million. And did you know that when you took over, the obligations arising from the sale of bonds increased from 2015 until between 2018 and 2019 to 3 billion? And that's the... During this short period, the money was drawn out of the citizens' pockets, which then, to put it mildly, disappeared. And it was done by certain people... [[Timer signal]] ...with no response from the institutions, from the government of the Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u116	Thank you very much, Senator. For the sake of order, I would like to inform you that the following senators have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes: Alexander Szwed, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the draft resolution. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Act amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 739 and the report of the Commission In print No 739 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u117	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! Report of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 9 June 2022. During the discussion there were 2 proposals, there was a minority request. The Commission voted on the proposal as far as possible, to adopt a law without amendments, and this proposal was given a majority. The purpose of the bill. The draft law amending the Law on Geological and Mining Law, the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws provides for the abolition in the Act of 9 June 2011. The Geological and Mining Law of the Mining Supervisory Authority of the Director of the Specialist Mining Authority and the liquidation of the Specialist Mining Authority and the addition in the Act of 17 December 1998, hereinafter referred to as the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund, provisions containing the definitions of explorers, mines and ancestors. According to Art. Article 16 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 7 geological and mining law The Minister responsible for the management of fossil deposits by regulation shall establish and abolish district mining offices, specifying their name, location and local jurisdiction, guided by the needs of rationalising the operation of mining supervisory authorities. In the case of the Specialist Mining Authority, these issues are covered in the relevant article. The seat of the Specialist Mining Office is the city of Katowice. The Director of the Specialist Mining Authority shall be the first-instance mining supervisory authority for underground mining plants relevant in kind in matters 6 points are listed here. The changing organisation of underground mining plants resulting from the decommissioning of mines, as well as the merger of mines, affects the number of facilities under the supervision and control of the Director of the Specialist Mining Authority. This translates directly into the non-use of the organizational and personnel resources of the Specialist Mining Authority. 31 employees work at the Specialist Mining Office at the moment. In view of the facts, it is appropriate to optimise the organisation of mining supervisory authorities by transferring the powers of the Director of the SUG to the President of the Higher Mining Authority. To date, employees employed in the Specialist Mining Office, in the number of sixteen, will become employees of the Higher Mining Office. There will be a department created and the director of the Specialist Mining Office will be the director there. The local jurisdiction of the director of the SUG covers the territory of the whole country, as well as the local jurisdiction of the president of the WUG. And the president of the WUG is the first instance mining supervisory authority in those matters that the SUG oversees. Another problem is related to the concept of an ancestor and the concept of an explorer, and consequently also Work on discovery or in the ancestor and other ancestral works. This already applies to the Social Insurance Fund pension law. This is a problem. This problem is due to the fact that there are many judgments handed down by the courts in mining pensions cases, where the definition of discovery, mine and ancestor is interpreted differently. If we sort this out somehow, the court will no longer have those doubts. The link in the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act to the concept of a mining plant will simplify the ruling in mining pensions cases, since the establishment's boundaries will not be recognised by the pension authority or courts, but will be based on defined concepts and evidence in the form of traffic plans for mining plants which clearly represent these boundaries. The definition in the FUS Pension Act of the concept of "foreman" is intended to clearly identify those parts of the mining excavation in which the work of fossil, major or accompanying is carried out, and overlay, which is also taken off the so-called. the pre-field of excavation, as well as parts of the excavations located outside the excavation site in which the excavation body is formed. This definition corresponds to the definition of mining works as defined in Article. 6 mining and geological law, also takes into account the degree of risks occurring at workplaces in these places, including in particular landslides and water hazards occurring at the dump. And it's pretty much over. The law is compatible with European law. The proposed changes will not affect the small and medium-sized enterprises sector. The Act does not require the presentation to the competent authorities and institutions of the European Union and will enter into force 3 months after the date of publication. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u118	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Adam Szejnfeld, to present a proposal from the minority committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u119	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I inform the High House that together with Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, we have submitted minority applications. They relate to the Law on Art. 39 (2), Article 4 (1) (b) and (c) 50c. Point 1 (4) and paragraph 1. Point 1 and Article 2. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 point 4, where we propose to delete the return on the explorer. In turn, in the article. Point 1, i.e. Article. 50ba, point 2 must be deleted. What is it? Namely, in mines there are employed workers who do not always carry out their tasks in mines on the ancestor. These are works that relate to, for example, mining mining, or works on loading and transport of precious goods. In such situations, the employee works in excavation, but also in transport, so in part outside the excavation. Well, in all these cases, if I remember correctly, there were no problems until 2016. These workers were treated the same way as all the other mine workers. Since 2016, after the change... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator. I'd ask you to keep your conversations quiet, because it's already starting to be... that's very disturbing to the senator.]] Thank you very much. After the change of interpretation of the Social Insurance Institution, doubts arose. These cases were also dealt with in court, as the rapporteur has already said. We are convinced that all those standards that were in force until that year I mean those decisions that recognised the work of those people I mentioned were right, so we want these provisions to be kept in force so de facto. They should not be changed in such a way that these workers are not considered to be mining workers. They also need an increased conversion rate for the calculation of pension entitlements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? [[Voice from the room: No.]] No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Piotr Pyzik: Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, all the changes have been presented, so here we don't...]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, however, senators may submit no longer than a minute of query to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Do any of you senators have that question? No. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld. [[Mr Marshal, it seems to me that in the rapporteur's speeches we have made this law sufficiently in depth, so I will give up my speech.]] Thank you, Senator. Then I must inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the speech to the minutes was made by Alexander Swed. [[It's a surprise. Surprise.]] Guess what. As the list of speakers has been exhausted, the discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. And we begin to consider item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Company (Polish State Railways). The text of the Act is contained in print No 735 and the report of the Commission In print No 735 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u121	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Ministers! It has come to me to present, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, a law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State-owned company, the Polish State Railways. The Act on the amendment of the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises of the Polish State Railways, adopted by the Sejm on 9 June 2020, contains amendments to the Act of 8 September 2000 on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises of the Polish State Railways. According to the justification for the bill, its aim is to improve the transfer of Polish Railway Lines to PKP by the Polish Railways State Property Components which are necessary for the operation of railway infrastructure management activities, including through the transfer of organized parts of the company, and in particular railway real estate located until 2000 in the ownership of the state-owned PKP company, and currently In the insertion of PKP SA. In addition, the second element that is addressed in this law is the increase of the envelope of the Local and Regional Railway Infrastructure Supplementary Programme from the recapitalisation of Polish railway lines. Previous values transferred to PKP PLK, PLK SA of treasury securities intended to increase the share capital of PLK allowed the execution of a limited number of projects in relation to the existing demand reported by local authorities, in particular in some regions of Poland. The Act not only increases the amount and value of the papers, but also extends the scope of the time possibilities of their transfer to the Polish Railway Lines. The current law provided that the changes would be until 2024 that this would be the last year of the transfer of treasury securities. Today, the last year is to be 2027. The Act shall enter into force 14 days after the notification. I would like to say that the committee meeting took place on 28 June and the committee unanimously adopted the law without any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. No such questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Nevertheless, the senators may now submit questions to the representative of the government relating to the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to take such a question? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Aleksander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Stanisław Lamczyk... [[Voice from the room: I think it's for discussion...]] ...and Adam Szejnfeld. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk for discussion. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u123	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! On this occasion I would like to discuss some threads about the whole of the KPK, which was implemented, and railway investments. There is a time to summarize a certain stage and I would like to pass some reflections to the Ministry. First of all, I will say that for the first time, if you look at historically, such funds have been transferred to railway investments. It took a lot of preparation. However, it must be said that from the beginning the problem was that transport plans were missing, especially for passenger railways. The second point is that for freight railways it was also missing the definition of a network of railway terminals. That's the first thing that's going on. Nor could the objectives pursued for such investments be defined. The aim is, for example, to increase the speed on a given section, as well as to transport the goods concerned at a competitive time at a competitive price. These are the elements that were missing. The KPK has changed many times, prices have been conquered. It has to be said that many factors have affected this. One of the factors is that tenders were not well prepared. This is evidenced by, among others, the fact. what was happening on the market, where executive companies tried to cede risks. This was the case, for example, in the case of investments in the port of Gdynia, where the official transmission became such that the documentation was wrongly done and the investor who won the tender would not risk, so he assumed a hill, you could say colloquially, in the amount of about PLN 1 billion. These investments are generally difficult investments, but they were also poorly prepared. There were a lot of questions about the tenders themselves, and it is no secret that for some tenders the number of questions reached 500. The same problems were experienced by the SKO, which, as they were talking to them, have repeatedly complained about the lack of dialogue. That's what affected prices. The easiest way to spend money is to achieve the goal, i.e. to make the investments that were shown in the KPK... I am curious myself what percentage of the first KPK will be made. According to the press, about 20%, that's very little. I would also like to say that feasibility studies, which were, on several occasions, very different in terms of prices which were after tenders. It says in the tender specifications... In the contracts there were contractual penalties which did not deprive the Contracting Authority of the right to investigate on a general basis compensation exceeding the amount of reserved contractual penalties, including those resulting from the loss of funding under funds originating in the European Union where the loss of this funding occurred for reasons attributable to the contractor. This provision also aroused opposition from companies, builders, in particular because of the EU grant It reached 85% many times. And no one wanted to bear those costs. And that's what led to the fact that these investments were very, very expensive investments. Besides, the market was hoping that there would be rail innovation here, at least in rail control, because right now, As we know, this control is Atlas and Bombardier. But you could say that there was time for us to take over these keys to control and so that we could, like other respectable countries, get through our scientists, our universities to the national control system. And right now it's a very big problem. I would also like to present to you the honesty pact. As we know, the Batory Foundation, which controlled many infrastructure investments in the European Union, controlled the railway line in Poland, which was modernised for 6 years, namely the Częstochowa line. . Zawiercie. And I would like to say that here in the report, there are also embarrassing conclusions in the final conclusions, e.g. such that in the strategic planning of railway investments, PLK may and should announce a tender plan for a longer period than 1 year. That's one of those conclusions. And that has a justification, a great importance e.g. for executive companies that could better prepare for the implementation of investment tasks and manage their own resources rationally. That's one such conclusion. The second conclusion is that there was no monitoring of the risk of price growth. This is very important in Polish Railway Lines for investments, it is important to keep this monitoring up-to-date through contracts, monitor the increase in prices of both works, services and materials, etc. In this report, in the conclusions of the Batory Foundation, there was also a lack of access to information about public procurement. There were also a lot of comments on this report from the Batory Foundation. After analysing all these investments, it comes to the conclusion that you could have done more, you could have done faster, you could have done cheaper. Well, a lot of mistakes have been made, but of those mistakes. You have to draw conclusions for the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u124	Thank you very much, Senator. The discussion is closed. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Adam Szejnfeld and Władysław Komarnicki made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. Would a government representative still like to speak? You're welcome, Minister Marek Grabierczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u125	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to reply to the senator's statement that a feasibility study is first carried out in the context of the implementation of the investment, followed by investment costs, and on this basis tenders are announced, so there is no other way to estimate the prices. This mechanism was adopted in the Ministry's work because an expert team was set up to respond to all kinds of problems or sector inquiries. As a last resort, KP rose from 67 billion to 76 billion. So we responded very actively to all the needs of the market. And what's happening now with the material situation has surprised everyone. But I think we're gonna solve this problem, too, because we're already seeing price stability. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u126	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and the Maritime Administration. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u127	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Representatives of the Government! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, which was sitting at its meeting on 28 June, I present a report on the procedure for amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration. The Act was adopted by the Sejm on 9 June. 451 votes in favour, 2 votes against, no one abstained. During the committee's proceedings was attended by Director Paweł Krężel, Deputy Director of the Department of Maritime Affairs at the Ministry of Infrastructure, who presented the bill adopted by the Sejm. After a brief discussion, in which two more specific amendments were proposed by the legislator Senator Artur Dunin and a representative of the Polish Wind Energy Association also spoke in the discussion. The committee has adopted the law. There were five votes in favour of the amendments and five votes in favour of the whole bill. I would like to say that the Committee on Infrastructure has only 8 members, hence the number of senators voting was not large. Its purpose is to ensure safety during construction and operation in the Polish exclusive economic zone of the Baltic Sea offshore wind farm and a combination of offshore power extraction equipment to a location of ownership, hereinafter referred to as the unit of equipment. To this end, this Act amends the Law of 18 August 2011 on maritime safety as regards the supervision of the design, construction and operation of the offshore wind farm and the assembly of equipment. I will present the detailed arrangements provided for in the Maritime Safety Law. The offshore wind farm and a combination of power extraction equipment will have to obtain certificates confirming compliance with construction safety requirements and construction requirements in terms of strength, load capacity and stability, fire safety, safety of use, environmental protection and operating conditions suitable for the use of various types of equipment and structures or installations included in the offshore wind farm. The certificates will be issued before construction begins, the certificate of design conformity, after construction is completed the certificate of entry into service, as well as during operation the certificate of safety of operation renewed once every 5 years. The certification and surveillance tasks of offshore wind farms shall be carried out by organisations accredited in accordance with PN-EN ISO/IEC 17065 or by a Polish standard replacing it, which may be authorised to carry out those tasks by means of an administrative decision by the Minister responsible for maritime affairs. The authorisation will require documentation of the relevant accreditation and experience in the assessment of technical documentation and the supervision of the construction, reconstruction or operation of structures located at sea, as well as the presentation of the provisions of the recognised organisation setting out the requirements necessary for the issuing of the relevant certificates and the description of the procedures for carrying out supervisory activities in order to comply with the requirements laid down in the certificates issued. During the committee meeting, we learned that certification in the world is not mandatory, but for security reasons, most operators undertake such certification. Amendments to the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration. The necessary formal requirement for the application for a location permit for a power extraction unit shall be to attach to the application the originals or certified copies of the initial conditions of connection, either the connection conditions, or the contracts or contracts for connection to the transmission or distribution network for the offshore wind farm from which the power will be derived by means of the power discharge unit or its components covered by the application. Currently, applications for export cable licences for offshore wind farms are submitted at locations that lead to areas that will only potentially be covered by authorisations for offshore wind farms. The certificate of design conformity is to be issued indefinitely, the certificate of entry into service is to be issued for a period of not more than 5 years and the certificate of operational safety is to be issued for a period of not more than 5 years and will require renewal no later than 3 months before the expiry date of the certificate of operation. The Commission proposes to adopt this non-controversial law, which was, as I said, adopted by the Sejm on 9 June this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u128	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would a government representative like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] No. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Any of you... You're welcome, Senator. Mr. Senator Gromek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u129	That's two questions, although I'd like to run these discussions again, but I don't want to prolong... So these two questions... And even as a Senator of the Republic of Poland living in the Central Pomerania, where these investments will be carried out, I will tell it to be known that I am behind wind farms at sea. But I have these questions about this. What solutions will be at the stage of obtaining the so-called. the initial conditions for connection to the transmission or distribution network for offshore wind power stations in relation to the landscape impact and the neighbourhood of the transmission infrastructure? Second: why is the only area of location of the IMF on the western side not included in investment plans or at least conceptual Polish Power Networks, including HVDC? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u130	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister? You may come from a place, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, these questions should be addressed to the Minister of the Environment. However, in the course of obtaining a building permit, i.e. authorisation, all conditions should be met, both environmental and related to the building permit and the requirements of the building law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u132	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, a quick question. The transitional provisions set a 30-day deadline from the date of the entry into force of the Act and this deadline is also short, 14 days. To complement the documentation by the applicants and these proceedings have not yet been completed. Isn't this term too short? Because maybe this supplement will take a long time, some kind of arrangement, etc.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u134	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u135	This is set out in the Regulation, which has been widely consulted. It seems that the 14-day deadline is sufficient and we can see that operators or developers do not comment on it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u136	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u137	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said at the question stage, a very important security not only for the tourism industry but also for the fishing industry... The last meeting showed that Polish fishermen are concerned about the construction of these wind farms. It's about fishing. They even say that the fish that are in the Baltic Sea will soon only be seen in pictures in books. That is why it is very important to refine this design in maritime areas, including energy transmission infrastructure, so as not to disturb the environmental situation of the marine environment, but also not to harm our most important tourism industry, which can thus change very much. As I said in my question to the rulers... I will address these two questions to the minister who is responsible for this information, and I will expect the Minister to answer. Once again, I would like to point out that we are very much in favour of the construction of wind farms, so that as much energy as possible from RES is delivered to Poland. There is a chance that in the coming years we can over 50% energy in this way gain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u139	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I too would very much like to see electricity from farms located on the Baltic Sea as soon as possible sail to Poland and so that Poles have a chance at cheaper electricity. But this bill is really just going to extend the decision-making process, not shorten it. These are additional arrangements, additional documentation Therefore, it is unlikely that this will be faster. It's more likely that it'll be later, so... I didn't ask any questions because I want it all to sound like one big package. I hope the Minister will respond to this at the end. I would like the Minister to determine by what date, in his assessment, we really have a chance to get electricity from the Baltic Sea to Poland. The government's programme for Polish energy by 2040 predicts that this current will flow from 2026. We are in 2022 and in my opinion there is no chance that within 4 years we will realize these projects, especially since we do not have an assembly port and we will not have it by 2026. There is nothing to suggest that the Minister responsible for maritime affairs will ensure that an assembly port is in place in Poland. We hear all kinds of announcements, but apart from words nothing real happens. It was supposed to be Gdynia, but it's not Gdynia anymore. Gdansk, Gdansk, Gdansk, Gdansk, Gdansk, Gdansk, Gdansk, Gdansk, Gdansk, Gdansk, Gdansk, Now I hear Orlen's got a cut in the pighouse. And at the end of the millions, billions of zlotys will sail to Danish or German ports and wind farms will be built there. I would like to say that Mr Gróbaryczyk and the Government of PiS are entirely responsible for this. Minister, you have to take responsibility. You have to learn that. Your full responsibility, first of all... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But you will answer immediately, I hope, when the assembly port in Poland will be and which ports will be serviced. So far, all indications are that it's going to be the Head. I'm the one asking: when will it be upgraded, what money will be modernised there? And from what other potential service ports? Because there's nothing going on there either, Minister, nothing. The declarations, the words, the words, you're great at that. Parole, parole, parole and nothing else, zero. I hope the Minister will answer right away. I will add that on this basis we will be able to really determine when really, really, wind farms will be built in Poland. Minister, you answer on behalf of the government. You can't say it's not me, it's the Minister of Environment and Climate. If you're here, you should be prepared. And if you're not prepared... Well, that's the picture about the government we're gonna have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz, Maciej Łuczak and Adam Szejnfeld made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative like to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: From here?]] Yes. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u141	Thank you very much. Of course, Senator Gawłowski's rhetoric is widely known, and I will not refer to it. But I would like to confirm that 2026 is the year of the first wind farms, i.e. the start of the transmission of energy from wind energy, and the installation port that is being implemented will also be prepared for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law. Water Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 740 and the report of the committee In print No 740 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Infrastructure, the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u143	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the report mentioned by your Marshal 4 of the committee, perhaps for the first time this is a report of as many as 4 joint committees. On 9 June 2022, the Law amending the Law on Water Law and certain other laws adopted by the Sejm. On 10 June 2022, the Senate Marshal sent the bill to the abovementioned committees. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 28 June 2022, the committees shall submit: The High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution. The Act amending the Law on Water Law and certain other laws aims primarily at adapting Polish legislation to the requirements of the Directive of 21 May 1991 on urban waste water treatment, in particular by introducing mobilisation and sanctioning mechanisms relating to the monitoring and control of individual waste water treatment systems included in the National Plan for Reconstruction and Reinforcing Immunity in the framework of the reform of "Support for sustainable water and sewage management in rural areas." The amendments to the Law on Cleanliness and Ordering in Municipalities and in the Law on collective water supply and collective waste water discharge are primarily aimed at: implementing a milestone relating to the monitoring and control of individual waste water treatment systems; adapting the provisions of national law to the requirements of the 1991 Directive; clarifying procedures for the designation, modification or disposal of agglomerations; clarifying the procedure for the preparation of a national waste water treatment programme; introducing administrative fines for infringements of agglomerations' obligations to comply with the requirements of the Directive; clarifying the obligations of municipalities in relation to the management of liquid waste water; clarifying the scope of the multiannual plan for the development and modernisation of sewage treatment and transport systems; and the procedures for its adoption. In addition, on 30 October 2020, the European Commission made formal allegations against the Republic of Poland in connection with the incorrect transposition of part of the provisions of the 2006 Directive. the European Parliament and the Council concerning bathing water quality management and repealing Directive 76/160/EEC, indicating inter alia: to incorrect transposition of the provisions of the Directive. In the Seym, 429 Members voted in favour of the bill, 7 against, 11 abstentions. The Act aroused a lively discussion in which Senators Gawłowski, Jazłowiecka, Rotnicka, Tyszkiewicz, Skurkiewicz, Kochan, Gromek, Pęcherz, as well as representatives of the Polish Waterworks Chamber took the floor. The amendments proposed by the Senate's Legislative Office were taken over by Senator Gawłowski, and the amendments proposed by the representatives of the Polish Waterworks Chamber were taken over by Senators Rotnicka and Pęcherz. All the amendments in the vote received a majority and the whole law was adopted together with the amendments. Only a few more comments on the discussion, which really focused on the problems connected with the need to implement large water and sewage investments, while on the other hand the need to agree investment plans, agglomeration areas, tariffs with Polish Waters, and what was pointed out is not an easy process at all. On behalf of the 4 Joint Committees, I ask the High House to adopt this law together with the amendments. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u144	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Marek Grybarczyk: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u145	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will no longer address the Minister because my rhetoric is widely known. But since he doesn't answer the substantive questions, he only allows himself to be maliced, I would like to remind you that you are here as a civil servant, a high-ranking official, and you have a duty to answer these questions, not to do grace. You're mistaken, Minister. That's all. But I'm not asking you any more, because you're really proving, like most of this office, that you don't have any substantive knowledge. You haven't been able to answer a simple question a moment ago, and now I won't be asking you any questions either. I am obliged to present to you, the High House, a timetable resulting from events in the past, because it is important that we all know what has been happening all these years. Indeed, before 2004 Polish negotiators on Poland's accession to the European Union assumed too optimisticly that ordering the water and sewage economy by 2015 would cost about PLN 12 billion. We've spent about 40 billion PLN by then, I don't remember exactly how much I don't want to shoot anymore, but really much more than the negotiators predicted it would be released by 2015. On the way, in 2005, 2006 there was such a widespread conviction that all those who wanted to receive funding were promoted. In some part of it, this thesis is true. From EU funds for the construction of a system for the collection of waste water and waste water treatment, they must be placed in water and sewage agglomerations. As a result, quite commonly even municipalities with a very large dispersion, municipalities where single houses functioned, were included in water and sewage agglomerations. By all means, if the proposals were properly prepared, even with restrictions which resulted from the provisions of the EU funding system itself, the restrictions resulting from population density per kilometre of transmission network, these municipalities were potentially supported, but not all. And, of course, all of this increased the total expenditure on water and sewage-related investments. As I said, it was actually 40 billion PLN by 2015, much more than everyone expected. And this huge investment boom in the water and sewage economy fell in 2007 and 2015 is now slowing down these investments, but it is slowing down for a number of reasons. One of those reasons... It is not even EU funds, because in the new, next perspective, the one that started in 2013, it was written down myself. In particular, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market. But then it turned out that, first of all, after changes to the rules that the PiS government introduced in 2016 and caused the relaxation of regulations related to water and storm agglomerations... So there's this thesis again: you don't have to cross out, you can stay in these water and sewage agglomerations, there's space for you, don't worry about it, we won't hurt you. It was 2016 or 2017, I don't remember dates anymore. Senator Skurkiewicz reminded me of this discussion yesterday or the day before yesterday in the Sejm because we actually had this discussion at that time. And today, after many years, the PiS government is coming back and saying: Jesus, Jesus, we have a problem, Houston, we have a problem, punishment is threatening us! Seven years of deep sleep... On the way there appeared a new institution, a state company of Polish Waters, which took over all tasks related to water management, broadly understood, outside the water and sewage economy itself, but this institution was given a special role: tariffing related to water prices and sewage prices. And this tariff is so set today that essentially local governments or companies of the State Treasury that carry out tasks arising from the water and sewage economy are no longer able to carry out these projects, even from depreciation, which appears there. The largest company which operates in the water and sewage economy, or actually water, because less sewage, is a company operating in Silesia, today administered, managed by and under the full control of the people of PiS, has several hundred million zloty of revenue. It works in a simple system: it collects and sells water from the lake in Goczalkowice, actually from an artificial tank, and distributes it in Silesia. And that's where the big dividends are paid by the marshal. That's what I'm saying to the president in case he ever wanted to use that argument in his life, a terrible argument for you, because that's where you should start if you didn't control it. In the rest of the section on sewage management, unfortunately underpriced tariffs mean that companies do not have money to invest. And it doesn't matter who the municipality is in charge, whether it's the mayor, the president of the Platform, the PiS, the PSL, or maybe the partyless, all of them in exactly the same situation, all of them without exception. Bad politics makes them without money. And yet, as we impose on it, actions that concern the reduction of revenue in some of the local government's own income, especially in the area of PIT, it will turn out that the local authorities today are not really able to do anything in this part anymore. I'm just saying this to make it clear that when you have a policy, you need to know what the end is. Today, when the investment process in the water and sewage economy has stopped, through tariff policy, through taxation policies in local governments, when action on water and sewage agglomerations has already taken place in 2016, the PiS government has led to the situation that we are facing the financial penalties imposed by the European Commission. Don't look for any other guilty people, fight deep and hard in your chest. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u146	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Janusz Bubbler. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I will give my speech to the minutes for a limited period of time.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u147	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I must speak in connection with the law and in connection with the article. 3 which amends Article. 21. In short: this applies, in general, to the imposition by the Waters of Polish tariffs for water and sewage companies. As a former self-government officer, as a person who knows the whole structure of the functioning of the self-government and management of water and gas companies, I cannot accept it. Self-government, the idea of self-government is that we govern ourselves, we make our own decisions, and we are accounted for by these decisions. I'll tell you a story like that. In 2004, in my town, we tried to get EU money from the Cohesion Fund. I don't know if you remember. In the first hand we failed, in the second we succeeded, unfortunately with low funding, there was 60%. Then we managed to raise this funding a little bit, and I think it ended up at about 75%. Then, I remember, we were taught. We went to meetings, government representatives, representatives of the European Union came and said: "Beware, the Union gives money once. You have to count depreciation, you have to calculate the prices of water and waste water so that you can recreate your assets and that all of this can work. How does this apply to what has been happening since 2015, when the Polish Waters were created? By whom and on what basis have tariffs been approved since 2015? I'll give you an example of my city again. In my house, water and sewerage cost approx. 13 PLN, plus a minus. For six years, there's been no increase in the amount of water and sewage. We'd tighten our belts, we'd say, "No." It's so hard that we just can't raise the stakes because people can't stand it. And we made it together. We held out, hoping we could change those tariffs when we had to. We've lived to see inflation at 14,15%. When everything costs more, fuel costs more, gas costs more, labor costs more. And as we tried to raise the price by probably 1 gr in the case of water and 10 gr in the case of sewage, Polskie Waters did not approve our tariffs. On what grounds? Why do you want to interfere with decisions that local governments make and for which they take responsibility? We're being cleared by the locals. If someone raises the price of water too much, they're just gonna lose the election. Why do you force local governments to suffer losses? About what? Water and sewage companies do not count depreciation, do not restore their assets and are indebted because they are unable to calculate their operation in such a way as to restore their assets and to invest in the development of the company. And they just go on. I just got off the phone with the president. Only in the last few months there are 700,000 zlotys behind. They're holding back the investments, they're holding back the plans they had before. I urge you to verify the tariff approach. This is often a political issue. A good uncle comes and says, "No." We will not allow water or sewage to go down. And I would like to make it clear to you... I think you know very well that prices are different and it's not related to the fact that... there were words about someone pulling dividends from companies. Maybe there are examples somewhere in Poland, I don't question that. In 20 years, my city has never pulled a gold dividend, not even a gold dividend. You can't say that local governments are so bad because they're pulling money. The situation is different. Self-governments e.g. they introduce property and may account for it in some way with dividends, but ultimately local governments take responsibility to their residents for the quality of services and for the prices of these services. By the way, on the occasion of this revision... Of course, I'll vote for the bill because she's needed. If amendments are made, I will vote in this way, but I beg you, on behalf of the local authorities, to verify the method of tariffing, because it cannot be that someone at his discretion makes decisions and leads water and sewage companies to be on the verge of bankruptcy in a moment. No one will raise their prices on the basis of a sightseeing mishap. The government will only raise the prices if it has to do so when it no longer has to tighten its budget. I'm calling for the next amendment, perhaps, to change the law... I know it's EU law, I'm aware of that. But what's happening today is unacceptable. After 6 years of maintaining the water and sewage rates at the same level even a minimum increase in these rates makes Polskie Waters say: No, we do not approve tariffs. This is unacceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Janusz Gromek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u149	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to prolong it. I absolutely agree with the words of Stanisław Gawłowski, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Janusz Pęcherz. We local government officials, who had the company's responsibility, know what a good functioning is. On the basis of the information received yesterday, I am able to say that 70% water companies in Poland are already in debt, this year. Since 2014, the price of water has not been raised in Kołobrzeg. For 3 years there has been no judicial judgment, and Polskie Waters, which within 45 days should make decisions, have been unable to do so for several months. So that the Polish Waters are such a pest for local companies. I don't understand anything either, so the company won't be able to save it for investments or renovations. I'm laughing that the pipes are gonna be patched with stockings soon so the water or the sewers don't run away. So it is not only an appeal, but a demand that more competent, substantively prepared people work in these Polish Waters. I'm not gonna prolong it so I don't get it later, so to speak, a few bad words. But I'm finishing this, and I'm making my statements so I don't prolong it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u150	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Joanna Sekuła, Mariusz Gromko, Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska, Janusz Pęcherz and Janusz Gromek made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? He does. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u151	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to point out only to the words of Senator Gawłowski that the infringement of the EU concerns the period 2004 to 2015. Senator Gawłowski served as Vice Minister of the Environment responsible for the water and sewage management in 2007. I hear he's got nothing to blame. Well, this time, I'll congratulate you on your cheerful well-being. And yet you were chairman of the supervisory board of NFOŚ. So you had every opportunity to adapt this policy to the EU's requirements. So that a little more respect for the law, I would ask. As regards the answers to your questions about the water rate... Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you as a Pole, a citizen of our country: we have huge inflation, we have crazy prices, so do not raise water charges for your inhabitants. [[Talking in the O.R.]] This is the last piece... You don't appeal for it, you don't appeal for water prices to go up. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me, Minister...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Don't make fun of it... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Minister...]] ...because water is a common good. You're not appealing... [[You didn't understand.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Minister, thank you very much...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u152	There's one thing I'd like to draw attention to. The Minister's got the wrong place. The Minister is not at the assembly of local governments, he is in the Senate. And none of the senators here. I don't think any, even on the side of Law and Justice There's no power to raise water charges on his own. Thank you very much. I inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. I'm ordering a recess until 2.30 p.m. About an hour... [[Talking in the O.R.]] So, what time is it? [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: Until 14.45.]] By 2.45 p.m., and at 2.45 p.m., the vote will take place. [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 18 to 14 minutes 45]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u153	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. As the senators have a number of obligations outside the Parliament building for various reasons, I hope that we will have a good vote. I would remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 20, 21 and 22 July 2022. The agenda for this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. The meeting of the Environment Committee and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs took place at the end of the debate, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 743 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u154	High Senate! Today, a joint meeting was held between the Environment Committee and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. The committees have adopted 3 proposals and recommend the adoption of a law with these 3 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. Does the other Senator rapporteur, Senator Rafał Sillysmith, want to speak yet? I don't see him, so I don't think so. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, there will be a vote on the amendments tabled and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. If you release me from duty... I'm going to enumerate the amendments. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, for Senator Pupa, we'll make this exception... Already? Yeah, I can see that. Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] Amendment 2. Please turn on the machine... Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 Senators voted, 52 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 94 for, 2 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 4]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Law on special arrangements for protecting the customers of certain solid fuels in view of the situation on the market for these fuels. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments. A minority of committees have submitted proposals for amendments to the Act. All the proposals presented are contained in Senate printing No 749 A. First of all, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt a law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposals of the minority committee for amendments. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 43 for, 52 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the proposals of the minority committee. Motion number one. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 7]] Motion number two. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] Motion number three. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Attention, proposals 4, 5 and 6 must be voted in combination. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 10]] Minority application No 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 59 for, 1 against, 37 senators abstained. [[Voting No 12]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on special arrangements for the protection of customers of certain solid fuels in view of the situation on the market for these fuels. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Public Documents. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 744 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Public Documents. We are back to discussing item five of the agenda: the Social Financing Act for business ventures and assistance to borrowers. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 742 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Senator Klein?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u156	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I propose that we vote together on the amendments from 1st to 17th, from 19th to 31st and from 40rd to 43rd. These are legislative amendments, which are specific. As regards those which are of a substantive nature, I propose that they be excluded from a separate vote. It was agreed by all the members of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u157	Thank you very much. If I don't hear any objection, I'll assume the High House has accepted the proposal. So we vote block on the amendments from 1st to 17th, from nineteenth to thirty-seventh, and from forty to forty third. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] Amendment 18. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] Amendment 38. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] Amendment 39. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Will the Senators of Godyla and Piecha take a look at whether they've pressed their... Thank you very much. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Social Financing Act for business projects and assistance to borrowers. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws on the way housing programmes are financed. The Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments; Senate printing No 737 A. In the first place, we will vote on the amendments tabled and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments. Attention, the first, second and third amendments should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 21]] N.B.: Amendments 6 and 7 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Senator locksmith seems to be on his way... See if you sent the signal. We can't wait any longer. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws on the way housing programmes are financed. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law amending the Construction Law and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Infrastructure took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the subject. It is available in print No 736 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Arthur Dunin, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today was the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. The Commission recommends the adoption of the law together with amendments 2, 4, 5, 7. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u159	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak as senator? [[No, thank you very much.]] Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, there will be voting on the amendments and then a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Motion number one. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 53 for, 42 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 26]] Attention, amendments 4, 5 and 7 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Last amendment, number six. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Lamczyk, the paper later. Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 97 senators voted, 54 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 28]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senators Bogucki and Skurkiewicz vote remotely. See if the signals have been sent. Maybe they can't. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Construction Law and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Law on the Support and Rehabilitation of Minors. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 741 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The committees maintain their motion to reject the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u161	Thank you very much. Would Senator Marek Martynowski like to speak? I don't think so, because he's not available. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to reject the law and then, if the proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We proceed with the vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Kobiak, take a look at the signal. Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on support and rehabilitation of minors. We are returning to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution requesting the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 733 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Procedure before administrative courts. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding and some other laws. A meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 734 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u162	Today, the committee has gathered. The Commission proposes to vote positively on all amendments and also on the bill together with the amendments. And the amendments, and the bill were voted unanimously.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u163	Thank you very much. Does the senator, Marshal Borusewicz, still wish to speak as senator of the applicant? Thank you very much. Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, a vote will be held on the amendments tabled, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. If the committee voted unanimously, can we vote on all the amendments or not? [[Voices from the room: No, no.]] Okay. Thank you very much. So we are voting on Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 32]] N.B.: Amendments 2 and 6 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 54 for, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 33]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Jazłowicka... check the signal. Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 52 for, 1 against, 44 abstentions. [[Voting No 34]] We are now voting on Amendments 4 and 5 to be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 35]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws. We return to the discussion of item 11 of the agenda: Act on the change of the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments to Senate printing No 738 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the change of the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the findings made by the Senacki Group on matters of GETBACK SA. I would like to remind you that the committee's report on the draft resolution has been presented and that a discussion has been held. We proceed with the third reading, which will only cover the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a single draft resolution in print No 721 S. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 53 for, 43 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 38]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the findings made by the Senate Group on the matters of GETBACK SA. I congratulate Mr Czarnobay and the whole team on their useful work. [[Applause]] We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation presented a draft resolution in which it proposed the adoption of this law without amendments, while a minority of the committees submitted proposals for amendments to the Act 739 A. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments, and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the proposals of the minority committee to amend the law. We are voting on the proposal of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Ozog can't send... Please state the results of the vote. There were 98 senators voted, 37 for, 61 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we proceed to vote on the proposals made by minorities. Please note that proposals 1 and 2 must be voted in combination. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 54 for, 42 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 40]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Enterprise, Poland State Railways. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 735 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 42]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Enterprise of Poland. We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 732 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] We therefore proceed to vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and the Maritime Administration. We are returning to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law and certain other laws. The Committee on the Environment, the Committee on Infrastructure, the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs and the Committee on Local Territorial Government and State Administration presented a draft resolution in which they proposed amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 740 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Sekuła and Marshal Karczewski... Take a look, see if the signal's been sent. So is Senator Jackowski. Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 54 votes against, 43 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 46]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 53 votes for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 47]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Talking in the O.R.]] We've got a Webex malfunction. Can't we give the results? How much time do you think you need? You don't know? [[Voice from the room: 3 and 4 hours.]] I'll ask the Senior Convention to meet me in my office. I'm declaring a recess... [[Voice from the room: 10 minutes.]] Dismissed until 3:40 p.m. You're gonna signal me if it's ready. [[Adjournment from 15 minutes 27 to 15 minutes 40]] Ladies and gentlemen... There won't be, Senator, a vote on the line. Unfortunately, the Webex system doesn't work. We unanimously decided in the Seniors' Convention that we would vote because we had five amendments left to vote and nothing more, but a bill entirely with amendments, including the senators present in the Chamber. The Quorum in this matter exists, there are over 50 senators, and exactly 62. So let's continue. Amendment 3. Who's in favour? [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: No, it's counted.]] Well, the votes in the courtroom are counted. It's not just the system. This is a malfunction. Except for the Senate. The Webex system doesn't work, not because of us. Please state the results of the vote. 60 senators voted, 38 votes, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 48]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Czudowska and Senator Łyczak, if I may have a look... Please state the results of the vote. 60 senators voted, 38 votes, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 49]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 60 senators voted, 38 votes, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 50]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 60 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 51]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senators of the bladder and Ujazdowski... Please state the results of the vote. 60 senators voted, 38 votes against, 21 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 52]] And last amendment, number eight. Who's in favour? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] [[Voice from the room: It's working.]] [[Voice from the room: It works, it works.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Focus, please. Senator Kwiatkowski and Senator Rotnicka. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Please state the results of the vote. Sixty senators voted, 37 votes against, 21 against, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 53]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 60 senators voted, 47 votes against, none against, 13 abstentions. [[Voting No 54]] I would like to inform you that the agenda for the 40th Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u164	I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, which may not relate to a matter on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. Please make a statement to Senator Beata Małecka-Libera.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u165	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! It is with great concern that I am watching the epidemic in Poland as well as in the individual countries of Europe and the world. I also observe that many scientists, researchers or practitioners report that we still have a problem with morbidity, with COVID-19 infections and its mutations, but also with an increase in recent months or weeks of hospitalisation and a large number of new cases of infections. This makes us wonder if we are sure that we are prepared for this situation, the more that we all know that the holiday period, 2, 3 months, will quickly pass and during the autumn period the cross-breeding of various viral infections can become very dangerous. We can already see that in Portugal and France, the number of these hospitalizations is so large that various types of solutions are being taken, there is a more intensive sanitary regime in order to have knowledge of the spread of individual virus mutations. In Poland so far, scientists are appealing, asking the ruling team to ensure that tests are carried out to map the course of possible infections, to also carry out various types of virus sequencing, to simply have knowledge. At the same time, I am approached by ordinary citizens, people who ask me, I suspect that also doctors, also about what to do with the covid passport and what to do with the next dose of vaccine, the fourth, which should already have some recommendation, should be the answer whether they will be vaccinated or not. In order to obtain the language, I have reached the recommendations which the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers gives to the Council specially appointed for the fight against COVID-19. I saw with great disbelief that there were recommendations there, but recommendations that were completely unrelated to the case of epidemiology and COVID. The first concerns heart disease and cardiovascular disease, the second psychiatry, and the third, on 22 June, really surprised me, because it is a recommendation for a systemic reform of POZ. I'm addressing the Minister of Health here. Minister, are there two ministries, two power centers that will reform POZ? As far as I know, there is a team at the Ministry of Health who was to prepare some changes and recommendations, but at the request of the Minister of Health. However, since the Council dealing only with epidemiology and recommendations, which are intended to improve health status in the event of another wave of COVID is dealing with restructuring, since it recommends some systemic changes, it seems to me that there is currently a legal duality. Therefore, given the number of working councils, advisory teams, I call on each of these teams to focus on these tasks and on those recommendations to which they are called. I also call for the COVID-related council to issue appropriate recommendations, as it may unfortunately be too late in the autumn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u166	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor and make a statement by Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u167	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is related to the 30th anniversary of the Polish Federation of Life Defense Movements. The emergence of the Polish Federation of Movements for the Defence of Life was the result of a deep social need, in order to effectively protect the lives of conceived children and the health of their mothers. Many movements and organizations were created spontaneously, often working with the Catholic Church. Unification of movements defending women's lives, dignity and health, family rights gave them the opportunity to have a stronger social impact. A breakthrough was the invitation by the Deputy Speaker of the Senate of the Second term of office of Prof. Alicja Grześkowiak, on 23 March 1992, to the Senate meeting room, 64 representatives of Polish movements and pro-life organizations. At that time, the founding committee of the federation was set up, which developed a draft statute and an ideological declaration. In order to maintain contact with all organisations of different legal status, it has been decided that the federation will be an association of representatives representing its own organisations in order to develop joint activities, while maintaining the full subjectivity of each organisation. The founding convention took place on 21 June 1992 in the Mirror Hall of Stasica Palace in Warsaw. It was attended by 102 representatives of various movements and organizations who expressed their willingness to create a common representation called The federation included 132 representatives of various pro-life organisations with different business profiles, including among others. charity, psychological or educational aid. Today, on the occasion of the anniversary, it is important to mention hundreds of people who have worked with dedication in organizations associated with the Federation, as well as great defenders of life who have already left for the Father's House. The special patrons of the Polish Federation of Movements for the Defence of Life were St. John Paul II and Blessed John Paul II. Fr. George Popieluszko, and also sleep. Prof. Włodzimierz Fijałkowski. gynecologist obstetrician, creator of the Polish model of birth school, who has always stressed the importance of lovingly leaning over a pregnant woman and her child - Do you sleep? - I don't know. bp. Mr Stanisław Stefanek, President of the Council for The families of the Polish Episcopal Conference and a member of the Pontifical Council for the Polish Episcopal Conference. Families. It is also worth mentioning: sleep. Ms Teresa Vishovata, midwife from Białystok; sleep. Prof. Zbigniew Szymański, endocrinologist, founder of the Society of Responsible Parenthood, from Szczecin; Professor Tadeusz January, an ethics lecturer at the Catholic University of Lublin. Delegates from the Federation participated actively, among others. in the great battle for the introduction of a law protecting life in 1992. They participated in parliamentary committees and public debates, promoting a draft law on the legal protection of the life of the conceived child. A great success was the adoption of a law on family planning, protecting the majority of children at risk of abortion, which entered into force in 1993. Thus, the Act of 1956 was rejected according to the model imposed by the Soviet Union, which allowed abortion until the twelfth week of pregnancy. In 1996, the Federation campaigned to defend the law protecting life, among others. organized two great Marches of Life in Warsaw, in which about 100,000 participants from all over Poland took part. As a consequence of the decision of the Constitutional Tribunal, he considered that the Constitution of the Republic of Poland is on the basis of the general protection of the conceived life. The Federation took permanent action in the field of pro-life education. These were millions of leaflets, magazines, articles, lectures, conferences and various speeches. It had a great impact on the introduction and implementation of the subject of raising to life in the family, shaping a positive vision of sexuality in young people, which resulted in extremely strong support of Polish society, especially young people, for the protection of human life. For 25 years, Dr Paweł Wosicki of Poznań was the chairman of the Federation. The vice presidents at the time were asleep. dr ing. Antoni Zięba and Senator Antoni Szymański, who has maintained contact with the Federation until today. The Federation participates in international movements for the defence of human life, is a member of the European Federation of One of us. In 2012, the Federation was honored... I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. ...through the European Parliament, the European Citizens' Prize for Activeness giving concrete expression to the values of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. The Federation wishes to continue its cooperation with all organisations active in the field of human life protection. The Federation's agenda is well reflected in the words of the sacred memory of Prof. Włodzimierz Fijałkowski: Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u168	Thank you. Please take the floor and make a statement to Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, my statement is addressed to Mrs. Anna Moscow, Minister of Climate and Environment. In Częstochowa, Poland's Waters and the Regional Environmental Protection Directorate were granted permission to set up a fertiliser plant. There is great resistance of inhabitants and fear that Częstochowa will become a center for the conversion of harmful substances. The company has no experience. There is no entry in the KRS on waste treatment and fertiliser production. There is no suitable project, the company has not presented such a project. The company's share capital is PLN 5,000. In the event of a failure, there will be no compensation money to cover losses that may occur during the operation of such waste treatment plant. I request information and control as to whether these state institutions have given due care when granting permission to conduct such activities in the centre of Częstochowa. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u170	Thank you, Senator. Please make a statement by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u171	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's gonna be a total of three statements, but I'm gonna do my best in a telegraph shortcut... The first, addressed to the Minister of Infrastructure, concerns the construction of the S11 section from Koszalin to Bobolic and the construction of the Koszalin ring road on the S6 road. I would like to ask the Minister of Infrastructure for information on the implementation of this investment. Do the work go according to schedule? Are there difficulties in financing these projects? Finally, is there a delay, and if so, how late is it? How long will these investments be completed? And does the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways therefore carry out any activities related to negotiations with contractors, as well as negotiations on increased funding for these projects? The second statement is addressed to the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration. It concerns issuing passports in the delegation of the Voivodeship Office in Koszalin. Today, the inhabitants of Koszalin land are not even able to join the queue, because the system that operates in the voivodeship administration, the online registration to the queue throws them away, does not give them the opportunity to register at all. They may try to register only after 12 August, not register, but try to register only after 12 August. I'm asking the Minister to intervene in this matter. It is scandalous to set deadlines for people in the 21st century for when only so they can enroll in the queue and not get a passport. The third statement is addressed to the Prime Minister. At one of my previous meetings, I asked the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration, the Minister for the Administration, who is responsible for carrying out tasks related to refugees from Ukraine, and asked for information on how many offices of government administration, ministerial administration, voivodships, central offices, companies of the Treasury, companies such as Poczta Polska, i.e. entities affected by the government, they are accommodated. How many such facilities with possibility of accommodation, i.e. hotels, guest rooms, or other guesthouses exist in Poland? How many of these facilities have refugees from Ukraine been accommodated? How many are in total, of course, in individual objects? What amounts have been allocated from the State budget for this purpose? And I received an outrageous, one-handed response, informing me that there are thousands of objects in total in which the Ukrainians live. I know that, and I don't even know what you're talking about. It insults the importance of the institution, which is the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration. I therefore ask the Prime Minister again for detailed information in this regard and for information on the legal basis relating to the implementation of these tasks. On what legal basis have these persons been accommodated there in the case of commercial companies? Who and to what extent covers the cost of their accommodation? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u172	Thank you. I would like to make a statement to Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u173	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Let me make two statements. The first one is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. I have committed myself to the people that I will speak to the Prime Minister on this matter, as I will go back to this problem and ask him to deal with this issue. This is the subject of this giant investment. I am thinking of the Central Communication Port here, but what affects the inhabitants of the cities and municipalities of my district most is mostly the high-speed railroad. I will no longer mention the complexity of the construction of the Central Communication Port itself, which should be preceded by reliable, detailed analyses, calculations, as well as the expertise that is needed in the context of such huge investments and which would confirm in general the correctness of the implementation of this giant. I am talking here primarily about financial costs, but on the occasion of implementation, whether it is the Central Communication Port, whether it is the high-speed rail, we cannot forget that there are also environmental costs and huge social costs. I'm after a few meetings with locals, not just in my district. They are absolutely terrified, above all, of what can touch them, i.e. expropriations. They are also afraid that their property and all the areas that adhere to their property will lose value when the information is spread out. But their concerns are also about a new law, whose project is already after first reading in the Sejm, which concerns compensations that citizens will receive at the moment when these expropriations or displacements occur. They fear that these payments may not be as high as they expected, they may not correspond to actual, reliable valuations. Not to mention that the inhabitants of these towns and property owners live in constant uncertainty and, of course, fear for their future. And what sounds the strongest during these meetings is, of course, that there was no expert debate that these people learned nothing about the correctness of these investments. In addition, of course, it sounds very strongly that there are no meetings with residents. There were consultative meetings where there was no answer to any rational arguments or questions of the inhabitants. The State of the company that carried out these consultations was completely unprepared to answer any questions. And it rained, for example. questions about why the high-speed railroad is to pass through bedrooms, kitchens, backyards of residents, and can not follow the old railroad tracks. Of course, such questions were not answered. It's either that or it's because it's yes or it's not because it's not. The sad thing is that nobody just listens to them, doesn't want to hear their arguments and they just feel humiliated and absolutely unnecessary in this whole project. Prime Minister, of course, some citizens live in constant unrest. So there are those who know that such investments will run through their properties, but there is also a group of people who live in total ignorance because they have no such knowledge at all. Such knowledge did not reach these people and they simply do not realize that their future may be threatened in a moment. This situation is absolutely unacceptable. Therefore, at each meeting, after each meeting, I will call on the Prime Minister to take another look at the whole action on both the Central Communication Port and the High Speed Railways. The second statement is addressed to Mr Przemysław Czarnek, the Minister of Education. I was approached by the Sibirates from the Wałbrzych branch of this union, because similarly as unfortunately we all hear that it is being prepared or is already prepared a textbook for the subject of history and present, but of course they do not have, as we do, the knowledge of what it will look like and whether the topics that are important, and historical, and those that speak about the future or about the present, are included in it. They don't have that knowledge. That is why we bring together the Minister of Education and its subordinate services to include, if not included, topics related to the subject of the Eastern Golgotha, to commemorate, recall or describe all events related to human suffering in Soviet Łagras. That's why I'm asking the Minister a question. If there is such a memorial, a memory, then thank you very much, and if not, then I ask that in some way this request of a huge crowd of Sibirians be taken into account. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u174	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor and make a statement by Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u175	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, my statement is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. It concerns the electrical transformation to electroprosumerism, but above all it concerns the conference held in the Senate, the road to energy independence of Poland and the region, in which you participated Deputy Prime Minister Sasin and President Obajtek. Let me just say briefly that these gentlemen are building for us, for Poles, a monopolistic-oligarchic system which is unacceptable, which has not worked anywhere. Therefore, distributed, bottom-up energy can save Poland from high energy prices. The same problem was faced in the 1970s by the Americans, had the English, and they brought to an end the law that created such a bottom-up system. When it comes to what you are proposing to us, you can see that they only care about monopolistic approaches to the sale of fuel, energy, so that there is no competition, and they can buy themselves, because as President Obejtek said, that 120 billion can invest in renewable energy. Of course, it buys biogas plants all over Poland, but this is not the way, because the energy they want to produce is the energy way, let's say, slow, this is not the direction the European Union is aiming for. The energy system works on the interface. Former PGNiG President Kozłowski, Mr Wozniak They appeal, they say that there will be a gas regulation, that the President should immediately convene the National Security Council meeting and talk about the problems that are ahead of us in the autumn. The Germans have seen the problem, and that is why they are already talking about the tragedy that awaits them, but they also make very radical movements, above all they want the market to use as few natural persons as possible gas, finance heat pumps up to 80%, and they really succeed. Mr. Sasin was talking about full gas storage. Full gas warehouses are 3 billion m3. He also talked about Baltic Pipe. If someone is following it closely, then you can read the wording, because now it will stop bragging about this pipeline, but I have just read what it says: "Achievement of the installed capacity is an accident of several factors, especially the technical capacity of the new pipeline, the demand situation on the Polish market and a certain level of flexibility. So that this entry, in my opinion, tells me what gas problems are going to be. First of all, it must be borne in mind that the energy that Mr Obajtek and Mr Sasin are proposing is dangerous energy. This was also noticed by one of the speakers, namely Mr Andrzej Sadowski. He said that centralized is exposed to cyberattacks and an easy way to disengage. Besides, we had a cyber attack in Bełchatów, where problems have not yet been solved. I therefore call on the Prime Minister to take this problem seriously to solve problems, because in the autumn it could really be an unsolvable problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-30-senat-45-2.u176	Thank you, Senator. That's the end of the statement. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 45th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office in room 255. Forty-fifth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[Meeting adjourned at 16 minutes 13]]
