ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on Mr Rafał Bochenk, Mr Filip Kaczyński, Ms Marta Kubiak and Mr Piotr Sak to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Rafał Bochenek and Mr Piotr Sak. The minutes and the list of speakers will be led by Rafal Bochenek and Marta Kubiak. I consider the minutes of the 55th session of the Sejm to be accepted. The Committee on Petitions submitted a draft law amending the Law on Forests and the Law - Code of Offences, print No 1971. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this draft law. The competent committees have submitted a report on the government draft law amending the Water Law and certain other laws, print No 2283. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Not now, sir, just a moment. The committee responsible submitted its position on information on the activities of the National Judicial Board in 2021, in print No 2310. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point on the matter. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have a moment of silence? Members point out that they can't hear what I'm reading. [[Exactly.]] You're welcome, really. There's over 400 of us in the room, everybody's gonna say something quietly and it's gonna make a lot of noise. Thank you very much. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration, - amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 2315 and 2314 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm hear 7-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles on the committee's report on the draft law on support and rehabilitation of minors, as well as five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles in discussions on the other items on the agenda. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Senior Convention unanimously gave its opinion on the proposal to consider at its current meeting information on the regulation of the Minister of Health of 3 June 2022 amending the regulation on the detailed scope of the medical event processed in the information system and the manner and time limits for the transmission of this data to the Medical Information System, i.e. the creation of the so-called. Register of pregnancy, which was requested by the Coalition Club of the Left (New Left, Together). The agenda items of this meeting will be dealt with in accordance with the order adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm and the Seniors' Convention. Information on this matter is available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u2	I kindly inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today. - to the Secret Service, at 5 p.m. 10.30, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 10.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 10.30, - Health-- hour. 10.30, - Economy and Development - h.m. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11.30, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 12, - Digitization, Innovation and Modern Technologies - h.m. 13, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 13, - Foreign Affairs - hour 13, - Legal notice - hour. 13, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 13.30, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 2.30 p.m., - National Defense at 5 p.m. 15, - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 15, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 15, - Energy, Climate and State Assets - hour 17, - Physical Culture, Sports and Tourism - hour 17, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 17, - Health-- hour. 17, - to State Control - at 10 p.m. 5:30. At the same time, the following parliamentary teams will be held: - Parliamentary Scouting Friends Team - hour 2.30 p.m., - Parliamentary Firefighters' Team - hour. 5:30. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u3	Thank you. We have formal requests. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u4	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister! The PiS government, the Government of the United Right, is implementing a new program 5-10-15: 5 zlotys loaves of bread, 10 zlotys of fuel, 15 zlotys of food oil. [[Applause]] You've led the retirees, the pensioners, the people living in poverty to collect chrust in the woods in the autumn. Nine times the interest rate, seven percent inflation. Your Prime Minister once said you could do it. Well, you can't do it. We are counting on today, your marshal, on the Senior Convention, to extend the agenda to include information on the government's action against costs. Election conventions, demagogy, propaganda... [[Yeah, demagogy and propaganda.]] ...they won't cover the terrible reality. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u5	Thank you very much, sir, for this speech in which there was no formal proposal. Mr Tomasz Trela, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The fact that the state deceived Poles and Poles last year, saying that there will be no inflation, will be a deflation, we know. But, Prime Minister - that is your question - how could you, knowing that there would be inflation, knowing that it would be possible to make money on Treasury bonds, to buy Treasury bonds for 4600 thousand. zł (Applause) and do not inform Poles and Poles that it can be earned? How dare you even represent the Polish government... First you hid your fortune and gave it to your wife, bought a cheap share, sold it more expensive, and now you're still doing business on Treasury bonds. [[Apparently, we have a good prime minister.]] We expect and demand that you come out here now and present information when, under what conditions, under which conditions you bought the Treasury bonds. People should know that. Enough of your lies, your scams, your insults to the citizens. People have nothing to live for, and you will earn PLN 0.5 million every year. Shame. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u7	Of course, there was no formal application again. Mr Jakub Rutnicki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u8	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a formal request, with a great request to complete the agenda. I'm looking at the Prime Minister and the President here. On behalf of thousands of residents belonging to housing cooperatives, which are currently not protected by the Energy Regulatory Office. There are cooperatives in Nowy Tomyśl, in Nowa Rud and in many other places where people are treated, Prime Minister, like entrepreneurs. The rent in these cooperatives increased from PLN 700 to nearly PLN 2 000. zł. Ladies and gentlemen! There's a solution. The Civic Coalition prepared a bill, print no. 2111. This draft law has not been considered since February. These people are desperate. Mr President, they sent President Kaczyński an invitation and a letter, they sent PiS Members, PiS Members from the district do nothing. The housing cooperative also sent a letter to Prime Minister Morawiecki asking for immediate action. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We need action, there are solutions, we need to help these people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u9	Mr... Mr. President, this project... Mr Rutnicki... Mr President, I do not know - is there really nothing in the courtroom that I am saying? I wonder how we vote, how you know what to vote on. That's interesting. Mr... [[I, too, have a handwriting from the co-workers...]] Yes, sir, well... [[Please accept.]] Mr President, it's a project that's on the committee right now, isn't it? [[But unfortunately, he's not procedated. Four months...]] Mr President, I ask you if this is about this project. Yes? This project? [[Yes. This is the project that's frozen. We have to help these people.]] Good. He's not frozen, he's on the committee. Speak as it is, sir, okay? [[But there's no action, people are desperate, they're asking for help. Thousands of people in housing cooperatives. You want to help them...]] Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Mariusz Polużny. [[...help...]] [[Applause]] Thank you very much, sir. Here you go, Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On the anniversary of such an important event, we must speak here today. Gentlemen, let's count the votes; I don't think the SLD's gonna fuck up and Lech Walesa; gentlemen, you don't know how far they've come - these are your words. [[The voice from the hall: But it was the colleagues who wanted to cancel...]] And yesterday, Donald Tusk leaves and expresses his satisfaction that he was on the night shift. [[The coal is 3,000. What are you talking about?]] It welcomes the fact that there has been no vetting, which has determined communist agreements in Poland. He is pleased that the Party-Ubec nomenclature has been expropriated. Donald Tusk welcomes the entire pathology of the Third Republic of Poland, with all these gas contracts, with all these problems. That's what Donald Tusk says. And today you're saying: mirroring, gas contracts, energy. There's a first cause. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's a first cause. If you hadn't taken power then, today wouldn't be a problem. [[A voice from the hall: They have no bread and no coal!]] [[Chrust is gathering!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u11	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u12	Last sentence, Marshal. We, our environment, will be returning to this idea on June 4th...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u13	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u14	...righteous, fair, democratic Polish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u15	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska. [[Your Marshal, counterclaim. According to the regulations, I'm entitled to a counterclaim. It's against the law.]] Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. President! Prime Minister! You allow the carbon mob to flourish in Poland. Coal, which costs $1,000 in the mine. PLN, already costs 3,000 in the retail market. zł. State coal, domestic coal from the state mines that your people run. Who's letting this happen? Today, making subsidies to such a mess on the market of intermediaries who pump the price of coal will be like building a financial pyramid. Get into the coal market. We asked the Prime Minister two weeks ago to provide information on how he was going to handle the situation with domestic coal. The Member has always said that the European Union is pumping coal prices. The European Union has nothing to do with the fact that coal, which is 1 000 each. PLN in the mine, in the retail market you have to pay 3,000. zł. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Neither the Union nor Putin - you are responsible for this. You let the carbon mob bloom. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u17	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, Member. I would like the floor of Minister Anna Moscow. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: Where is the carpenter?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u18	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Russian coal does not flow to Poland and we are proud of it. [[Applause]] We've imposed sanctions. From April 16 to Poland there is no Russian coal. We're proud of it. On the other hand, with such debates as now, with those statements in the media that are full, you drive speculation, you drive panic (Motion in the Chamber, applause), you drive high prices and you encourage dishonest intermediaries to speculate. PGG is in the process of concluding new contracts with all intermediaries. These are franchise contracts guaranteeing the same price as in the PGG store. It is a very good price, the same as, according to the CUS, in 2021. The situation is under control, provided you cooperate with us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u19	Thank you, Minister. Please, Mr Krzysztof Bosak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to formally request that Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki provide the Sejm with information on what he has determined secretly with Brussels within the framework of the so-called. Milestones of the National Plan for Reconstruction. In 2020 it was announced that the government would negotiate money for the reconstruction of the Polish economy. Now we hear that in KPO there are 280 different types of so-called investments. Milestones, i.e. commitments to increase the cost of life for Poles in order to realize the madness of Eurocrats. It is not money for investment, it is not a conflict about courts - and it has been said to the public that it is being negotiated - it is not a matter covered by the Treaties. This applies to car charges, restrictions on entry for cars, increases in retirement age, changes in heat and electricity prices. Prime Minister! Please provide here information (Bingle) as you have agreed with Brussels. Why did you betray the voters? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u21	Thank you, sir. Of course, it wasn't a formal conclusion, because order was established. That concludes the formal proposals, Madam President. This is not a debate. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and certain other laws (prints No 2290 and No 2314). Before I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee, I will announce a three-minute break so that you can leave the room if you are going to the committee meeting and so that you can present the report calmly. Three minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 21 hours 10 min 23]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u22	I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government draft law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and some other laws, prints No 2290 and 2314. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee. Before you begin to present the report, I would like to ask all of you very cordially to silence the discussion or to move it out of the Parliamentary Chamber, because we would like to hear the committee report on such an important, important matter, out of respect for the Member. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government's draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and certain other laws, the Seym No 2290 printing. At its 55th meeting on 26 May this year, the Sejm sent the above draft law to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for consideration. The Board of Administration and Home Affairs, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 7 June 2022, asks the Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. At the same time, the committee shall submit two proposals for minorities, first and second, at the request of the applicants, but with such consideration that both proposals and the first and second proposals should be voted together. At the same time, I would like to present information that in the vote of the committee on this bill there were 20 votes in favour, 1 vote against, 0 abstentions. A lot of amendments, a lot of but very substantial work on this bill. And here are the words of thanks addressed to all Members in this committee for their merity, for such an element of leaning down on these matters, which are particularly important to our Ukrainian brothers, but also for the fact that we are getting some consensus here. This was evident during the work of this committee, and for this reason these words of the rapporteur should be heard here, because they succeed in these important matters, albeit not so simple, to gain this consensus. I hope it lasts as long as possible. I therefore request that, after these amendments which have been made to the committee and accepted, the Sejm adopt this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u24	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Marta Kubiak will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u25	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and certain other laws. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u26	I am so sorry, miss. Once again, I ask Members present in the Chamber to silence the discussion or move it outside the Parliamentary Chamber. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u27	On February 24, 2022, Russian troops brutally attacked Ukraine. Since that day, the Polish-Ukrainian border has exceeded over 3.5 million refugees from Ukraine. These are mainly women and children who had to escape bombardment of housing estates, schools, kindergartens and hospitals. Unfortunately, the war in Ukraine continues. In view of this situation, it is necessary to clarify and supplement the provisions of the Law of 12 March 2022 on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory. The proposed bill provides above all an appropriate standard of protection for Ukrainian citizens associated with their work in Poland. In addition, it provides solutions that will serve local governments in providing stable care for the youngest children of refugees when their parents are working. The draft law also clarifies the provisions aimed at eliminating applications and receiving benefits by Ukrainian citizens who have left Poland. Changes are also needed regarding issues related to the learning of Polish language, therefore the draft law entitles district offices to organize trainings in Polish for foreigners. In turn, the Voivodeships will have access to the register of Ukrainian citizens who have been given the number PESEL. In the current situation, it is also necessary to simplify procedures for the conversion, renovation or re-use of buildings or parts thereof held by local government units and intended for residential purposes. The provisions resulting from the amendment of the Act also extend the powers of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. The Agency will be able to accept in the form of donations, storage, issue and export to the territory of Ukraine alongside medicinal products also medical devices. The situation behind our eastern border and the provision of a security substitute for refugees we have adopted require quick and decisive solutions. Therefore, amendments to the Act are necessary and the proposed regulations should enter into force urgently. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the bill. I also submit amendments to the project on behalf of the club. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u28	Thank you very much, Member. I'm handing over the amendments. Mr Tomasz Szymański will now present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u29	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The law that we are debating today is intended to face, and is in fact dealing with problems that Ukrainians also have to deal with in Poland, Ukrainian citizens who are covered, as we know very well, by temporary protection in the territory of the Republic of Poland. It is a law which, in a consensus, has passed the parliamentary battle - yesterday's work in the committee has shown that there are important matters, there are key issues, there are priority issues. During the work of this committee, we agreed on certain things that are shore conditions, so that the stay of Ukrainians, who, once again, are subject to temporary protection in the territory of the Republic of Poland, became a competent and complete stay prepared. The Act regulates a number of things related to the labour market, with training of Ukrainian citizens, including as if it complements these staff shortages related to medical entities. It also regulates the care of children and the education of pre-school children, as well as school obligations. It also facilitates Ukraine's access to and residence in residential buildings. I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that yesterday's deliberations of the committee were conducted in a substantive manner and without elements of surprise. Minister, thank you for this. The PiS Members also, because you listened in a competent, factual manner to various voices and, most importantly, you learned from the comments that were influenced by the local government. Well, thank you for that. These were perhaps the beginnings of such a real debate with representatives of the Polish Towns Association. You have listened to the needs, the opinions of local government officials, who have written down what needs to be changed in this law, what legal solutions should be adopted, so that this law is a good law. And I'm glad that's what happened. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, there are still some things that we will be discussing, and there are still some things that need to be improved. I mean, among other things. what I mentioned yesterday in the committee, the cases concerning the teams on the issue of disability, how tasks commissioned from the government administration should be financed, the fact that this money should be made available to the district teams. We were talking about the amounts, the specific amounts calculated, which are necessary. We were talking about the amount of 500 PLN for each application being processed by the panel for judgment. This amount should be compensated by the government. We also talked about this, Minister, that we should give a chance to people who have entered the territory of the Republic of Poland legally and have a certificate of disability, and give them time, 6 months, to arrange all necessary documents so that they can stand before the team and apply for this right in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The many things we have talked about have found our recognition, our consensus. The scope of matters and matter that were raised yesterday was very wide. We still have a few things to work out, but I hope, ladies and gentlemen, that it will be just like yesterday at the committee meeting, which was an example of this agreement, of finding consensus and, above all, of listening to an extremely important social side, because it will be the law that we will adopt today that you will continue to do so. We, as agreed, will not make any amendments. Of course I guess, Minister, that there will again be serious work on this bill, which means that there will be further versions drawn up in the same spirit, in the same atmosphere, and you will be open to our good proposals, as you can see from today's example. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u30	Thank you very much. Mr Wiesław Szczepański, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u31	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Left Club, I have the honour to present our position on the government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and amending certain other laws. That's another amendment we're working on. For all we know, probably in the autumn or late summer we will have another one, because the school year will be coming and then we will know how many children will attend schools, Ukrainian children to Polish schools. As we know, from 24 February more than 3800 thousand entered Poland. Ukrainians, but out of this number only about 1,200 thousand. It reached for PESEL today. I am glad that the government, noting this problem, has taken up the problem of solving the issue of accommodation for those people who did not reach after PESEL, because this law also allows those who took in these people to pay 40 PLN. I will grieve a little Mr Szymański, but unfortunately, one vote against this law was and it was the voice of the Confederation, which I think is a notorious vote - I welcome you, Mr President - against this law. Well, you guys don't agree with these solutions. The other clubs were uniform when it came to voting. What was decided on the committee yesterday? Exactly what the Minister said earlier. An amendment has been tabled which is clear on the issue of coal purchases, however. We had in this Act a prior record that the strategic reserve agency would receive in the form of a decision from the Prime Minister a certain amount from the Fund for Local Roads, Local Roads. There was no question of return, no question of amount. The amendment, which was tabled by Mr Kaleta, which also tabled many amendments yesterday at the committee meeting and the government thanked him for these amendments, states that this amount is up to PLN 1.5 billion and at the same time should return next year. I only hope, Minister, that the funds that will be in the road fund for the year will simply be more than 1.5 billion. Also, the provisions concerning the accommodation of refugees in accommodation units which do not meet housing requirements have been amended. Yesterday, through the amendment, we stated that this would also be possible in entities with at least 50% it has a local government, whether municipal or voivodship or district. So this is also a solution that may be facing what entrepreneurs expect today, who have accepted refugees, because we know that it is coming slowly, it is almost full holiday season, and very many of these people live in holiday resorts. Today you would like to move them out of these resorts and find a place somewhere else in another accommodation, because entrepreneurs would also like to make money in another way. We reported two amendments as a club. One amendment has been taken into account by us as a minority proposal, which has not been accepted, because we agree that those who have come here should have a free opportunity to be in the Schengen area. The second concerned the issue of Ukrainian women who were raped in the territory of Ukraine, and the assistance of the prosecutor as regards the possibility of abortion. She wasn't taken into account by the state. We'll report this amendment again in a moment. On the other hand, we realise that we still need many solutions that will be implemented by the government on an ongoing basis. I am pleased that much of the things we have talked about before about social issues, educational issues and also economic issues, because we have the question of biomass, have been taken into account in this project, although we are aware that, on the occasion of this problem, the situation in Ukraine, the government is using this bill to introduce provisions that have little in common with Ukrainians. So I understand that this law also serves the government to hide in some part what is happening on the Ukrainian side, to introduce records that can follow a fast path. The only advantage of our debate today is that, from the sitting of the Sejm, where we had our first reading, it has been several days until today's debate, which, unlike other works, has allowed us to go further into this law. The Legislative Office has worked over, submitted more than 100 amendments or comments and they improve this law, do not change its substance. I hope that the entry into force of this law will solve many problems that are currently taking place and have not been resolved legally. By making this one amendment (the bell), Mr. Marshal, I would like to say that my club will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to inform the High House, present in the Chamber of Members, that our deliberations are being listened to by a group of young people who came from Brzeszcze at the invitation of Mrs Dorota Niedziela. Let's give her a very warm welcome. [[Applause]] Now I ask Minister Marek Biernacki to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u33	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear guests! Welcome very much. Now I'm just stressed out about what a great audience there is. I present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party, Union of European Democrats, Conservatives regarding the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and some other laws, prints No 2290 and 2314. This law, which we have repeatedly discussed in the Sejm, is extremely necessary and I must regret that it is not our last discussion of the Ukrainians who, against their will, had to leave their country, their homeland and were among us in need of help. Never in post-war history has the Polish state faced a similar problem. And that is what we must always remember in the debate. We assume that we will meet again within the committee and revise this bill. We must also remember that so far we have been emigrants, refugees, and that we have been welcomed everywhere, just as after the November Uprising, after World War II or after December 13. And let's remember that too. It's worth repeating. However, it seems that not all the proposed solutions should be included in this document, in this act. I have the impression that once again they have tried to connect to such an important law, concerning either helping people, Ukrainians, solutions from a completely different scope. It is about renewable energy sources or the introduction of accident rules to allow free funds from certain special funds to be redirected in 2022, including: from the Government Road Development Fund, for the purchase of energy raw materials by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency in order to strengthen energy security and to supplement the shortage of stocks resulting from the sanctions imposed which have resulted in restrictions on imports. Of course, with regard to the source of this amendment, the problem, this is war, the brutal Russian aggression against Ukraine. And that's what we're aware of. But I think it should be in a separate act. This should be a separate debate and other committees should deal with this. The carbon problem is gonna get worse. We were expecting this. And praise the Polish government and the Polish state that they are aware of the dependence of our economy on hard coal, among others. An anthracite from Donbass. We knew this would happen. That is why it is necessary for the Sejm to be held in the near future, with a clear and clear discussion of the whole complex situation. And the documents and legal acts should be separate here, and they should not be dealt with in the MMA committee, they should not be included in the work of our committee. I also believe that the government will certainly go to the next meetings on this issue and, when the amendments appear, a coherent programme will flow to the meetings of other committees, to other committees. The amendments that have been introduced are supported by our club, because they aim to improve the situation of Ukrainian children, to introduce language learning, and it is also about the possibility to occupy the deserts, which is very important, by local governments and to improve their occupation and transfer them to migrants, refugees. They are also envisaged in the law solutions with e.g. to enable effective elimination of applications for and collection of benefits by Ukrainian citizens who do not have the right to benefits due to the loss of their right to legal residence in Poland. As a matter of principle, this is the right thing to do. However, at this point I would also like to remind you that a large proportion of Ukrainians, refugees, emigrants who, under our Law of 12 March, had rights, certain powers and who applied for payments in March, have not yet been paid out. I was talking about it at first reading, and I'm saying it now. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, we also have to face the fact that we will still have to adapt our right to the dynamically changing reality of the aggression of Russia, the Russian state, to the independent Ukraine. Already today, I would like to signal a problem that seems extremely important from the point of view of state security. Practically since the beginning of the war in Ukraine we have seen avalanche growth so called. fake news hitting directly in our country refugees, Ukrainians. This can potentially have a huge negative impact on the atmosphere in Polish-Ukrainian relations. False information about the Ukrainians, accusing them of banditism, assaults and thefts, while forgetting that 96% refugees are women and children, causing this atmosphere to thicken. It would be appropriate for the Polish services, including special services, to examine these activities in depth and to submit proposals to the High House on what remedial measures, including legislative measures, should be taken to minimise such risks. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u34	Thank you very much. I'd like to see a representative of the Confederate circle now. This will be Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, who will present the position of the circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u35	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Continuing the line in which the Polish right state is the most important, we are not against helping our Ukrainian guests, refugees, but we also want to emphasize the importance of common sense in all of this. That is why we are putting forward some amendments here at second reading. On the other hand, I would like to pay particular attention to one issue, namely the right to acquire Polish citizenship, which should be granted within 10 years. So this is a significant increase, like Switzerland, ladies and gentlemen. The reason for such an idea lies in the concern for political stability, for the stability of our country, our nation. We are not able to predict all the effects of this powerful migration, we are not able to predict whether it will not grow yet. Therefore, we should be careful about this very good, which is a group of people who have full civil rights in Poland. That is why we are submitting these amendments and ask them to be accepted.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u36	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun will continue speaking on behalf of the circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u37	God's greetings to all victims of all wars, east, west, north and south of Poland. But we're here in Poland. This is the Sejm. The Republic of Poland. [[We know where we are.]] Our task and our legislative, constitutional delegation is to ensure the safety, freedom and well-being of Polish citizens. You are creating - this cycle, the whole series, as the venerable colleague rightly predicts here, an endless series - a new category of citizens, quasi-citizens, who begin to enjoy various rights without imposing obligations. And it's dangerous, and it's risky. And it's a risk, unfortunately. confirms itself because we are going into economic, financial, social, and ultimately political costs. This country you are talking about the disappearance of the country, which is the Republic of Poland, and you are already adopting quite publicly, loudly, thunder - and from the left, and from the left, from the right - you are advertising the project of a union of states, so the creation of a new country. You were outraged when we talked, predicting that it was no longer helping war refugees, that it was a mass resettlement. Today is a fact. The Ambassador of the Republic of Poland Magierowski in Washington says that of these 3.5 million, according to his predictions, they will settle in our country with 2 million. Dear Minister, We cannot by any means support any of the amendments to the amendments to the endless laws of the Ukrainian+ cycle. Not from sentiments or sentiments, but according to our sense of national interest, the Polish state's reason. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u38	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The third month of the Parliamentary debate and it is good that for the first time the amendment of such a necessary law did not take place in a violent manner. There was time for more detailed analysis. We reiterate our request for adoption of several amendments of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050. As it will no longer be possible to justify these amendments at the next committee meeting, I will do so now. Some Ukrainian citizens treat Poland as a transit country and plan to settle in another country of the European Union. It happens that they do not obtain confirmation of entry at the border crossing point, but they need it to show the date of entry into the Schengen area, and the only way to obtain confirmation of entry is now by applying for a PESEL number. Non-governmental organisations indicate that the granting of the PESEL number is treated by other Member States of the Union as a declaration of application for temporary protection in Poland and therefore makes it difficult to obtain temporary protection in another Member State. The amendment therefore assumes that registration of such entry, not residence, should take place directly at the Border Guard facility. In order to justify the next amendment, I would like to say that the Border Guard considers, referring to the Schengen Borders Code, that both the temporary protection certificate and the registered PESEL do not replace the visa, the residence card, which causes that in the event of departure from Poland to Ukraine, after more than 90 days after entry into Poland, you cannot enter Poland and should wait 90 days outside the Schengen area. After the end of these 90 days from arrival in Poland, as a rule, foreigners should not leave Poland under protection. While we hear from the Ministry, as well as representatives of the Border Guard, about possible paralysis at the crossings, we also pay attention to the need to register children together with guardians at the border. Volunteers at stations, in many places in Poland, meet teenage children travelling alone in our country without any care. This carries a very high risk of increasing trafficking in human beings. Circle of Parliamentary Poland 2050, listening to the voices of thousands of Poles who have been helping for months, listening to the voices of volunteers, NGOs, has been presenting ideas for the solution in the form of seymical amendments for three months. That is why we call again and ask for these solutions, and we will, of course, support the necessary amendment of the law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u40	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Stanisław Żuk will now speak, who will present the position of the Kukiz Group15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine and certain other laws is a very important novel. It will allow clarification and complementing of existing rules and will provide an adequate standard of protection for Ukrainian citizens, including the youngest ones. What are the most important changes? Solutions will be put in place to ensure that local authorities provide care for the children of refugees aged 3-5 years, in particular when their parents are working. The advantage of such a solution is also that Ukrainian citizens fleeing the war gain another opportunity to work in Poland, because it is the people of this country who will be carers. Work offices will be able to organize trainings in Polish for foreigners. The costs associated with this will be financed by the Labour Fund. It will facilitate the organisation of the teachings of people from Ukraine. This also applies to ensuring equal access to support in the form of additional Polish language learning for those who are and are not Polish citizens who have been educated abroad. Voivodeships will have access to the register of Ukrainian citizens who have been given a PESEL number. The procedures for rebuilding, renovating or changing the use of buildings owned by the local government for residential purposes will be simplified. The Government's Strategic Reserve Agency will be able to accept in the form of donations, store and spend and export medical devices to Ukraine alongside medicinal products. The protection of Ukrainian citizens associated with their work in Poland will be enhanced, which will allow them to be guaranteed work under conditions no worse than those indicated in the notification of the posting of work. Precise rules will be introduced to eliminate cases of application for and collection of benefits by Ukrainian citizens who have left Poland. As the circle of Kukiz,15 - Direct Democracy, bearing in mind the fact that many of the proposed changes are indeed desirable, and as I mentioned in the introduction, it allows for the introduction of solutions that give the opportunity to ensure an adequate standard of protection for Ukrainian citizens, we support the proposed solutions and we are in favour of the adoption of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u42	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Senyszyn, who will present the position of the Polish Socialist Party Parliamentary Circle, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u43	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of the Polish Socialist Party on amending the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of the country. We support solidarity with those fleeing inhuman treatment and death. We have a moral duty to support Ukraine also through the relevant laws. It is important to minimise formalities for Ukrainian citizens, ensure their security, secure them financially, facilitate access to services and enable them to overcome language and cultural barriers. It is very important to grant new aid tools to local governments and our fellow countrymen who, on their own initiative, offer help with the goodness of their hearts. They deserve thanks and support. The amendment of the Act implies among others. organization of Polish language trainings for foreigners and support aimed at finding a job. These solutions are rightly based on education and motivation. It is important to facilitate the free life and legal work of the Ukrainian people in our country. It is necessary to provide professional advice and to allow for a change of profession previously carried out in Ukraine. The Act also contains solutions to improve the quality and safety of the work of foreigners. All activities that will reduce exploitation and violations of workers' rights in Ukraine are important. They must have the same working conditions as Poles. There is no and there will be no agreement for illegal low wages or extended working time. The Parliamentary Circle of PPS supports actions and solutions that improve the situation of Ukrainian citizens in Poland. At the same time, it must be remembered that many Poles live in poverty, that they barely make ends meet, and in connection with rampant inflation, in May 13.9% , it is necessary to raise the minimum wage and derivatives still this year. Remembering the citizens of Ukraine, we must not forget that the State has first of all obligations towards its own citizens. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u44	Thank you very much. This concludes the presentation of clubs and wheels. 30 people signed up for the questions. If any of your fellow Members would like to join this list, please. If not, I'm shutting her down. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Ms Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak. I can't see. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u45	Mr. Marshal! Minister! You have stated, and rightly so, that the Ukrainian people staying with us must become independent, and we must help them in this absolutely. Would you be kind to encourage the Minister of Health because he has many applications for recognition of diplomas, and we need doctors? I know a case when a person has been waiting nine weeks for a diploma to be accepted. If this had happened, a doctor who's a pediatrician could have taken a job by now. This isn't happening. At the same time, I would ask for written information: how many applications have been received by the Minister of Health in this matter? How long does it take for these proposals to be accepted? This is a pretty important case. At the same time, one specific question. You paid a lot of attention to teaching the Ukrainians Polish language. That's right. At the same time, I would like to ask you about the concept (the bell) of the training institution: Does this include a non-governmental organisation, and how does this mean a training institution? Because, of course, they can also teach non-governmental organisations that have in their ranks people able to perform this service. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u47	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This amendment is under normal parliamentary conditions, which should be highlighted through dialogue with local governments, NGOs and opposition. Predicts e.g. possibility to organize Polish language trainings for our neighbours from Ukraine by the county government from funds from the Labour Fund. It sets a maximum limit of 2 000, in exceptional cases 3 000. But this law, and I would like to ask for an answer from a representative of the Ministry of Education, is provided in Article. 165 Education law amendment of point 11, which deletes the words of the Sports Championships and Sports Schools. It is about preparatory periods in which the Polish language is organized. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This item 11 says that where you don't organize... This means that preparatory periods, up to 2 years, in language learning, by leading bodies, can be organised in sports championships schools. Is that what this record is about? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u48	Thank you very much. Ms Urszula Nowogórska, Coalition Poland, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a technical question about this bill. As you know, funds from the Investment Stock and Road Building Fund will be shifted to the purchase of energy materials to boost and increase energy security in our country. I wanted to ask, Minister - and I will probably ask for a written reply, because it is difficult to require technical data at this point - whether it is clear what amount, what and where energy materials will be purchased from and how they will then be redistributed when it comes to residents or institutions in the Republic of Poland. The second question concerns labour offices. The work offices will be those institutions which will teach the Ukrainians Polish language. I wanted to ask you how they will verify the applications, who will be the training institution, how this will be done technically and who will actually be the beneficiary of these requests (the bell) - whether individually each person of Ukrainian origin, whether somehow it will be assigned to local governments or some other institution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u51	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Creating any additional rights for Ukrainian citizens is, of course, dishonesty towards Poles. I think that after this time, which is already passing, we should rather go this way in order to level the playing field, i.e. not create additional categories of citizens. Since we welcomed them to our home and since they stay with us, they should be treated fairly, but first of all, they should be treated fairly with regard to Poles. That's one thing. Secondly, there are several records in this law that are deludedly similar to those in the lex Czarnek Act. I'd like to ask you something specific. We have information that there's about 700,000. children of Ukrainian refugees who must enter the educational system. Since the new school year, they will most likely be treated as standard pupils. I wanted to ask what the cost of this operation would be, where the money would come from, who would pay for it, how the subsidy would be increased and how it would be settled. These are the concrete ones I'm also asking about in the education committee. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u52	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u53	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! The law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict aims, among other things, at: improving the protection of the rights of foreigners covered by the Act, which involves their work on the territory of the Republic of Poland. It also aims to improve the effectiveness of monitoring activities in this area. Ukrainian citizens who migrate, due to lack of knowledge about Polish legislation, language ignorance and difficult material situation are particularly vulnerable to exploitation by dishonest employers. They can often become victims of trafficking in human beings. Minister, I have a question: Will the competence of the State Labour Inspection, as set out in the Law on the State Labour Inspection of 13 April 2007, through the changes made, allow for more effective enforcement of the law from the person entrusting work under a civil law contract and ensure adequate standards for the protection of the rights of foreigners covered by the Special Law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050, will take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u55	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! Of course, about the need to help, no one decent in Poland has any doubts, but it would be good if this help, first of all, was directed to those who really need it, and secondly, it was not some form of unfair additional income for Poles who are taking advantage of the difficult situation of Ukraine. I have a question for the Minister - please answer me in writing - are there any mechanisms planned concerning the control of whether the Ukrainian citizens who are to be in their homes... These citizens receive various kinds of allowances. Is it or will it be verified in some way? Secondly, will there be verified cases where Ukrainian citizens have the means to live in Poland, to stay (the bell) in Poland and not use this aid, which may be needed by others in need? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u56	Thank you very much. Ms Joanna Senyszyn, the Polish Socialist Party, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u57	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the revised law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, various simplifications and facilities are introduced, very rightly. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 28th day care provider for the child also simplifies various types of requirements and increases the age of the child who may be covered by such care from 3 years to 5 years, so this applies not only to nursery age but also to children who are eligible for kindergarten. Because, as we know, there are dramatically few places in crèches and kindergartens in Poland, which greatly limits the professional activity of Poles, I have a question: Will such extending and facilitating regulations also apply to Polish children? Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u58	Thank you. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u59	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! I wouldn't be me if she hadn't asked about people with disabilities and their situation in Poland. I would like to ask, however, whether the Ministry is considering recognising Ukrainian documents and disability decisions within the six months proposed by the Civic Coalition. Next: Who on behalf of the government is responsible for supporting and guiding people with disabilities coming to Poland in order to obtain the right documents? Often these people face the problem of having any contact with institutions that would enable them to obtain these documents. They report to my office NGOs who do everything they can to help people with disabilities from Ukraine. Often people with disabilities who come to us in Ukraine were independent, self-functioning, and here, when they come to Poland, they struggle with the problem of learning Polish language (Dzwonek), with problems in finding a person who would help them obtain documents. They find it difficult to find themselves in Polish reality. One last question. I'd like to ask you about deaf and deaf people. Are among the millions of people arriving from Ukraine to Poland also people with these kinds of diseases? Can these persons, deaf and deaf, be contacted by a translator of Ukrainian sign language? Because it also creates the power of problems when it comes to coming to us sick and disabled. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u60	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u61	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would ask you to answer the question: Can a person who entered Poland after 24 February and is staying here on the basis of the Act of 12 March 2022 on the assistance of Ukrainians go to another country of the European Union for a few days and return to Poland without fear of problems related to the fact that he is subject to temporary protection, which automatically legalizes the crossing of the Schengen area during the period of his obligation? I would also ask you to answer the question: Is such crossing of borders within the European Union possible for 18 months? I would very much ask you to answer these two questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u62	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Grzegorz Braun, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u63	Mr. Marshal! Minister! There are some standards that we, the Confederation, may not always favor, because we would like people to normally decide, on their own, where they like, want to live, where, they think, it is safe to settle, but you love these standards, you screw them up - hygiene standards, historical records and the like - and now with one move you repeal all of this, you delete construction standards. A normal man must fly to the office, meet these standards, is crawled, called to replenish, corrected, and you are erasing it because there is a war in Ukraine, there are war refugees and all this propaganda narrative of yours. You don't have to create problems, then you won't get in conflict with them (The Bell) solving them. The question about housing, which was still bloomed in March forecasted by Ambassador Deszyca. Are these deserts for Ukrainians+ in this act that is the implementation of what you agreed with Despyca in March, what he informed in the Ukrainian media about, isn't that your last word and you will be living problems of Ukrainians in Poland solving more and more ruinous and expensive? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u64	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u65	Honourable Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poland 2050 has tabled an amendment which provides for the possibility of extending the provision of money to those who accept, among others. Retired, disabled, mothers with children. Unfortunately, this amendment has not received a positive recommendation from the committee, of course, with the appreciation of our initiative, you voted against. Some vague announcements have been made that this subject will be resolved in a regulation of the Council of Ministers, and particularly justified cases will be put at the disposal of the municipalities. On the other hand, the problem is that no municipal official is likely to extend the interpretation of such a provision because he will fear responsibility, in particular financial responsibility. We all feel that this is a good proposition. I have a proposal to accept it, not for political reasons, but just to avoid human drama to make life easier for these people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A refugee is a territorial term, a refugee is from a specific area, and that is what international law says. Polish citizens were also refugees, and this is worth paying attention to, for example, medical students who studied at universities in Ukraine. It is about other citizens, especially those from countries that do not fully care about their citizens, citizens who are in such a situation and who have come to Poland. What kind of help can they expect here? Because right now we are focusing on Ukrainian citizens who come to our country as a neighbouring country (the bell), and in the case of those citizens it does not necessarily have to be a neighbouring country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u68	Thank you very much. Ms Ewa Kołodziej, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u69	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Estimates indicate that almost 3,200 thousand are currently in Poland. Ukrainian citizens, both citizens who came to Poland after the start of Russian aggression against their country, as well as those who arrived much earlier. It is no secret that most of them benefit from the help of individuals, NGOs, local governments and entrepreneurs. The representatives of these groups clearly indicate that government aid is not sufficient. According to data from the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, only 160 thousand. Ukrainian citizens have found employment in Poland. So should we not seek legal employment for as many refugees as possible? I ask, therefore, on behalf of entrepreneurs, that it is appropriate to introduce provisions that require the employer to notify the number of hours of work for the refugees employed by him. After all, the time of the pandemic has clearly shown us that we are not able to predict and plan everything. Why, then, do we want to further burden entrepreneurial citizens? The rules proposed by the government (the bell) are further obstacles, bureaucracy and excessive burden for employers. Maybe it's time to finally start supporting them. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u70	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Dear Minister, I have three questions for you and I ask you very kindly to answer in writing. These are the questions addressed to the representative of the government of d.o.b. war refugees from Ukraine. Question one: How many people from Ukraine have found refuge in facilities owned by the State Treasury? I mean, institutions like resorts, bursa types, and other types of facilities that are government property. How many of these people have found refuge in objects that are owned by various churches? And question three. Voivodeships help various social organisations, different NGOs. Minister! Could not information about this assistance of voivods for various NGOs be publicly open information, i.e. what organisations (the bell), for what and for what the voivodships are helping? Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: It's on the Internet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u72	The Minister may have responded in time for himself, but he felt that this information was due to you at this point in time, Mr President. It's on the Internet. [[I'll keep looking.]] Mr Krystian Kaminski, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u73	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to research published yesterday, most Poles, although in favour of helping Ukrainians, are opposed to granting them 500+ benefits in Poland and social benefits such as family care capital, because the aid should be temporary and involve them in our social system does not look like temporary aid. It would therefore be more important to debate about listening to this voice of Poles and, however, to review the fact that we have included them in our system, and also to show that aid must have its limits. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u74	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kalet, Law and Justice will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u75	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Exactly, just now a representative of the Confederation said that it would be necessary to listen to the voice of Poles. At this meeting, the representatives of almost all clubs unanimously stated that the work of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs is substantive and there is some consensus that this is good work, good cooperation. Here we would have to ask ourselves, because there are various suggestions being made, or even, we might say, insults on our part by the Confederation, how many times the Confederation has spoken during these committee meetings. At least I don't remember, and I don't remember being present at any of these committee meetings either. Therefore, talking about you wanting to have a debate, some discussion, it's just fiction, it's bullshit. As it turns out, you have nothing to say. And the question of what a representative of the Confederation also said here, because this is about the Polish state right (the bell), they will be against it. Mr. Speaker! There's one thing you need to understand. When you say the words: God's blessings, which are beautiful, which are a beautiful Polish greeting, remember that the Polish state is being fought at the moment by the Ukrainians, so that you can come to the meeting of the High House and tell your foolishness. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u76	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u77	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! We are talking in this law, which concerns the amendment of the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens, etc., about the transfer of PLN 3 billion to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. This agency is going to buy coal. Who's he gonna buy that coal from? Are the Ukrainians or Poles? How high is this coal going to be purchased? How much is this $3 billion agency planning to buy coal? At what price will this coal be sold? Who's he gonna go to? Will it go to individual farms, to those 4 million Poles who are waiting for coal today, or will it go to companies of the Treasury? What type of coal will be purchased by the agency and in what quantities? That is what Poles are asking today because today they do not know how much it will be and what the government promises them. And one last question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is this part part of some government strategy to supplement this lack of coal? Will you create such a strategy and present it here in the Seym? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u78	Thank you very much. Is Mr Wiesław Bój present in the Chamber? No. So, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u79	Ladies and gentlemen! You say you support this bill because you want to help, you're so good. However, this helps Poles from the beginning of this war effectively, out of the goodness of their hearts, voluntarily and according to their financial possibilities. What you want to do, supporting this bill, is force Poles to finance inefficient institutional distribution systems out of inflation-destroying wallets. That's why I'm considering the words of the dead. Mirosław Dzielski, who once wrote: People living in a world in which the state takes care will not help each other. This creates a lonely crowd in which the individual is helpless. Who can help a neighbor if they pay heavy taxes on state aid schemes and where there are specialised state institutions involved in social aid? Another quote: Automatic and anonymous state aid not only corrupts people (the bell), but also separates them from each other. Why should I help you - says one to another - when I pay such high taxes for state aid? Today's lonely crowd is largely a work of socialism. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u80	Mr Wiesław Buj. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The preliminary map of the deployment of Ukrainian refugees in Poland informs and gives knowledge of which cities and metropolitan areas have chosen refugees to live. So there are many questions about how the government intends to help these local governments and how it will help them. I believe that it is necessary to regulate all aid cases on a systematic basis. How to increase the share of personal and financial assistance? There, especially in those local authorities in which they are located, they have found their place of residence of refugees, special assistance is needed. How can these local authorities provide such assistance? This needs to be formally regulated. Solstice is expected in all areas. What's the government going to do? What should be done to ensure that the population of these cities and areas does not explode discouragement of hospitality for refugees due to the shrinking (The Bell) availability of all services so far? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u82	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Szymański, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u83	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! With a specific question, I was asked by the people, of course, by the people of Ukraine, who are subject to temporary protection, who want to take up legal employment. Of course, there are no problems at the same time, although there was an unforeseen problem related to accessing the permission to drive, i.e. simply taking a driving course in Poland. Well, these people do not have a driver's license, even Ukrainian, wanted to enroll in driving school, where they received information, certified in several communication departments, that they could not obtain a driver's candidate profile, because this profile was obtained after 180 days of stay in the territory of the Republic of Poland. The matter seems to be easy and easy to deal with. Therefore, Minister, I would ask you very much to check whether the deadline of 180 days is actually concrete. Is it not possible, in this aspect, to prepare some (Bingle) separate regulations that would enable the candidate to obtain a profile for a driver to gain the power to drive motor vehicles? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u84	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have two questions. The first is connected with immigration. We're saying about 3,800 thousand. Ukrainians came to Poland and several hundred thousand left, and then maybe they came back again. The question is where the most left back: whether back to Ukraine or to other neighbouring countries of Poland. How are the records kept? Because there could always be a percentage of dishonesty in a system like this. In short: someone was in Poland, got benefits, then went to Germany, there were benefits again, he returned. Is this migration monitored on a European scale? And is it also monitored in Poland when it comes to moving and returning and giving benefits in this context? Second question: Shouldn't special benefits be organised for those metropolises that have the most refugees (the bell), e.g. resources for language learning in these localities? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u86	Thank you. I invite Mr Jack Protas, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u87	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! For several weeks now, we have been working intensively on a law on helping Ukrainian citizens, a very important legal act that regulates solutions to cope with this difficult situation. Recently, even the Minister began to listen to the voices of the opposition, local organizations. For this we are grateful, and it will make this work easier. I have two questions, though. Firstly, do we really have to move funds between special-purpose funds to build strategic reserves for hard coal in this law? What does this have to do with helping Ukrainian citizens? That's the first question. Secondly, is the loan of PLN 1.5 billion from the Government Road Development Fund to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency (Bell) really intentional? Let me remind you that today local governments are in such a situation that inflation and rising investment costs make more and more of their own resources have to be added to the investment in order to achieve it at all. Secondly, roads throughout the Podlaskie voivodship are ruined by the so-called "driver's" or "building" services. It's a big wall. Can we really afford to move these funds to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency rather than help local government to implement the necessary road investments? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u88	Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u89	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed amendment assumes, among others, the extension of the catalogue of entities having access to the registration of Ukrainian citizens who have been assigned a PESEL number. It should be noted that the existing law on assistance to citizens of this country gives four authorities the power to obtain information on the number of Ukrainians and Ukrainians, e.g. ZUS or KRUS. Giving such authority also to the Central Statistical Office seems unnecessary in my view. What is the purpose of this if there is a concern that there is a breach of the principle of data minimization that the processing of personal data must be adequate, appropriate and limited to what is necessary in order to achieve the purposes for which personal data is processed (the bell) and the principle of limiting the purposes of the GDPR? Why are you trying hard to extend the catalogue to another public entity, since it is clear that there is no need to do so? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u90	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u91	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I don't have the right to enter my office in Białowieża, but I can visit a war country for that, which is why I went to Ukraine to take humanitarian aid. I give all Polish people and Poles my sincere thanks from the sisters and brothers of the Ukrainians who come from there to us every step of the way, from Lviv, from Kiev, from the ruined Buch or from Irpia. My interlocutors promised that if ever there was a need - hopefully not - they would do exactly the same for us. I know it's gonna get harder every month because our intentions and, above all, resources are limited, but let's stick to this help as long as we can, because we can't see the end of this terrible war. I appeal to the government to get it together and stop taking advantage of the merits of Polish society (the bell) to stop using them in the game with the Union: we are helping Ukraine, so give money and do not require us to be a law-abiding country. It is the Poles and Poles who help, because they are empathetic, and what you really think about refugees is visible on the Polish-Belarusian border. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: And it was almost wise.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u92	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u93	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, I have a question for the Minister about a strategic and predictable element. We're working on the bill in a way that resembles putting out a fire, and we're reacting ad hoc. My question is crucial: Does the Minister really have an idea and is able to predict what will happen when, after 120 days, the financing of aid for Polish families who have adopted the Ukrainians under their roof? Do you provide further assistance to local governments that create these centres? After her loss, what number of persons can be left without help or, more specifically, without a roof over their head? How many of these people are able to work or how many people work to stay in Poland without this support? I read a lot of potential problems here. Secondly, the issue of the education system. 189,000. Ukrainian children are covered by the Polish education system. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The others are covered by the Ukrainian education system. My question is: Do you have any idea of giving language courses to children who stay longer in Poland? Do you have any strategic idea that these children will be able to use the Polish education system more effectively? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u94	I would like to ask Mr Waldemar Sługocki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u95	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I have two questions, one general and the other detailed, namely I would like to ask the Minister about the financial implications of the regulation. Of course, you present in this bill the specific costs associated with, for example, the introduction of language training, issues related to the issuing of appropriate certificates, such as medical certificates on disability. Of course, there are certain amounts there. You are also writing in this document how much money will be spent on energy intervention. My question is pretty general. I would like the Minister to be so kind as to give concrete amounts in terms of the resources that individual departments will have to generate for the implementation of this law, and to say to what extent the costs will be borne by individual local governments. I am thinking primarily of the primary government, municipalities and districts, because they exist in this law. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I have one last, very precise question, Minister. According to the Prime Minister of the Council of Ministers, Prime Minister Morawiecki, the budget of the Government Road Development Fund this year amounts to PLN 2.73 billion. You want to move PLN 1.5 billion to an energy intervention. Will the transfer of these funds not disrupt the implementation of the schedule of the Government Road Development Fund this year? Let us remember that today is 8 June, and the summer is conducive to road investments. Is there no risk for the timely implementation of road investments carried out by local government units in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u96	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u97	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Assistance to Ukraine is not only our duty - it comes from the need, from solidarity, from responsibility. The Poles passed the test, opened their hearts. Now it's time for the government. We have been trying to implement this aid for several months now. I would like to ask: Can local authorities count on real support in providing care in daycare and kindergartens? Will the government provide adequate resources for local governments in this area? It is a huge responsibility of the government to avoid antagonisms, questions why my child did not get into kindergarten or daycare, and the child from another country already did. Please give us a precise answer in this regard. I would also like to ask: What will happen to Ukrainian citizens who are in Poland and who would like to leave for a summer holiday for a week or two to Western European countries? Will they be able to continue to exercise these rights when they return to Poland? Can they come back here without fear of their future? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And one last question. We are very much talking about Ukraine's rapid accession to the European Union. Whether, therefore, the Polish government is working on a comprehensive solution to the issue of the stay or work of Ukrainian citizens in Poland, e.g. by partially abolishing the permanent residence card so that this stay is stable, stable and, of course, to relieve the voivodship offices that are currently very burdened? Please answer these questions in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u98	Thank you very much. I invite Mr Mateusz Bochenk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u99	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! The problems we have been discussing since Russia's aggression against Ukraine did not arise at that time, but it was then that they emphasized. They have also affected various areas to a significant extent. I will mention, for example, the care of the smallest children, i.e. the availability of nursery or kindergarten. This problem has occurred before. He became during the period of this aggression and arrival of our guests from Ukraine intensified. It is also worth mentioning, for example, health care, access to specialist doctors, waiting for treatments, operations or issues from the area of housing policy. These difficulties are the greater today when interest rates (the Bell) are rising, when there is also a crisis in this area. Therefore, comprehensive actions are needed here, so supporting Ukraine as well as strongly focused on supporting Poles. And my last question, on the issue of coal, which has already sounded today, namely, to whom will this coal go, under what rules and when? Today, rising coal prices make these questions appear, of course, and since this thread also sounds in this law, I would ask you to answer these questions. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u100	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u101	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Our friends from Ukraine, who came to Poland, did not do it of their own free will. They ran away from the hell of war to save their lives, their children's lives. Therefore, it is our moral duty to support them in all areas in which we can. Once again, I would like to thank all Poles, NGOs, voluntary firefighters, village hostels, municipalities for their extremely beautiful support, especially during the first period when the Ukrainian influx was very large. Of course, institutional solutions are needed here, but I am asking, and once again, I ask, to see and see the very strong position of NGOs, but also of local governments, in these solutions. I would like to conclude by asking one question, because people who have not yet paid funds are coming to my office (the bell). I would like to ask, Minister, what kind of arrears are there in this respect - it is about this amount of 40 PLN - and possibly when these funds can be paid. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u102	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u103	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Agency for Strategic Reserves will have hard coal. Question: "Where will this coal come from?" Now it's supposed to be seven ships from Colombia, but these are ships that carry coal. Question: "Ms. Minister, what will the structure of these strategic reserves look like?" Do you have any idea how much eco peas we need, how much carbon we need, what kind of coal we need for what boilers? I'm driving on fuel stations, I'm watching them right now in Wielkopolska, e.g. in the village of Ujek, and I am terrified of the void in these formations. Farmers or villagers from the nearest neighborhood reach these coal warehouses and they hear: there is no, there is no, there is no. Question: "Will there be coal from strategic reserves in these coal assemblies, or will they have to go to Katowice or to the Czech Republic?" Minister, this is an interesting case with the Czechs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Now, recently people from Wielkopolska went to the Czech Republic, bought 24 tons of coal, tons with transport to Wielkopolska cost 1400 PLN - ecogroszek. How does it happen that in the Czech Republic you can, and in our country it turns out that way when it comes out? And just a question to the Minister for Agricultural Biomass Profits. We have biomass boilers, we have biomass energy. Are we not at risk of running out of biomass too? And in the future, beyond these years, will you contract biomass for our farmers and what area of crops do you need to balance the system in the absence of biomass? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u104	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Zimoch closes the list of MEPs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u105	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! The creation of a European platform for solidarity has been announced for months. It is intended to define the opportunities and offers of Member States for the reception of refugees. But, sometimes you, justifying the rejection of amendments of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050, just said that such a platform would be set up any moment, so let's wait. I wanted to know: What about this platform? Is it true that today the Polish Platform for Solidarity started? Are you confirming this, or is this the message that was mistransmitted yesterday after the committee meeting? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u106	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration will now speak to Minister Paweł Chezernaker, who will answer the questions previously asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u107	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank you very much for this debate. We are now leaving the humanitarian aid stage and moving on to the system aid stage. And this law is the first response to these problems that are ahead of us in the coming weeks, in the coming months, and which are about to appear in connection with systemic aid, in terms of the functioning of these war refugees from Ukraine, who will want to stay in Poland for another time, for a longer time. Since 10 May on the Polish border there is a trend in which more people leave Poland than come to Poland. Some people return to Ukraine, especially Western Ukraine, where there is a possibility of safe survival in the coming months. Some people who remain in Poland are trying to live here as normal as possible. This is a very special migration in this respect. Not only in terms that in ninety-six percent they are women with children, but also in terms that people who are of productive age are taking up work in Poland. One of the messengers said that only about 200,000. people have taken up work. Ladies and gentlemen, 470 thousand. Ukrainians in the PESEL database are people of productive age, of which nearly 200 thousand. She's taken a job. It shows that about 40% legally working in Poland, functioning and also working on the Polish economy. And in recent weeks, where we are also dealing with more opportunities for seasonal work, this number of people is growing avalanchely. Therefore, this is a unique migration of people who want to function decently here, normally. I think we should enjoy it and create the best possible conditions for these people to live here normally. In fact, this law is the first stage in preparing such conditions and answers to problems that arise, even in connection with the teaching of Polish language or the functioning of the labour market, with the care of children. One of my fellow Members, I am convinced that he has not read this law at all, because he asks what the solutions are. You will be voting on these solutions today. It's related to kindergartens and nursery. Due to the lack of seats, under this law additional places will be created for children from Ukraine in the so-called. Children's clubs. This law is the answer to such issues. Ladies and gentlemen! I answer some of the questions that have been asked today: Parliament has adopted such solutions in previous amendments, which make the law a statutory delegation as regards the grounds for extending these 120 days. These conditions will be in the regulation of this law. I would like to confirm, repeat, that when it comes to those who need further assistance for objective reasons, the provision of PLN 40 to help Polish families who help refugees will continue in cases where objectively people cannot take up work and 4 months is not enough time for them to become independent in Poland, adapt and live normally. And in the near future this regulation will be presented, there is no need to amend the law on this issue. As regards the payment of funds, which include, inter alia, to local governments they go to help refugees, then, please, more than PLN 2 billion are funds that have reached local authorities, were transferred by the voivods from the Fund for Aid to Refugees from Ukraine. These measures shall be paid immediately to the local authorities. It is not always the case that local governments keep asking for it. Therefore, if there are isolated examples where these measures do not reach people or have not yet reached those who have applied for them, I am convinced that we are talking about individual examples here, not some error in the system. Systemically, these funds go to local governments. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, there is no risk of road financing due to the transfer of funds to buy coal. I would like to remind you that at the moment record funds are being spent from the central budget for construction of roads in Poland, including local roads. Even though we have recently had the resolution of the strategic investment fund of Poland Load, where about PLN 15 billion are funds that go to local governments from the central budget for the construction of local roads. So these are measures that have never gone to local governments on such a scale, and therefore today the financing of roads due to these shifts, which we propose for a time, is not at risk. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it is worth mentioning that these solutions, which we are adopting, are primarily in the interest of Poland and Poles. Because there are Members here who are trying to sting one by one who are trying to show that someone has additional rights. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's worth saying from here. Nobody has any extra rights here. People who came to Poland, fleeing bombs falling on their homes, receive a legal stay in Poland just like any other foreigner who will apply for this stay here. Only that they get by law, by law, which the Polish Parliament has adopted. But that doesn't give you any extra rights. These are the laws that everyone who has a legal stay in Poland has, so please do not lie, do not mislead the public. These aren't any extra rights. Ladies and gentlemen! I think that today we should be proud of all those who are taking a job in Poland, helping those who want to return to Ukraine to continue rebuilding their country to live in their home country, in their homeland. With regard to the issues that you have also presented regarding the purchase of coal by the government, yes, ladies and gentlemen, today is a very important issue. As this is the result of the situation we have in Ukraine, and the raw material problems worldwide are related to the situation of Russia's aggression against Ukraine, it is necessary to make it clear that, therefore, there are also provisions in this law that must enter into force as soon as possible to make coal cheaper for Poles. And that's why it's in this bill, so that it comes into force as soon as possible, so that the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency buys coal so that it doesn't run out of coal on the market and that it doesn't run out of speculation bubbles at normal prices, i.e. in the prices resulting from speculation on the market at the moment, he went to Poland, to Poles. That's what these solutions are for in this bill. Thank you again for the discussion, for the debate. Please accept these solutions. With regard to questions related to the Platform of Solidarity, this is the solution that the European Commission is currently creating so that the exchange of information on refugees between the countries of the European Union that accept refugees is as good as possible. We hope that this will be accomplished as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Still on these driver's licenses.]] [[Voice from the room: The rest in writing?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u108	Would the rapporteur like to speak? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u109	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This has been confirmed by what I said as rapporteur for the committee. The discussion at the committee meeting and at the Sejm meeting is substantive. But it is difficult, ladies and gentlemen, not to address a few of the comments that are being made in this Chamber. These comments go to Poland, they go into the world. Firstly, this law, which we have been updating from the very beginning, when this problem arose, we are not able to solve all the problems. This is only a matter of responding to the situation that is taking place. And please understand that the government reacts rapidly, quickly, that it learns from what is necessary to oppose such elements. But that doesn't mean that we're able to solve all the problems immediately. It is difficult to agree with Mr Braun's thesis as a representative of the Confederation that Poles create problems, that it is the Polish government that creates problems. Ladies and gentlemen, this is some kind of hypocrisy. Poles do not create problems. It is the president of Russia, it is Russia who has created these problems, which today as Poles and Ukrainians we solve together - we in our scope as a Polish parliament and a Polish government, and the Ukrainians in their scope. Yeah, it's true that's the problem. We must answer this problem today without being the creators of this problem. One point, which is a very important element, I ask you, by the way, and it can be seen exactly in this Chamber and in the committee, that for 3 years in Poland the Polish government has been managing the pandemic crisis and today - the war crisis. And see how quickly these elements are implemented and then implemented. Today, the words of one Member fall from this speaker, that Poles are empathetic, and in the title: the government is not empathetic. Ladies and gentlemen, I must remind you that it is schizophrenia that these empathetic Poles have chosen the Law and Justice to rule. [[Applause]] It is the Law and Justice that does these activities today and has the right to do so. This is the game of emotions that says: Poles are good, but the government is bad. No, ladies and gentlemen, that's not true. Poles are a fantastic nation, Poles respond, but the government is the one who responds to this demand. And these elements are being implemented in this programme. Ladies and gentlemen, at the end of the day, I will also address the words to the Minister of Chiefnernaker, because he is the person who is responsible in the government, he has received the responsibilities, for coordinating the whole action of assistance to the Ukrainians, and at the same time he is a person who directly cooperates with local governments. And here I hear the local governments are happy. Yes, because this cooperation has existed for a long time. And what do I hear as a Member who has also supervised certain activities for many years? That self-governments are always dissatisfied. Yes, of course, some may be, the big ones, but most things are handled without publicity, every day in communication. And today you can see perfectly in the case of this law, as it is solved. And here, Minister, on your hands, at the government's hands, I thank you for being able to do so, that the Minister can do so with his crew. I understand that to some extent some people, because I absolutely stress that we have majority cooperation and agreement, unfortunately on this problem, which is a problem of many Poles, want to play some small, own political interests. It is a shame and a disgrace, but apparently democracy also assumes that there must be such a plankton that it absolutely must use. Thank you again for this discussion, for this substantive work. I hope that in an hour we will continue this and we will accept these necessary solutions for Poland, for Poles and for Ukrainians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u110	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Law - Geological and Mining Law, the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws (prints No 2205 and 2260). I ask Mr Grzegorz Matusiak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u111	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Report from the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Law - Geological and Mining Law, the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. Sejm at its 54th meeting on 12 May 2022 in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm referred the above draft law to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. The Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets, after considering the above draft law at its meeting on 12 May 2022, asks the High Sejm to adopt the attached draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u112	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The first speaker will be Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice this time, unless there is another option, because the Member is on the schedule, so to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u113	I'll just give you a brief message that the position of the Law and Justice Club is to support the current bill. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u114	Thank you so much for the laconic, meaningful expression. Now Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u115	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! Not long ago, we had a terrible mining tragedy - 26 deaths of miners in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, including rescue workers. On April 20, Monk, the methane explosion - nine miners are losing their lives, seven have been declared missing today because the operation has been aborted. On April 23, Zofiówka mine, is going into underground shock. Ten miners are losing their lives. All the time, we were hoping, in the course of the action, from its moment to its end, that we could save the miners. On 20 April, the Prime Minister comes to the mine Pniówek, the President also arrives, but 2 days later, after this visit, the Government of Law and Justice submits a bill in the Sejm concerning the liquidation of the Specialist Mining Authority, an institution which is the only institution in Poland in the field of such specialized activities, which is to control, support... [[Scandal.]] ...and protect the miners and their jobs. What is the main argument for the liquidation of this office? It is, ladies and gentlemen, a change in the organisation of the operation of mining plants in the context of the decommissioning of mines. Prime Minister! Minister! I'm appealing for reflection. Mining widows, miners did not wait for this first legislative act on the liquidation of an institution to ensure their safety. Once again, I ask the question: Will the liquidation of the Specialist Mining Authority contribute to improving the safety of miners' work? We still want to know the Prime Minister, the Minister's answer to that question. Or maybe the president who was in one mine or another. In the light of these recent tragic events in mining, however, we should strive for one thing - a fair and transparent explanation of the causes and circumstances of these events. Yeah, reliable and transparent. It is essential to include the Prime Minister of the Higher Mining Authority, who is at the same time the central authority of the state administration, under direct supervision. The President of the Higher Mining Authority should be subject to the Prime Minister. It cannot come to this, as it is today, that in one department, i.e. in the Ministry of State Assets, there is supervision of mining and supervision of authorities that are to control them, check and ensure the safety of the work of miners. Prime Minister! Minister! Mining widows, miners are waiting to make these changes. The Civic Platform today amends the bill to ensure that the Higher Mining Authority is under the direct supervision of the Prime Minister. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u116	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, who will continue his club speech, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u117	Mr. Marshal! Minister! This is a law that combines structural changes, which is very debatable, in the Higher Mining Authority, with very human matters concerning the fact that we are talking about the definition of discovery, the definition of an ancestor, because people are having trouble investigating their pension rights. Often the investigation ends in courts. The latter part of the law is very important and necessary due to the human aspect. Although I do not understand why these solutions still exclude some miners, e.g. Open coal, in this case the drivers transporting coal to the coal station at the power plant, under the cover of this law and under its solutions. The definition of discovery and the ancestor should be considered very comprehensively so that all people involved in the entire cycle of extraction, transportation of this coal, so that the matters that have so far taken place in their lives can be taken into account later in the proceedings before the Social Insurance Institution. Therefore, we are making another amendment, asking, however, to include all, and not only some, (the bell) there is no historical justice then, and for historical justice, in this case read more simply: the justice of the Polish state - there are many people. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u118	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Necessary, who will present the position of the Left Club, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u119	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let us remind you that the main objective of this law is the liquidation of the Special Mining Authority and the acquisition of its competence by the Higher Mining Authority. We are talking about security issues in mining, issues that seem particularly important and important now in the context of the tragic accidents we have encountered in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. People expect it to be better that there is a greater guarantee that safety issues will be taken seriously and that accident investigations will be objective and effective. Unfortunately, during the process on this particular solution, we did not hear why this would improve these issues. We have heard why it may not hurt, why this takeover can take place without damage to the process and to the supervision of mining, but we do not know how it would improve the situation, and that is what people are waiting for at this moment. Therefore, this amendment of the Civic Coalition, an amendment which gives supervision of the Higher Mining Authority directly to the Prime Minister, is something that is needed, which the Left will support and what ends up in the expectations of the miners, in the expectations of trade unions, in the expectations of all those who hope to have objective and effective supervision, to investigate justice and to explain the causes of mining accidents. The second point is the question of definitions to be clarified and thus to facilitate case law, to bring them into line in pension matters. This, of course, is a necessary step. This law is highly technical in nature, but it addresses a wider issue which is crucial, sensitive, especially in recent weeks, i.e. mining and coal issues. And here we still don't know where we stand, and the problems are getting worse. So why don't we start with this question that I repeat every time: What happens to the process of notification of the social agreement on mining? Has something moved on in this regard? We've been suspended for months. We do not know how long Polish mines will feed, we do not know whether it is worth investing in the mines or not. We have Schrödinger mining, which exists and does not exist at the same time, because we do not know whether we have the acceptance of the European Union or not, for this plan to move away from coal in the longer term. That's another line. In view of the sanctions that are needed, necessary and rightly imposed on Russia, there is already a dramatic shortage of coal in Poland, and the prices of eco-pearl soar into space. It is spring, summer actually, and the prospect of the nearest winter and the heating season should really bother us in this context very much. And here the government's explanations and solutions are not optimistic. Minister Moscow announces the import of 8 million tons of coal by Polish ports, although it is obvious that this is physically impossible. Not to mention that there will be a few countries fighting over this coal, and we have other things that we will have to bring by the sea. In other words, this is a completely incredible plan and this fuel season can be really hard. Another thing. Minister Sasin announces an increase in Polish coal extraction by 2 million tons, although miners are already feeding to the maximum, and underinvested Polish mining is simply not able to pull out more. And this is particularly important in the context of this law, because what Minister Sasin is proposing is simply extremely dangerous. Minister Sasin's goals cannot be achieved without endangering the health and life of the miners, but we are now announcing that the pedal will be pushed to the ground while at the same time eliminating the supervisory authorities. The problem is, of course, also intermediaries imposing speculative margins on coal. We learn that more people work in mediation than in excavation, and Minister Moscow announces that he will sign favorable contracts with intermediaries. Then why have coal companies signed unfavorable ones so far? It's like today's ministry just found out how it works, why it doesn't work, and it's starting to fix it. Better late than never, but it's also very disturbing. The guaranteed final price for people, the omission of intermediaries where possible, are of course the right directions. In this direction You have to go. In the context of this specific law, the Left will support amendments that can help with a more objective and fairer procedure for supervising and clarifying mining accidents. We are pleased to see that certain concepts will be clarified, which will facilitate the investigation of the miners. We still do not understand why at this moment the Specialist Mining Authority would be wound up and how it would help to supervise Polish mining. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u120	Thank you very much. And now Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u121	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The safety of miners is important and you have to do everything to raise the level of this safety. As regards the Specialist Mining Authority, the government considered that its liquidation and placing of the tasks of this institution elsewhere would be more advantageous. The case is debatable. On the other hand, we will support this amendment which has been tabled here. As far as mining is concerned, we need to think more about it, because today we are in total chaos. There's total chaos in mining. In the last seven years Poles have been fed Russian coal, and that was good. Today, we're heroically cutting off this coal and we're heroes, but it's been good for seven years because we've been feeding on this carbon. You could have started thinking earlier that it was Russian coal. We didn't do it. It was possible to invest in renewable energy, and we blocked it all the time - we blocked windmills, now we blocked photovoltaics. And it is true that after this law, which was introduced, after these changes practically photovoltaics, investments in prosumer photovoltaics do not exist. And saying there's gonna be energy storage, there's support... no, it doesn't work right now. It doesn't work, so there's a need for brave action here. I was talking about chaos. There's no inflation, there's inflation. Energy prices weren't supposed to go up, and they're growing and you can't see the end. It all translates into an expense in our stores. When it comes to energy, it's on every plot. And here you see this chaos all the time, it's trampling in place. There's no idea how to get out of this huge inflation and expensive today - there's no idea. The government hasn't put forward any ideas yet. Interest rate - up stakes every month. On the other hand, it adds up on the other side of the money and it spins so beautifully. When there are questions about when it will stop, no one knows when it will stop. Is this gonna stop at 10 or 20%? Fuel prices at stations - at the moment there is drama, change several times a day. But this is an image of how the government lacks the concept of the functioning of the energy system, because here we have to think more about the coal, and look at the energy system. We've been reporting these ideas, and we're reporting them right now. 100 days of war in Ukraine. The question is what has been done to ensure that the sanctions imposed by the European Union and indirectly by us do not have such a huge impact on the lives of Poles. In fact, nothing's been done. The windmills when they were blocked, so on, the cheap energy from the windmills is blocked. We also added photovoltaics, heat pumps. We could switch to electric heating, but we need heat pumps - we produce heat pumps in Poland - 5% VAT on renewable energy devices. All this can be done, it's within our reach. That's not what you do, it's just that there's a lot of regret about it being expensive. Yes, the Poles see this expensive place and ask when it will end. Right now, there's a lot of whining about looking for coal. We were supposed to have coal for 200 years, and right now we're driving around the world looking for coal. Someone didn't see it coming, they didn't balance it out. It took six months, and it all fell apart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u122	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun will now speak and Mr Konrad Berkowicz will speak next.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u123	God's greetings to Polish miners, underground workers, and those who are struggling and poor on earth. We wish them best, but after proceeding on this project, after it has passed through the committee, ladies and gentlemen, shame to admit it, we still do not understand why it was brought in at all. We still don't understand why, apart from the slogan that we should be promoting, not you, reducing the structures of administration and bureaucracy - you do not invoke it - this Specialist Mining Authority is to disappear. Why is it at a time when mining, security - what we know after accidents in the mines of Pnowówek and Zofiówka - is at stake and the country's needs in this field turn out to be unsatisfied and unsatisfied from day to day, why now, halfway across, do you want to change horses, reorganize? Because in this area of Geological and Mining Law you have already raised a lot of concerns in this term of office, suspicions that, in short, you are up to something, I am expressing this skepticism here on the part of the Confederation's circle. We, out of procedural caution, simply because we don't know what you're up to, will not support this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u124	And Mr Konrad Berkowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u125	Ladies and gentlemen! As usual, we are talking about professional groups, and I remind you that the economy is to serve consumers. So let's talk about how you serve consumers on the issue of coal. You have announced here that you are so against Russia that you will introduce an embargo on coal, but you have forgotten that when there is trade between two parties, trade is always because it is beneficial for both parties. We weren't doing Russia's favors for buying coal, we were just buying coal, because it's just cheaper. As a result of the embargo on the anger of your grandfather, you unfreeze yourself, or actually all Poles, ears. As a result, we have an incredible problem with the price of coal, and even with the availability of coal, so far-reaching problem that the Ministry encourages Poles to collect the roughness and makes it easier for Poles. So next time remember: if we buy something from a country, it's because it pays off. We've done far less harm to this Russia than we've done to each other. Polish politicians should take care of Poland's interests. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, on behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u127	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the governmental bill amending the law - Geological and mining law, the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws after presentation of the report of the committee. High Izbo! The bill submitted is intended to amend two areas. Firstly, it concerns the liquidation or abolition of the mining supervisory authority, i.e. the Director of the Specialist Mining Authority, and the liquidation of the office that supports it, secondly, it involves amending the FUS Pension Act by adding provisions containing the definition of mine discoveries and an ancestor, which is intended to clearly facilitate the investigation of legitimate pension rights. And unless the latter change in my opinion raises no doubt - it is clear that these definitions should be so designed and present in the legislation as to make it easier for citizens to investigate their rights - we are still waiting for explanations from the Ministry, which is really to make this administrative change, namely the liquidation of one of the supervisory authorities, in the field of mining security. Ladies and gentlemen! We all know that the security issue in the mines is extremely important. Recent accidents have shown that this security in mines requires a decisive improvement. Unfortunately, the administrative change here will not change anything, and it seems that the government itself has no idea how to put in place such mechanisms, which will ensure security on a thick scale. We wait when the government finally tells us what they're going to do about it. But I think that, in addition to the security issue of this second extremely important problem, which today spends its sleep with probably most citizens, there are not only houses that are heated with some form of coal or heating oil, but also residents of housing cooperatives, who mostly are the heat that they have in their homes, apartments, they are getting from coal. They're worried about where to buy it, and if anything, for what amount. Today the PiS government has given the green light to the coal mafia and the coal mafia is draining Poles' wallets today. I'm asking why you want to pay back the coal mafia for draining the wallets of Poles, and you don't want to make this mafia just go where it belongs, which is behind bars. We are all looking today with horror at the fact that the information systems that your people introduce in the case of the sale of coal via the Internet allow this coal mafia to buy coal from customers, from those who heat houses with coal (the bell) or other carriers, such as. fuel oil. How is it possible that in a country that has this kind of IT facilities, the left-to-right carbon mob, as it pleases, and the government doesn't do anything about it? The first thing we expect is to stop the coal mob. Today we expect real action from the PiS government in this area. Not pumping money into the mob's pocket, just putting it behind bars where it should go. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the Chamber: Evidence, sir. What mob?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u128	Thank you very much. That's where we ended our club appearances. 20 people signed up for the questions. Would any of you like to join them again? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask a question for one minute. First, Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u129	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to ask, and I would like to ask you in writing, what role is the project Life with Mining in the Higher Mining Authority. The budget of this project is PLN 3.2 million and, as we read on the web pages, Poland and Saxony are to organize conferences and study trips in Saxony. This foundation is powered by a number of companies with the participation of the State Treasury. I ask you this because the last activity of this foundation according to the information on its website dates back to 2019, and it consisted in the organisation of a photo contest that had nothing to do with security in mining. Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u131	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, For a long time, brown coal miners have been demanding equal treatment in terms of social protection of exempt coal miners, as well as stone coal miners. There's work to be done. Recently, at the meeting of the Sub-Committee on Fair Transformation here in the Sejm, Minister Piotr Pyzik has committed himself to presenting detailed arrangements for these workers by 13 June. It is very urgent because the authorities of the ZE PAK capital group announced in April an additional acceleration of plans related to the termination of all coal blocks by the end of 2024, which means the acceleration of the plans to fire workers, miners of this capital group. They need help and support. To this end, funds were also to be mobilised from the Fair Change Fund (Bell). I would like to ask, at what stage is the issue of a fair transformation fund between the European Commission and the Polish government and at what stage is the plan for helping brown coal miners from the government, which was mentioned by Minister Piotr Pyzik. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u132	Thank you very much. High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Our discussions are attended by young people from schools from Leszno, who came to the Sejm at the invitation of Mr Wiesław Szczepański. Let's give her a very warm welcome. [[Applause]] Mr Rafał Adamczyk, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u133	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd like to know what you've done since these tragic events in the mines, these accidents, to increase the security of the miners working there right now. What are you doing to secure the right amount of coal for individual customers? And the third question indirectly related to today's point - internship pensions. When are the internships gonna end? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u134	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Mirosław Suchon.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u135	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As I said in my speech on behalf of the wheel, the government gave the green light to the coal mafia and this mafia drains the wallets of Poles. Minister! I'd like to ask you when the government is going to take measures that will cause this mob to lose access to its source, coal. When he loses access to the eco peas and when does this eco peas finally end up in the hands of people who really need coal to heat their homes and their apartments? Today, the coal mafia takes precedence over this purchase. He buys $1,000, then sells 2,000, 2.5. 1,000, 3,000. zł. How are people supposed to stand it? And your government tolerates it. Second question. Minister, for years the government has claimed that coal is the strategic raw material of Poland. Today, after the embargo, it turns out you were talking about Russian coal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the question is, why haven't you done anything over the years so that there's no such thing as when there's no coal supply from one source, suddenly this coal can't be produced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u136	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of this law is the liquidation of the Specialist Mining Authority and the acquisition of its competence by the Higher Mining Authority. However, in view of the current deep crisis related to the availability of coal, it should be considered whether the above-mentioned changes should be introduced at this point in time. It is more important for Poles, how much and whether they buy coal in order to warm their homes in winter, so that it is not as it is now, that it is proposed 3 000. £ per ton of eco peas. Because the last assurances of Minister Jacek Sasin that there will be no shortage of coal in Poland, not only do they not calm down, but also lead to even greater anxiety. Therefore, I ask you to answer the question of when the government will finally take action to improve the sale of coal in our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You encourage Poles to refrain from buying coal, but the problem is that people don't believe you anymore, because what you say is different and what you do is different. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u138	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u139	Dear Marshal, Minister! At the end of the first decade of this century, many companies were established in mining. Some of them have been privatized, others still operate as companies of the State Treasury and operate in mining. Such a company is, among others, a company. Bestgum from Belchatov, a company specializing in the vulcanization of tapes, but also in many other fields of mining work. These companies were set up to reduce costs. I would particularly like to draw attention to the pathology of using people's work on purely mining sections for non-górical pay already. This is a problem concerning both pay and internship, it is about crediting this work to the specific conditions in which this work is actually carried out. I am asking you here to lean on the problems of the people of these companies. This is a very important issue. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u140	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u141	Ladies and gentlemen! For a dozen mines in the Coal Company we have almost 200 union organizations that collect tens of millions of zlotys. So my question is, when are you gonna end up with a union in state mines? [[They're independent.]] When are you finally gonna end up with an inefficient, wasteful principle, state management of mines and hand them over to your private hands? When are you gonna free us from the ridiculous share of emission charges that increase the price of energy by a dozen percent? [[Voice from the room: You don't have to do that.]] And when you finally allow what we've been asking for for for many years, that is, to get energy from an atom, so as to be really independent from other countries, not to wave a saber for dozens of years and be addicted, for example. From Russia? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u142	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak will now speak. You're welcome. [[About the way we're discussing things.]] You're an MP to me? [[I would formally like to see the High House on how to conduct the discussion.]] Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak and then the Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u143	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! We've been in total chaos for the last seven years when it comes to mining, coal. We've got too many times, too few times, too many times, we've missed him, we've got queues. There's a line behind coal today, too. The government spokesperson comes out and says: Poles, do not buy coal. Well, that's paranoid. People are standing because they're afraid because prices are getting higher every day, and the government spokesperson says, "Don't buy coal." Poles do not believe these promises, because these declarations were too many. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u144	Mr President, can you make it possible for a gentleman who has the time at this point to speak calmly?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u145	Well, then, sir, buy coal or not buy coal? It's a basic question. [[Buy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u146	Mr President, please do not argue with your Member because this is not the formula for this point.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u147	But he started arguing with me. This chaos must be stopped. Therefore, I have a question if the Minister is able to answer: What are the rules? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Minister here just said that coal will be here, that we bought coal somewhere in the world. But what are the rules for it to be sold? Because these local vendors are already asking me, and they're coming to me, too, what are the rules? It's supposed to be sold. The Poles would like to know, too. Whoever's got a stove on eco peas will want to buy that coal sooner or later. Thank you very much. [[Technically.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u148	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u149	With a formal request for a change in the way the discussion is conducted. Mr. Marshal! You have already entered this subject, which I would like to raise here, on the example of the honourable Member who is sitting there mumbling, entering the frequency of the speakers we would like to hear. Of course, it is an excellent tradition of this House to talk and shout, even in a substantive and attractive way. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But, Mr Marshal, or please overdo it so that you sit closer to your protocol (Applause) so that she can write down what he is mumbling there, or turn on the microphone that is on the bench of the Member so that we can all admire his invention, his invention and his clever ad rem riposta, or evict a Member from the High Chamber, because he disturbs, does not bring anything, muttering. And that's the PiS procession. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u150	I ask Mr Mosiński very much: Mr Mosiński, may I ask you to remain calm so that the Members who are on the floor can speak calmly? Because while I generally disagree with Mr Braun, I find that at this point he was right, because your mumbling is certainly not helping in your speeches. [[I won't allow myself to be insulted.]] No, I'm in the middle of a meeting, and you're interfering with the proceedings, and that's the difference between us. Now please, Mrs Ewa Kozanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u151	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The purpose of the amendment to the procedated law is to clarify and supplement mining concepts. They have been formulated after consultation of industry environments with specialists and the proposed wording is intended to facilitate, enable the Social Insurance Institution to process employees' applications for mining pensions efficiently. I therefore have a question as to whether the amendments to the Act will actually improve the procedures for granting mining pensions without the need to refer cases, requests for legal action and the procedure for issuing pension decisions being extended. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u152	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u153	Mr. Marshal! Minister! The clock is ticking, coming on June 13th, your promise made during the subcommittee meeting on fair transformation in the presence of trade unions, miners from PAK, Konin, Turk was very specific. Will the government accept a bill that will allow miners and energyists to be treated in the field of Konin like coal miners in Silesia? And is it possible that this union law, under which signatures are being collected at the moment in Eastern Wielkopolska, will take over the government or the Members of Law and Justice? In the end, it would only take 15. Will there be a project under the Sejm, according to which pensions and mining holidays (Dawn) for miners from Wielkopolska East will be like for those from Silesia? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u155	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Maybe I'll talk about mining security. I wanted to ask the Minister at what stage are the work of the committees that are working today in order to get to what caused these accidents. What stage are you at? Will there be any public conferences on these stages where the committee is, what did she check? Another question, it came from the mining widows. At what stage are payments of compensation and compensation for moral and physical losses incurred in connection with the death of their miners' husbands? Are they already paid? In what form will they be paid? Is this going to be a form of settlement, or is there going to be a case in court? And another question: Will the regulations talk about the same amount, will compensation be granted in the same amount for widows and orphans? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And the last question concerns the miner's widow who recently died in the Pniówek mine. This lady's due in two months. Will this lady also be entitled to a special pension granted by the Prime Minister? If the Minister doesn't answer, I would very much ask for a written reply, some details probably still need to be checked. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u156	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u157	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have this question: Is the Specialist Mining Authority in liquidation, or are the competences of the Higher Mining Authority changing, so that it takes over these employees? And isn't that gonna cause damage to the security of the mines? Second thing. Is the Minister aware of who's in the coal mafia? Because Mr. Suchoń referred to it, and I think he will provide documents that will determine who is in this mafia and who represents this mafia, because very often there was a word here: the mafia. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] And, Mr. Braun, mumbling and speaking, discussion is different levels. Thank you. [[Appreciate it, Marshal, I'm not asking for a refund.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u158	I ask Mrs Krystyna Skowronska to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u159	First, if my previous speaker spoke about Polish, please draw your marshal's attention, as he says to the Members, that they are screaming. Please also draw her attention to the parliamentary language. But now to the point. The liquidation of the Specialist Mining Authority will take over these tasks by the Higher Mining Authority, as my colleagues Nowak and Gadowski spoke about. I want to ask you how this will increase and improve the security of the miners, and secondly, what the appeal procedure will be, because this is important. And this is the moment when we must finally ask - the Minister manages state assets in mining - how and when this eco peas will be cheaper, because you have not done anything about it yet. And I have such a question and sentiments to submit from letters that come to us: behind Tusk I made 2.5 thousand. And I could buy myself a 1250 l of rape oil, and now for that amount I can buy 166 l of oil. Come on. For the lowest for Tusk 1230 zł I could buy 625 l of oil, 2,5 T eco peas, and now I can't buy the lowest tons, because the eco peas cost $3,000. zł. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an assessment of your governments. Let's see who's making money and making these unwarranted profits. You've been asking about the gas to Norway. Then finally show here, in Poland, entities that have a bad profit. What have you done if you speak of a wicked, unjust higher profit in relation to other countries? What did you do? Do not tell and do not charm Poles, because just inflation is the best assessment of how you rule. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u160	Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u161	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! First, such a general remark - a request for less hypocrisy, because it seems a month ago, 2 months ago, and at least 3, 4 months ago in this room I heard to stop imports of coal from Russia. And now that imports of coal from Russia are stopped because there is war and there are sanctions, we scream why there is no coal in Poland and why there is so much coal in Poland. This is the result of the fact that we stopped importing coal and now we need to look for solutions. Just ask how quickly we're gonna solve this problem, not say it happened for no reason. Because it was here that there were demands to stop coal from Russia when it comes to imports. I have a question about the Specialist Mining Authority. He was primarily involved in supervision of constructions in the mining sphere, in particular constructions, energy flow, etc., i.e. he was very specialized, as the name indicates. And now (The Bell) moving it to the Higher Mining Authority, which mainly deals with the operation of mines, security in mines, etc., the way of extraction, will create confusion. Was it worth eliminating this specialized office? And so some people will go to the Higher Mining Authority, so was it worth eliminating the institution that has already specialized in these matters and had experience? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u162	Thank you. Mr Piotr Boris will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u163	Dear Marshal, However, these changes raise many concerns. There is a question about the validity of the liquidation of the Specialist Mining Authority, where there are, first, professionals, and second, there is a whole range of supervision - over skips, elevators, ventilation, dozens of different things that function in the structure of the mine. This requires supervision. There are many doubts about validity. As far as the appeal is concerned, it has always been the President of the Higher Mining Authority. Who's gonna be the appeal institution in all these cases right now? So there's no logic here. If something works well And we're used to a certain standard of operation and procedures, so why change that? Is there any intention behind this, and will it affect the level of security in the mines? I'm also saying this as a copper pit resident. That's one thing. And secondly, I have a question about my region, fair transformation and all the misfortunes that are in Turów, with penalties, problems of functioning. Do you ultimately leave Turów without the assistance of nearly PLN 1 billion for energy transformation without these measures? I'm asking for an answer on this matter. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u165	Since we are talking about fuel, about the heating needs of the country, I have a question: How much do you value the price of a chronus beam at Orlen stations in the coming quarters, how will it grow? A joke. My real question, a serious, fat caliber, because I'm still here, and I'm Googled, and the pages of these offices are quite intuitive. Like all governments, they're as non-intuitive as possible to make it harder to find. The question is, how do you turn around a position merry-go-round? I mean, who gets fired, who stays? What will be the personalities in this so transformed Higher Mining Authority? Who's going to retire? Are there any briefings scheduled? 'Cause maybe here's the answer to why you're doing all this. Because maybe it's about one doing the right thing, and the other, less of ours can do the right thing? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please help me solve this mystery. In personalities, if possible, in personalities of a specialized and senior office. [[GDPR.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact is, there are also problems in mining. Today people are asking themselves, of course, questions about coal, its availability, but above all about the price of coal, which, like everything in recent times, are growing in a non-standard way. These prices gallop from day to day, and the issue of coal and fuel for winter is absolutely a fundamental issue. My question is precisely what this will all look like in the coming days, weeks when it comes to availability and prices of coal. The second point concerns the law itself: How Will it improve the safety of the miners? What about the social agreement on mining? But also what happened to the billions from the sale of CO
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u168	Mrs Monica Rosa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u169	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I wanted to ask if there was a timetable for increasing coal mining in Polish mines. And if that's the schedule, what does it look like over the years? Does this mean new investments? If so, how do you see it financially, broken down by Bogdanka and PGG, and whether these investments, e.g. on the PGG in the new walls, have you started, or are you waiting for something? I would ask for an answer here and here, from the pulpit, and in writing. My second question concerns the first conclusions of the committee's work on the disaster in the Pniówek mine. Are those the first conclusions already? Why am I asking this? Because waiting 2, 3, 5, 12 months for the results of a comprehensive analysis can make mistakes repeat. They're talking about bad ventilation, they're talking about there was a fire on the walls, so the wall wasn't allowed to go, and yet she was going. Therefore, the question is whether such proposals are already in place and whether recommendations have been implemented at this stage in order to improve the security of miners. And my third question (The Bell): When will ordinary people get real prices from the producer when it comes to coal and green peas? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Sosnierz will speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u171	You justify the introduction of this project by the fact that because we are rolling up these mines, it is necessary to optimise employment and, at the same time, in the justification of this project, in the impact assessments of the regulation, it is clearly stated that no one will lose their jobs, that it will not affect the labour market, because no one will lose this job. There you go, that's optimization as far as we can. Why do we need this optimization, then? - I'm asking. Can somebody explain this to me? What's the point of optimization if the number of parasites in mining doesn't change by one piece? It's gonna come down to, as I understand it, unscrewing the plates on the door and screwing the new ones up. If so, I would ask you to give us these tablets. We will have a souvenir after reforming Poland as far as possible during this term of office. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u172	Thank you. Is Mr Janusz Kowalski in the Chamber? If there is no such thing as the list of persons enrolled in the questions has been exhausted, please address Minister Piotr Pyzik, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, who will answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u173	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the participants in the debate for all the questions they have asked. I'll try to answer all the questions. If I hadn't made the time or the answers weren't satisfactory, I would have asked you to renew them and, of course, I would have answered them in writing as usual. Maybe I'll start with more than just questions than debates, because this is where the first questions, questions, came up. In many questions the issue of SUG was raised as a certain element, perhaps even a totemical, security in mining. Okay, the only thing is that the purpose of the change that we propose and which was agreed, among others. with the head of the Higher Mining Authority, it was, as one of the Members said, just reducing, optimising and eliminating bureaucracy. It's so in a nutshell, of course. If any of you want any more information about this, I'd like to ask you. According to our analyses, the assessments did not affect or affect the state of security in Polish mines. The proposed changes - I am talking about the reorganisation of the WUG - will not increase the expenditure of mining supervisory authorities from the state budget and will have a positive impact on cost optimisation and more efficient use by the President of the Higher Mining Authority of their resources. That's about the first line. Oh, let me add one more thing. There were such comments regarding the fact that this request occurred in the circumstances of these disasters. Ladies and gentlemen, everyone who's been sitting... Maybe that's the wrong word. All those who have worked on legislative proposals know that they do not come from day to day. Such situations occur extremely rarely and are incidental. I can tell that the Mining Department has been working on this a few weeks before it was filed. And the fact that it came out right now is, Mr. Coincidence, just a terrible case. It's a question of definition. As far as definitions are concerned, we need to look at this issue more widely. Mr Nowak, if I remember correctly, asked about these transporters. Yeah, in conversations with the social side... These are conversations, as you know, and in a trialogue, and multi-segmentally, especially as far as Eastern Wielkopolska is concerned, and more specifically, brown coal, as well as this element of ZE PAK, a private mine in the area of state companies, companies of the State Treasury. We have been working on this, as you both know, for a long time. It is so that we encounter social resistance in certain areas as regards the catalogue of people who could be subject to these mining holidays, all these claims, on the basis of their work in brown mining, that is how I will describe it. And this also compiles some of the problems that some of you have mentioned... Mrs Kozanecka. It is a matter of court. In a normal way, these people, having no satisfaction with their workplace, employers, refer cases to court. That's the obvious thing. In order to prevent these actions from responding to all these phenomena, we are talking to the Minister of Sweden, the Ministry of the Family, but also with the ZUS in this space. From what I remember, I think at the next meeting of the Tripartite Team and the ZUS, and Mr.Swedish Minister or representatives of the Family Ministry will come along and all these issues seem to agree. The thing is, we don't want to... That's the promise I made. That's gotta go for it. Namely, I did not promise that this bill would pass. I promised that I would do everything I could to ensure that all interested parties who should express their opinion did not only express it, but also actively participate in solving the whole problem. I know that several Members are also very active in trying to resolve these issues from their side. Besides, we are in regular contact with Mr Nowak. Which way are we going? This is where we're going, maybe not so much history justice, because it's a little too much... It is enough for me if all solutions in the brown coal space are prepared in the spirit of social justice. That's why I don't hide that there are situations when we're pressured to, for example. - with all due respect to the secretaries, this is such a legendary story when it comes to these meetings - the secretary was paid a 14th salary, that's a 14th salary. I do not regret anything, but we too, as a representative of the Ministry of State Assets, try to be the depositary of interests of more than 38 million Poles who do not work in energy, say, the brown one. I understand the industry business, but social justice must be the basis of everything that doesn't mean it's supposed to be an outlaw, so to speak, I'm going to quote a classic. I'll tell you exactly what I'm gonna say about the transporters. There is such a fundamental problem that they do this operation, as far as the transport of coal is concerned, beyond the boundaries of the plant, and this in turn is the bone of discord, that as far as the outside, with all due respect... It's like a driver who would pick up coal or some other stuff from some other company, he would take it out and drive it, and he wouldn't get permission under the mining regulations either. Here's one more thing. I have the impression - because as you know me, I avoid certain, say, political stories - that in the case of ZE PAK such a trend appears gently, so let us explain some issues immediately. No, there is no situation in which employees of private companies do not have the same powers as those of companies of the State Treasury, assuming, of course, that all statutory requirements that will be introduced are met. There is no denying that in this situation on the one hand, unfortunately, I have to say, for today I do not see the basis for covering these transporters - let's call this group a benefit, that is, giving them this benefit when it comes to the use of this law, but on the other hand I think it has strengthened the Ministry of Family and the Social Security Office and we will work out some solutions. I'm not saying, I'm not promising that it's gonna be a good solution for them in terms of how they want it or what we've heard today, but we're gonna make sure that, like every industry, every profession, man's hard work doesn't go to waste, especially in old age. There are a lot of policy elements here. Okay, because such a trend is beginning to appear when it comes to the coal policy of the government of Mateusz Morawiecki and Prime Minister Sasin, going in such a direction that nothing has happened for seven years. Nothing could have happened in a situation that, first of all, we found. Secondly, I will refer to another issue, namely coal. The Polish State has not imported coal from Russia in 7 years. But first things first. In previous terms I had the privilege of sitting in the Chamber and two, three terms ago were such a situation concerning the JSW, but also Jaworzna. It was a very painful school. I am talking about what happened to the miners in Jastrzębie, and it was based on a policy of the then government in relation to mining. What do I mean? I mean, mining... Here I don't want to call it a strict sense for today's opposition because we all know what's been going on in mining for years. The underinvestment today results in the fact that these mines that work and which can work are working on what they can and can do. What happened to potential profits in different years, when coal had its sineoid, means the maximum of its sineoid or the minimum, is another matter. I don't want to move that. As for bringing in Russian coal, there were very brave thesis here. I would therefore like to clarify one point. Namely, it was not the Polish state that bought this coal, but it was bought by private companies. This is a private segment, while it is extremely important for its customers, important for the Polish state as well as for the customers of this coal. These are especially small heat plants, that's what we call them. small agricultural business, that's the general name, i.e. farmers who produce food in greenhouses, in terms of vegetables, fruits, tomatoes, cucumbers, that kind of thing. Okay, but there is also the most important issue, namely these are individual recipients. And here's the basic thing: Why did this happen for many years? For many years, the market was used to what was the situation? On the fact that the Russians were selling this coal at dumped prices, and at some point we all started to realize that it had a purpose and some meaning. What's that? That's what we've known for six months. I've been in the MAP for six months now because of the occupation I have the privilege of speaking to you. Many months earlier, we all knew it was going in the wrong direction. A horse with a row or even a kingdom to the one who predicted it properly earlier, but it seems to me that the situation of Poland in the context of the whole situation is not bad. I think it's even beneficial. I see time is running out, and I'd like to answer a few more questions, at least orally. All of you or most of you have asked about this coal, about eco peas, about all these issues concerning prices, supervision of - to be exact - PGG, etc. Ladies and gentlemen! I have no knowledge in the sense that someone came to me and said, "Iksinski with some Kowalski." They messed up something. A convergence of names, if there is one, it's random. The thing is, as a person who oversees the operation of these companies, I can't say or command - to say this I may be able to theoretically do anything - the CEO of the company to carry out specific activities: go left, go right, etc., because the board has a supervisory authority, i.e. a supervisory board, which has a responsibility to supervise all these issues. In fact, after every major incident, of course, I also get some signals, but here's the thing, if any of you have the knowledge of this process, I think that's what it's called, please kindly report This is for the competent authorities, because the Ministry of State Assets is neither the Ministry of Justice nor any such. On the other hand, my supervisory activities are more about improving the efficiency of management activities, not, as to say, looking for some pre-trial or procedural solutions. That's what I'm leaving to the authorities to do. On the other hand, for my part, I am trying to do everything to ensure that control mechanisms not only exist, but as information about the specifics, let's say the wrong action... I'm trying to figure out if there's a possibility that this is happening or not. The Ministry of State Assets doesn't even have so many employees at every gate in every mine to set up, so to speak, a lookout and find that the coal that is in that mine, legally or illegally, was sold properly or not. No, it'll do an audit based on accounting materials, so to speak. I think justice may not be as fast as we want, but it will reach all these people, knocking on the door of all those who contribute to the things that are currently happening on the market. It's a very important piece of information. The Ministry of State Assets, my humble person in fact, is responsible for domestic coal. I am about to answer your question about increasing production. The point is, I work in the national coal space. On the other hand, as far as imports of coal are concerned, according to the Departments Act, this is a matter of substance for the Ministry of Climate, i.e. Minister Anna Moscow. That's why she works in the import space. The assurances we have from the Ministry show that all arrangements for importing and meeting the needs of the market will be made, while for further information please go to Minister Anna Moscow. The Member asked about the issue of mines, about the resumption of production. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said, in charge of domestic coal production, if that is the case, I have to put some thesis here. The first point is that the state that I have found is that we are dealing with the European Commission, which sets out certain procedures, some directions, and this is due to the notification process of the social agreement concluded in May. R. That means that... How do I put this... [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] Your marshal, given the importance of the case, I'd ask you to extend your time, okay?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u174	You're welcome, Minister. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Piotr Pyzik: Thank you very much, Marshal. It's a basic issue. Therefore, today, at a time when Polish mining would simply resume operations, the European Commission would rightly say that we do not respect certain regulations, certain legal solutions. And we're as a country. not only are we a loyal member of the European project, which is called the European Union, but we are also a democratic country, a country that is trying to resolve at least the question of obtaining this energy in its own space, because we want... I would like to stress this very much: our government will do everything to make us energy independent, as much as possible. What's with the mines? The point is fabulously simple, but difficult, on the other hand, to be realised, because the resumption of coal production means: option one - we resume work in some corridors of concrete mines because of analyses which show that this is the most effective in terms of profitability of operations. But to do that, the mine has to buy machines, equipment, hire people, and it's not 10, 20 people, but it's hundreds of people. On the other hand, there is also the question that the time needed to reorganize such a wall is - depending on what the wall is, what are simply technical conditions - in my opinion a minimum of 2-3 years, real from 3 to 5 years. This is the period after which we can expect - if we decide that we want to run Polish coal in full - that the real market will be saturated with Polish coal. But that's not all. Here's the thing: if we're talking about the mine, about the reactivation, so to speak, the mine's operations, we have to figure out -- because that's the point of the case -- the time that this mine on this wall is going to be mining coal. If the investment is going to last from 3 to 5 years and costs hundreds of millions - because we're talking about these amounts - then you can't do that after these 3, 5, 7 years, when this mine starts mining this coal, it's going to do this for 1 year or 2 years, because it's just not possible. No mine manager or CEO of any mining company will ever sign such a motion because they're just gonna be scared. Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to emphasise the most important thing: we need today's analyses of the national energy system, because coal is not used to extract nice black coal, but to satisfy what we call the national energy system. This is the cloud of the matter: the energy balance must agree with us. As someone here has said, the point is that every Pole, regardless of the political color, has a contact at home with the electricity in which he has all his beliefs. The current may not be cheap, but the point is that every Pole, every citizen of our country can afford electricity. The most important thing from the point of view of the government and my humble person: coal or raw materials, which are to go to this energy, to electricity in contact, are to be Polish. Because this is today's definition of sovereignty of the Polish state. I would suggest looking at it in a different context. Someone was moving it around here. We're a front country. Whether we like it or not, nothing after February 24 will be the same as it was before. And we have to live with that. Thank you. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, is also asking for the floor. You're welcome, sir, but it's so short.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u175	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment tabled by the Civic Platform concerning the supervision of the Higher Mining Authority is an amendment that... Actually, I don't know if it makes sense, because a change in supervision of the Higher Mining Authority took place in 2004. It must be borne in mind that it has been so many years and today, let's say, with regard to this proposal for a change, I do not see any special meaning here. In today's speech by Mr Sosnierz - yes, he is here in the plenary room - it is said that... Because the employees of the mining office are mainly people with high qualifications, with extensive knowledge and above all taking care of the safety of the miners. They're not parasites. If you have the will to apologize to all these employees, possibly meet them and explain the situation, find out who the parasite is to you. The same can be said of us, of parliamentarians. Some people are gonna say we're parasites, too. This is very unfair and inappropriate. [[Voice from the room: Sometimes it is.]] Oh, I heard from him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u176	Please, sir... Okay? The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on a draft law amending the Law - Water Law and certain other laws (prints No 2262 and 2283). I kindly ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u177	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I present a report on a government draft law amending the Water Law Act and some other laws. The project is included in print No 2262. It entered the Sejm on 10 May 2022, on 16 May was sent to the committee's first reading, and on 25 May, the joint committees joined in detailed work on the project, which resulted in the joint committee's report of 2283 being presented here. High Izbo! Council Directive 91/271/EEC on urban waste water treatment should have been fully implemented by 31 December 2015, when the transitional period negotiated at the accession stage of Poland to the European Union expired. She didn't. At the date of expiry of this deadline, 31% were completed. the necessary equipment, as stated by the relevant 2015 Supreme Audit Chamber report. At present there are also shortcomings in the designation of agglomerations, i.e. the adoption of resolutions by the relevant local councils in agreement with the National Water Farm of Poland, and in determining the requirements which the agglomeration must meet. We're talking about art. 3, Article 4, Article Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 10 Wastewater Directives. There is currently a procedure against Poland for failure to comply with the sewage directive, which is primarily based on the failure of municipalities to take the necessary measures, as well as the lack of effective mechanisms for mobilising and sanctioning obliged persons. The infringement procedure covers 1285 agglomerations in 1587 included in the fifth update of the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Programme. Of course, there are more municipalities that do not meet the requirements, because one agglomeration can include one or more municipalities. The European Commission's allegations raised in the reasoned opinion include, first and foremost, the absence of municipal or individual waste water collection systems that ensure the same level of environmental protection when connection to the system causes excessive costs and insufficient level of waste water treatment. The measures for the collection and treatment of municipal waste water also indicate the reports of the Supreme Audit Chamber, later than that of 2015, which I referred to at the beginning. The sewage collected by the assenic rolling stock is often directed to a treatment plant that does not meet the requirements. The municipalities shall not control the frequency of emptying of liquid and household waste water treatment tanks. On the other hand, operators carrying out services of drainless tanks and the transport of liquid impurities are not adequately controlled, i.e. do not report as required and there are no legal instruments to withdraw their authorisation to perform these services in the event of failure to comply with their reporting obligations. There are also no clear rules for dealing with liquid impurities from home installations, and in many municipalities there are no bodies receiving such impurities. High Izbo! The rules on water and legal permits for domestic waste water treatment plants cause a lot of interpretation problems. Similarly, the provisions on the designation of a change or liquidation of an agglomeration are unclear. There are also no precise rules for the cooperation of municipalities with the State Water Management of Polish Waters in the area of updating the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Programme, as well as reports on the implementation of the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Programme, and it is clear that these reports are the primary source of reliable data in this area. They should be as a starting point for planning further necessary actions. High Izbo! The proposal amends the Law of 20 July 2017 - Water Law, the Law of 13 September 1996 on the maintenance of cleanliness and order in municipalities and the Act of 7 June 2001 on collective supply of water and collective discharge of waste water. The Act - Water Law is amended by 15 amendments. They are going in this direction to satisfy everyone when it comes to the shortcomings that I mentioned in the first part of my speech. But I would like to draw attention to one of these 15 amendments, namely the addition of heading XIa: administrative fines. These penalties may be imposed for failure to submit revised reports, i.e. this is the mechanism under which, where the report is incomplete, it may be requested to be supplemented or corrected, in addition to and for one, and may be disciplined for the other. The same applies to the submission of revised or supplemented surveys for updating the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Programme and the penalty imposed by the competent authority of Polish Waters can be up to 10 000. zł. Penalties may be imposed when the agglomeration does not meet the conditions referred to in Article. 87a and the municipalities bear these costs in proportion to the size of the equivalent number of inhabitants of the municipality in the agglomeration. This provision, of course, responds to issues related to the fact that often the agglomeration is created by two or more municipalities and the distribution of the burden must be proportionate. As regards the amount of penalties, the municipalities shall bear them in proportion to the size of the equivalent number of inhabitants of the municipality in the agglomeration, and their amount shall be up to PLN 200 for each equivalent number of inhabitants corresponding to the load of impurities which is not collected and purified in accordance with the requirements of that already established Article. 87a. The changes introduced are intended to ensure that all municipalities carry out investments in properly designated agglomerations, as well as appropriate legal, organisational and financial conditions, enabling them to carry out all the tasks planned in the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Programme. High Izbo! Several legislative amendments have been introduced in the course of the project. 2, 7 and 9. The joint committees rejected the proposal for an amendment requested by the Polish Waterworks Economic Chamber, to the following article. 87a Act - Water Law. This amendment would undermine past agreements with the European Commission, as the condition that 98% is non-negotiable waste water from agglomerations above 2 000 RLMs should be cleaned by sewerage networks and the remaining 2% pollution loads should also be treated in a way that does not impair the quality of the environment. High Izbo! The whole of these changes from Article. 1, this must be pointed out, and it meets the requirements of the European Union. I would like to draw attention to the need to implement a milestone relating to the monitoring and control of individual waste water treatment systems, which is included in the KPO. This is reform B3.1. Support for sustainable water and sewage management in urban areas, with a view to B3. Climate change adaptation and reduction of environmental degradation. Like I said, the project refers to three laws. Formal allegations should also be mentioned, which is a bit earlier than in the case of Water Law, in connection with the incorrect transposition of part of the provisions of Directive 2006/7/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 15 February 2006 concerning the management of bathing water quality and repealing Directive 76/160/EEC. In particular, it is a question of incorrect transposition of the provisions of the Directive. I would like to point out that in the Water Law adopted on 20 July 2017 there is a whole chapter on the quality of bathing water, which almost expressis verbis, in word, introduces the provisions of the Directive. However, as you can see, this requires clarification, which is why this is the case in this draft law. Also, High Izbo, I want to pay attention to the regulations concerning the National Water Farm of Poland. The aim is to allocate funds from special grants from the State budget allocated to PGW WP. There are also provisions that clarify these issues. There are also provisions that respond to the lack of possibility for Polish Waters to introduce economic activity in the field of electricity generation in renewable energy sources, which prevents the full use of the assets managed by Polish Waters, i.e. the full exploitation of the potential of these properties of the State Treasury which the Polish Waters manage, and it is necessary to clarify these provisions so as to. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The total report of the joint committees was adopted by 30 votes in favour, with no votes against and five abstentions. On behalf of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy and the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, please adopt a draft law amending the Act - Water Law and certain other laws contained in the report of the Joint Committees in print No 2283. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u178	Thank you very much, Madam President, for the comprehensive report. High Izbo! The gallery listens to our discussions a group of students from the primary school in God, who arrived at the invitation of Mr Mariusz Trepka. Welcome. [[Applause]] I hope this will be a very interesting lesson for you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mariusz Trepek, so the young people have sat down at the gallery at the right time. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u179	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First, I will greet my students at the primary school in God and the people of God. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law adapts national law to Union law, precisely to Directive 97/271/EEC, called the Wastewater Directive. The draft also amends the Act of 20 July 2017 - Water Law and other laws. The proposed changes aim, in the first point, at the need to implement a milestone for monitoring and control of individual waste water treatment systems included in the National Plan for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity, in the framework of reform B3.1. Supporting sustainable water and sewage management in rural areas, as set out in Objective B3. Climate change adaptation and reduction of environmental degradation. It is about adapting the existing rules in order for Poland to comply fully with the above requirements. Directive, clarification of procedures related to the designation, amendment or elimination of agglomerations, improvement of procedures related to the national urban waste water treatment programme, in particular reporting procedures, clarification of the reporting scope, changes in water legislation on actions requiring water authorisation, ensuring adequate quality of treatment of waste water from waste water-free tanks and domestic waste water treatment plants, depending on the size of the agglomeration from which it comes, and laying down administrative fines for infringements of agglomeration obligations in relation to their adaptation to the requirements of the above. directives. The project also provides for clarification and clarification of the responsibilities of municipalities, in particular the records and reports on the management of liquid pollutants, clarification and separation of issues concerning the clearing of settlers in waste water treatment plants and the transport of waste water from domestic waste water treatment plants, as regards the obligations relating to the maintenance of cleanliness and order relating to property owners, municipalities and businesses carrying out their activities in this area, clarification of the scope and procedure for adopting a multiannual plan for the development and modernisation of water supply facilities and sewage systems. The draft law also provides for the elimination of doubts regarding the form of grants to Polish Waters from the state budget and the introduction of the possibility to grant subjective grants instead of purely targeted grants. This amendment is intended to ensure that the form of grants is adapted to legal requirements. The bill also provides for the implementation of the conclusions of the Supreme Audit Chamber. The draft law will have an impact on the activities of micro-entrepreneurs, small and medium-sized enterprises receiving liquid impurities from the waste water treatment plant from the owners of the real estate, when it will be necessary to obtain a permit to operate in this area. The obligation to obtain an authorisation for economic operators in this area will not entail the creation of new costs for economic operators. The draft law will have a positive impact on households in replacing the obligation to obtain water law permits by water law application. In addition, information obligations will be extended for entrepreneurs seeking authorisation to empty settlers in the waste water treatment facilities and to transport liquid impurities from the waste water treatment facilities. The draft law is compatible with EU law. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice welcomes the draft law and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u180	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Mr Artur Łącki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition on the government draft law amending the Law - Water Law and some other laws contained in print No. 2262. The project aims to bring Polish legislation into line with EU law, i.e. so-called. a waste water directive, which governs the principle of urban waste water disposal and management of bathing water quality. The amendment will also allow the closure of infringement proceedings and avoid possible penalties if the European Commission refers the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union. Act - Water Law, which regulates, among others, waste water management issues have been in force since 1 January 2018. The need for change was known for a long time, and in May 2020 the government received it written in black and white. The European Commission then issued a reasoned opinion on Poland's failure to fulfil the so-called obligations. the sewage directive. The Commission recalled, among other things, that the requirements of the Directive should be met by 2015. In the meantime, more than 1 000. the agglomeration still does not have a municipal waste water collection system that meets EU requirements. The government hasn't made a move in two years. It was only the announcement to refer the case to the Court of Justice of the European Union and the spectrum of payment of billions of penalties that led the rulers to be banned from work. The Supreme Audit Chamber estimates that penalties for these deficiencies can amount to up to EUR 6 billion. The government's omissions directly contributed to the maintenance of this law also in the case of the unsavory tradition of law-making. The materials were received by the members of the committee literally a few hours before the committee meeting. Nevertheless, we actively participated in committee work and tabled amendments. After a detailed analysis and consultation, we also make further amendments, including. amendment amending the provision that the proposed sanctioning provision provides for the limitation of cases of supply of liquid impurities to waste water treatment plants which do not ensure an adequate level of treatment for waste water from agglomerations. The projecters propose that the penalty will be imposed not on the waste water manufacturer, but on the plant asensization company, which is only the supplier of these waste water to the treatment plant. After all, if the company receiving the waste water is to bear the risk of paying no penalties for its sins, it will simply give up receipt and the effect will be the opposite to the expected, because the amount of waste water received will still decrease. The authors of the law in the explanatory memorandum mentioned 11 areas of law affected by the proposed amendments and recalled four NIK reports, the conclusions from which they will be implemented through the changes introduced by this project. The project also envisages eliminating doubts about the form of grants granted to Polish Waters from the state budget and introducing the possibility of granting individual grants instead of only targeted grants. This will ensure that the form of grants is adapted to the requirements of the law. In addition, the National Water Farm of Poland will also be able to carry out business activities in the field of renewable energy sources other than water power plants. Although the project was prepared at the last moment, it was still possible to include a record of the need to obtain an opinion of the Polish Waters in the adoption of multiannual plans for construction and modernisation in the municipalities. At the committee meeting, they tried to reassure us that it was just an opinion. Theoretically, yes, but which small, poor government will allow itself to ignore and implement the investment without taking it into account? That's when government funding can be forgotten. In addition, Polish Waters also have control powers and can impose penalties on local governments for failing to comply with the provisions of the Act. Despite the proposals at the committee meeting to clarify these rules, the government majority did not take them into account and eventually it is not known who, for what, how many times and with what frequency can impose fines on local governments for statutory misconduct. Thus, with various opportunities, PiS is slowly and consistently trying to reduce the importance and role of local authorities, pushing together tools that can be disciplined by too independent and independent authorities in the county Poland after various laws. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club is attempting to amend the unfavourable provisions of this draft law, hoping that rational arguments will convince the applicants to accept the amendments we propose. We believe that reason will prevail, but we are aware that this can be difficult. We all realize that Poland cannot afford to pay further penalties for negligence resulting, among others. because of the tardiness and lack of government competence. Therefore, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club, with responsibility for the state's finances, will vote in favour of this bill, even if all our amendments are not taken into account. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u182	Thank you very much, sir. And Mr Przemysław Koperski on behalf of the Left Club. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u183	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Today, apart from the guests from Mom's elementary school, we also host the Tanzanian ambassador who visits the Parliament building. He may not be at the gallery right now, but I very much greet your ambassador. I have the honour to present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left as regards the government draft law amending the Law - Water Law and some other laws, print no. 2262. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Nearly €6 billion could be punished for Poland's failure to implement the EU directive in 2016-2020, so-called. the waste water directive on municipal waste water treatment. The investigation was initiated by the European Commission in 2018. The case is also investigated by NIK. The Supreme Audit Chamber assessed that at national level the public administration did not ensure proper planning and monitoring of waste water management tasks, but also effective implementation of the requirements of national and international legislation. In turn the municipal authorities controlled by NIK did not always provide the standards of proper collection and treatment of municipal waste water and supervision of their handling. The reasons for this are sometimes errors and omissions of controlled entities, but also insufficient regulation, as the Supreme Audit Chamber points out. Today, through this bill, it can be fixed. However, I would like to point out that the Member States of the European Union have been obliged to fully comply with the requirements of the Directive long ago. The European Commission has informed that more than a thousand urban agglomerations in Poland do not have municipal waste water collection systems, which is the same as the fact that waste water is discharged into lakes, rivers, to the sea without any necessary treatment. In the next 415 Polish agglomerations, in which sewage is discharged on the so-called. sensitive areas, the stricter rules for waste water treatment required by the Directive have not been introduced. On the legal steps taken by the European Commission vis-à-vis Poland, the President of the Polish Chamber of Commerce also commented and pointed out that this directive was not implemented in Poland on time. I would like to point out that it is estimated that in the entire Polish water and sewage sector only for the purpose of implementing this directive, which is kind of necessary for us to have clean water in Poland, we need about PLN 44 billion. The state under the programmes assumes that about 20 billion will be spent for this purpose. So there is 20 billion short for us to finally have clean water in Poland and not to flush waste water into the sea and lakes. That is why it is so important to finance the local government units that must carry out these tasks. However, I would like to ask that the draft law of the Left, which provides for an increase in PIT revenue for local government units, should finally introduce 70% to the Sejm and vote on it. Thank you very much. A further part of our position will be presented by Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u184	Please, Mr Jan Szopiński. 1 minute 51 seconds. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u185	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to draw attention to administrative penalties, which may be imposed on various institutions and entities by the Polish Waters, as laid down in the draft law. These penalties, according to the project's record, are intended to affect the institution's account that imposes them and constitute its income. This is the ideal solution, but unfortunately only for one side. It's a little bit like giving police officers the power to issue mandates that would go straight to their budgets. We therefore have doubts about the appeal. If such a penalty is imposed, it will be possible to apply to the Ministry of Environment through Polish Waters. So is the Ministry of the Environment prepared to deal with hundreds, or maybe thousands of complaints against penalties imposed by the Polish Waters, which can make the system of imposing penalties a source of funding for their expenses? This should not be the case, and we call on the resort to reflect on the provisions concerning the imposition of penalties which I am presenting here. In view of the possibilities imposed on Poland by the European Union on the implementation and implementation of these solutions in Poland, we will vote in favour of the bill. However, we kindly ask that what I have said, if not now, be fixed in the future. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u186	Thank you, sir. And Mr Andrzej Grzyb, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u187	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Currently in force: the Act - Water Law, the Law on the maintenance of order and cleanliness in municipalities and the Act on collective supply of water must change, and this is due to the fact that for a long time unfortunately we have had a dispute regarding regulation between these laws and the so-called. the 1991 waste water directive In the draft law, the government as an applicant states that the only means of removing reservations and the European Commission's proposal is to amend the laws and that there are no alternative means to implement the provisions of the directive, as well as the recommendations of the European Commission. Here we have to say that in 2019 we did not purify, we drained almost 3.7 billion m without cleansing. The big problem is the drainless tanks. If, on average, every resident, according to average consumption, consumes 150 l of water, of which 130 l are waste water per person, then here we have a lot to do. In February 2022, the European Commission submitted a request to the Court against Poland for failure to comply with the Directive on waste water treatment. The directive obliged Poland to comply with the provisions by the end of 2015. However, as has been said, 1183 agglomerations do not meet this condition, in 1282 waste water agglomerations are not properly cleaned and 415 agglomerations in sensitive areas also do not meet the standards that would be adequate for these areas. This Decision shall enter The Commission sent a call to Poland to address these shortcomings, and on 14 May 2020 it sent a reasoned opinion on why we should remove these deficiencies. In September 2020, a report was published, the tenth report, where progress was assessed, including Poland, in this respect. At the end of 2021. The Ministry of Infrastructure, in response to the proceedings initiated, submitted to the consultation a draft amendment to the Water Law, which we are investigating today, at the same time indicated what we did in Poland. We have to say that we are very behind despite investing more than PLN 80 billion in the implementation of the national urban waste water treatment plan. Nobody calculates that we are at risk of about EUR 6 billion for non-implementation on the basis of the basis of this calculation. Thus, the issue of liability, the manner of execution, penalties for failure to perform tasks, the issue of non-liquid tanks, the proper removal and execution of tasks in this area - all of this is in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u188	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u189	Final remark: The local authorities stated that 14 days to consult such a project with serious consequences was not enough. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u190	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u191	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We are discussing the implementation of the old EU directive, which will now also be a milestone within the National Plan for Reconstruction, which is the project imposed in Brussels. The PiS agreed to this, and he's gonna try to save the budget so he doesn't lose his power. It's just an introduction. The law itself requires Polish local authorities to adapt their sewage treatment plants according to these EU directives, of course under sanctions. This also applies to domestic treatment plants. Don't you see a certain exaggeration here? Don't you really think that the Union is going too far with its powers? New powers and competences for Polish Water PGW are also being built. In fact, I have doubts as to whether this is needed, despite the quite important strategic importance of the Polish Waters themselves in the national water resource management economy. The question is whether you are ignoring the constitutional principle of subsidiarity once again, because you have a huge tendency to centralize what is happening in Poland. In fact, the only positive thing is the change in water law consent to the application. We also need to remind you of the requirements of the European Union, which you have agreed to, which the PiS has agreed to, in order to get money from KPOs at all. This will be a total of 48 reforms, 116 milestones, 54 investments - we will see how we turn out - and there will be 166 indicators. The question at what rate do you really want to achieve this because we know that most of these decisions are probably agreed with the left-liberal opposition, even at the level of the European Parliament. These requirements probably apply to all areas of our lives - from systemic issues to energy, even to household sewage treatment plants. I don't think there's an area where the European Union doesn't want anything from us. You talk about independence, you talk about sovereignty, you want to nurture it, and once again we have a sale of our decision-making to Brussels. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u192	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun. 38 seconds - that's all your friend left you. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u193	God bless you! Let's get this straight. You look deep in your pockets, you look in your pockets, you look in your fireplaces, because you have introduced these regulations that tell you to check in, what someone warms up, especially the next winter it will be important, a chrust + beam, and now you want to look even where the king walks. That's where you dive to get money from the Poles. We do not oppose the cleanliness of water, air, healthy life in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We oppose the omnipotence of the administration, we oppose... Your Marshal, that's an important sentence. ...the administrative mode of imposing penalties, often draconian. We demand you guys to get your shit together. Let's go to court if there are disputes, if there are conflicts, but let's not be a discretionary decision of the officials. Is anyone here today from Polish Waters at all in this room?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u194	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u195	Your Marshal, can you ask if there's any of the Polish Waters? Because this is the Act on Omnipotence of Polish Waters, so it would be good...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u196	The Minister will refer. Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha on behalf of the Polish 2050 club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u197	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 in relation to the law contained in print no. 2262. Ladies and gentlemen! What's the output state we're talking about in this bill? First of all, we have dirty and polluted water. And this is actually the most important thing that concerns this law: dirty and polluted water in Polish rivers and in Polish lakes. We also have 21%. Polish agglomerations, which are adapted to laws, to EU directives, i.e. those which ensure that waters near them can suffer less. 21%. We have 1000 agglomerations that are not adapted, and another 415, where there is much to improve. We have the prospect of paying 6 billion euros of penalties for non-adjustment, for the fact that we are simply polluting Polish rivers and Polish lakes. And in this situation, we get a law that is absolutely not an ideal law, but a necessary law, which also raises our great reservations, mainly because it places responsibility on governments for what the government did not do. Today we get a law in which local governments are supposed to pay penalties, which are relatively small, 10,000. zł, but it is not known in what mode and in what frequency these authorities are to pay these penalties. [[Don't you know the rules of local government?]] I would say to the Minister: Minister, maybe you should punish yourself for taking so long to present these solutions to us, this bill. The rapporteur said that, indeed, the deadline for adapting to this directive was in 2015, at the end of 2015. That's true, but you've been seven ever since. It's as if the Platform in 2014 blamed the PiS government. You had seven years to do it. And you didn't do anything. I will repeat once again that this is a law that is needed, which is necessary, because this is a law that adapts us to the so-called. the sewage directive. It is a law that deals with the management of bathing water quality, where we also have a lot to do. This is also the implementation of a milestone for monitoring the monitoring of individual waste water treatment systems. This is a necessary law, which is why we will vote for it, still having a very negative opinion on the work of this government, about the fact that this government is simply trying to lay down responsibility on others instead of working properly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u198	Thank you very much, Member. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. But before we get to the questions, I would like to warmly welcome the scouts who came to us from Vilnius, the team environment. Andrzej Małkowski, co-founder of Polish scouting. Welcome. [[Applause]] The first question will be asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u199	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! One of the key elements of the water management policy of the State is to counter what has happened in recent years, namely the drying of water reservoirs. This is what happened and what happened in the Gniezno Lake District in Wielkopolska, Kujawsko-Pomorskie, where droughts, the operation of brown coal mines and other causes cause that some water reservoirs in general disappeared, and in part, as research shows, the water mirror decreased by a few meters. The plan was presented by the Polish Water Farm to repair this situation. In view of the above, I would like to ask: are there secured resources for the implementation of this plan and how will the KPO's resources be used to invest more sustainable water management in rural areas? Will it also be possible to use this programme in the implementation of these projects? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u200	Thank you, sir. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. There isn't. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Left. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u201	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The state of waste water management in Poland is in terrible condition. Okay. 80%. Waste water collection and treatment systems need to be modernised or simply constructed. I have a question in view of the fact that current waste water collection and treatment systems are designed in such a way that municipal waste water and industrial waste water are linked together, which undermines the costs of processing these waste water, because very often in industrial waste water there are unusual substances, often dangerous, which are mixed with municipal waste water and, of course, this system is less efficient and expensive and incompatible with the economy of the closed circuit. Therefore, I have a question: Is there an option (The Bell) for the separation of municipal and industrial waste water streams from the very beginning, i.e. at the source of their formation, taken into account in the case of new design or modernisation of existing systems? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u202	Thank you, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u203	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I would like to ask you about the specific situation of the towns that are located around the water reservoirs, which are a backwater reservoir for many towns. These are situations like this. in the county of Bielski, Żywiec, Lake Porąbka or Lake Żywieckie, where due to the terrain, but also the adopted way of building there will never be enough customers to work on the construction of sewers using EU or government funds, central funds. I would like to ask if there are any changes planned, because there are a lot of houses here that obviously affect the quality of these waters, and the municipalities cannot invest because, in short, they cannot afford it, so they would need a support line. Are you guys thinking about this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u204	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. [[He'll be right there.]] We will not wait for the Member, I apologize. Mrs Ewa Kozanecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u205	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The draft law amending the Act - Water Law and some other laws primarily concerns, among others. the implementation of the milestone relating to the monitoring and control of individual waste water treatment systems included in the KPO and Increased Immunity, as part of reform B3.1. Supporting sustainable water and sewage management in rural areas under Objective B3. Climate change adaptation and reduction of environmental degradation. This in turn involves adapting the rules in order for Poland to fully meet the requirements of the so-called directives. environmental. I have a question about that. Minister, wouldn't the bill have a negative impact on the family, the elderly, the disabled and other citizens or the households? What impact will it have on the activities of those receiving uncleanness? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u206	Thank you, Member. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're working on an amendment to Water Law. I would therefore like to ask if you plan to adapt the Water Law legislation to the housing specialty, it is the so-called. lex developer, which you have prepared yourself, because currently there is no possibility of proceding water law permission for residential investments planned on the basis of the specialty lex developer, because some water law provisions have not been amended. This mainly applies to locations in areas threatened by floods, although, I stress, an investor may obtain permission to locate these investments on the basis of separate regulations. I kindly ask the Minister to respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u208	Thank you, Member. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u209	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On the basis of this bill, the question must be asked: Why are you doing so badly to implement EU law? You might suspect some kind of sabotage, resentment or incompetence, but I don't think so, because there must be some premeditation here. You drag the string as far as you can, there's a threat of punishment, and then there's a reaction. It seems like a pretty bad thing to do. In the explanatory memorandum of the law you write that in the case of more than 700 agglomerations there is a contradiction with the requirements of the sewage directive, but at the same time at the same time there were open sources of funding for the construction of sewage in places that were not adapted to the sewage directive, so this is a kind of schizophrenia. Explain this phenomenon. The effects that were there, I can name them. RDP 2014-2020 - you have opened up the possibility of financing sewage from the action: Basic services for the population and the renewal of the village and it turned out that what was going on in the life of the rural community (the bell) on social infrastructure was almost nothing, because everything went in the sewerage. Such a policy cannot be practiced.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u210	Thank you, sir. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u211	You put another pebble in a bureaucratic garden, or actually bureaucratic, endless thickets, in which it is increasingly difficult for normal Kowalski to find and move. Worse still, you are granting this bureaucratic machine further competence, in this case the competence to discretionaryly punish financial violations, and this punishment, as we hear from this speaker, which is in favour of - the finances - of the penalizing institution. Do you not think, however, that such matters as the care of air, water, soil and compliance with certain rules should be dealt with by some special service which would lead such matters to judgment, so as not to condemn normal residents to the power of bureaucratic machinery? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u212	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u213	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Please take my question as an official, formally satisfactory public report and ask for a written reply. The issue of scandal, every day and week more and more - purchase by the Polish water drones, which are to be monitored, hopefully not private properties, but, let's assume, flood shafts and various dams and installations. Safety first. So these drones, write me what they cost. Is it true that such a drone, art, plus all kinds of stuff to scan the area is maybe even a million zlotys? It is already a thing of great value - no longer a great one, but a great one. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is it true that these drones in the Polish Water District Stations have been lying since last year, we pay for their insurance and they don't work? Write it down for me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u214	Thank you, sir, the question has been asked. Good. Mr Wiesław Buj, Club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u215	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Under the amendment of Water Law, the existing responsibilities of municipalities are clarified. The municipalities concerned will conclude agreements in which they will determine the established municipality competent to carry out the national treatment of municipal waste water and the areas of borders and agglomerations. Shouldn't it ultimately be decided by an overarching, statutory administration? Do we not provide this law with too much competence for regional management of Polish Water Farms? The opinion, reporting, the right to impose fines makes it not a friendly law vis-à-vis municipalities and agglomerations. One record for me is particularly disturbing, and it concerns among others. the right to deliver opinions and recommendations on the merger of municipalities. I am afraid that the entitlement can often be (the bell) a limiter for the realisation of the desire to connect or connect the area to a given municipality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u216	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u217	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I think the main problem of sewage disposal and sewage production is costs. In 21 years, we've done it. Okay. 85,000. km of sewer network. On average, it's not even 2,000. per year. So the question is, because I think there are no other problems, it's not about the rules, it's not about the other things, it's about finding the resources to do the plumbing, doing the sewage treatment plants, putting it all together. How much longer does it take to implement this program? Because it seems to me that this is the key to thinking whether we need to support each other - I'm talking about local governments and the state - and how many kilometres of waste water do we have to build to finish this program and how long? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u218	Thank you. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u219	It is high time for the sewage directive to be implemented. Such a long delay in implementation was unacceptable. It is hardly surprising that the European Commission has opened proceedings against Poland, which is why I wrote an interpellation when the government will finally address this issue. And it's a good thing the government finally prepared a draft law on implementation. But I have a question, Minister, and I ask you to answer in writing. In response to my interpellation, Minister Grybarczyk informed that EUR 204 million of the funds for investments in the water and sewage economy are included in the National Housing Plan. But what will happen if you do not meet the three milestones agreed with the European Commission, without which the money needed and expected by Poles and Poles will not flow so much? Because if you don't keep your word and realize the milestones, not only will there be no KPO money... [[Say it in Euro-Parament.]] ...but we'll also pay huge penalties. Where will you find funds for the implementation of the Directive? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u221	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! The implementation law adapting the Polish legislation to the EU, for which you were 7 years old, is of course processed at the last minute. Poland is threatened with severe punishments, and these punishments are passed by the government to the local government. I have a question, Minister. Polish waters are to impose penalties on local governments. How high? Are these gonna be punishments like rainwater discharge? The Polish waters raised the tax ten times for rainwater discharge. In Lublin, which paid PLN 1 million a year, today amounts to PLN 10 million are collected. And second question: What investments have Polish waters carried out in this area so that the rivers to which rainwater is discharged do not flood the land? Because notoriously the river Bystrica and other rivers are pouring out. And the third question: How will local governments be accounted for, which are associated with the agglomeration bell system? So there are dozens of municipalities, some municipalities meet the requirements and some do not. Will they all be punished ten times? Please respond in writing. [[Applause]] [[Just read the bill. Everything is there, my fellow Member.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u222	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u223	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I think the answer to all these problems is one word: money, because you have to ask yourself why local governments don't care about building this sewer network, and why they don't build this network. Because there are more important things and resources for other purposes. This raises questions. How does the government want to encourage local governments to comply with the provisions of this bill and to comply with the provisions of EU directives? I would therefore ask for information on the financial resources available to local governments today and on what principles. How is it planned to spend these funds under the National Reconstruction Plan, assuming we have access to the resources of the National Reconstruction Plan? And one last thing. There are many sewerage networks, which are due to the fact that the municipalities used the law and said that they did not have financial opportunities, technical connections, are often built by the owners of the houses themselves. Are you planning, in short, to simplify the process of transmitting (The Bell) and buying back these private networks by the municipalities? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u224	Thank you. Member Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u225	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In discussing these reservations which have been raised by the European Commission, it is stated that, as regards those over 1500 agglomerations which do not comply with the provisions of the directive, some reservations concern formal requirements and that it would be relatively easy to remove these reservations in relation to the part of the agglomeration if these formal requirements were met. Is this really the case and how many agglomerations are involved? The second thing is the issue of sewage sludge. I'm talking about it, by the way. Sewage sludge is not just a problem as to how to manage it. In fact, they are a valuable substrate, because in sewage sludge there are up to 30% phosphates. According to the directive, fertilising sludges are also possible to use as a source of phosphates. And the question about the concept: How do we want to manage these sewage sludges in Poland? Not to burn them (the bell), because this is the most common direction of development. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u226	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Please add me to Mr Evening's question about these private networks, whether we will finally force some legislation of the commune, because that is what we need to do, to buy back those networks on which the construction of which, of course, gave permission, and then we do not really know who owns them and what to do with it. That's one thing. Two, I'm going back to those wretched ascension cars. With such a sanctioning record, in the case of how you did it in this bill, there may be a situation that these people will simply stop driving these impurities and change the barrel to so-called. A boat, on the chassis, that's no problem. And it may turn out that either these services are gonna go awfully high, or they won't be there at all, and we're gonna have a big problem. Isn't there some other way to solve this? These two issues: a sanctioning provision and private sewerage networks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u229	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have one very important question regarding the content of this project. It refers to municipal waste water, significant changes in the number of people living in a given agglomeration. I have a question to the Minister: Doesn't the government see the need for any amendments to the content of this document, amendments that would take account of the changed situation in Poland when it comes to the number of people living in the cities concerned? Exactly the issue of our guests from Ukraine. Doesn't the government see the need to include the influx of the population into important urban areas under the provisions of this law? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u230	Thank you. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u231	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Indeed, Solidarna Polska is the leader in the preparation of legislation that tightens the law in the field of environmental crime prosecution. Today, such regulations are prepared in the Ministry of Climate and Environment by Deputy Minister Jack Ornament. I am convinced that there will be a post-political consensus on this matter. But in this case I am in favour of strengthening institutional and effective supervision of Polish Vodka over local governments, because the example of Warsaw, where the Civic Platform has been ruling for 16 years and in an absolutely inept way has led to the contamination of the Vistula, to the Chaika... Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz, Rafał Trzaskowski, tw. Europeans are responsible for the largest environmental disaster in the European Union. It is good that Polish Waters will have the opportunity to really supervise such self-governments, because unfortunately there are self-governments who, instead of working, deal with events, which we see here, in Warsaw - the biggest environmental scandal of the Civic Platform, which for 16 years has not been able to effectively lead to the end of one issue (Dzinek), i.e. Tchajki to usability. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u232	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u233	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I think you've made a mistake. Don't leave. Listen to me. The Supreme Audit Chamber reported that the so-called non-implementation in 2016-2020. The EU waste water directive can cost Polish taxpayers up to EUR 6 billion in penalties. Guess we got a lot of money if we're just gonna work for punishment. Planning and monitoring of waste water management tasks is not one of the easiest things in Poland, but does not mean that almost nothing should have been done in this case over the last few years. What is the reason why we're only investigating such an important project now? Is the law considering the possibility of increasing the level of co-financing of waste water management tasks in a non-refundable form in areas covered by the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Programme? What about local self-government units (the bell) that cannot afford to make their own contribution to these investments and participate in the national urban waste water treatment programme? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u234	Thank you very much. And the last question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would very much ask for information about the funds already spent by the various regional branches of the Polish Water farm in each part of our country this year, how many of these funds were earmarked for flood protection. However, as we know perfectly well, the flood causes the pouring of water and possible contamination of these waters through biological sewage treatment plants. How many of these funds were spent by the end of May? How much longer are you planning on spending? What investments are you planning, with particular emphasis on RZWG in Gliwice? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u236	Thank you very much, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Mark Grybarczyk to answer the questions raised.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u237	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the beginning, maybe a few words that should be said in terms of implementation, first of all, or the implementation of Water Law, which, of course, involves sewage policy. This concerns very many questions that have been raised here. In the meantime, you should ask yourself these questions, above all about the Civic Platform and PSL, because Water Law should be adopted as part of the waste water management plan by 2015. Nothing like that happened. And perhaps the greatest hypocrisy has been shown here by Mrs Mucha, who was a minister in the government to whom the obligation to carry out these tasks belonged, and now, as it turns out, she is no longer responsible for anything. Let's just leave it on the side. Ladies and gentlemen! As part of the implementation of waste water policy, we have achieved a positive result for the first time in terms of the number of agglomerations that meet the standards for waste water policy compared to those that do not meet those standards. It is already 847, the year 2021, fulfilling these conditions, 677 still does not meet them. Therefore, the implementation of the programme is based on the adopted national waste water treatment programme, which aims to adapt situations in all agglomerations and generally sewage policy to the appropriate quality of waste water discharges to Polish waters. To answer your questions... Mr Tomaszewski asked the question, differing from the subject, in particular on anti-drying policy. We have launched some extremely important programs, which are primarily designed to retrace water. These are programmes for the development of retention, the development of trough and valley retention, countering the effects of drought. These programmes are intended to increase water retention in Poland to 15% in the period up to 2027. . Let me remind you that today this level reaches 7% when it comes to the amount of water that is stopped coming through the territory of Poland. Mrs Sowińska asked about the issues of industrial waste water. It is not possible to build separate treatment plants for production plants and for the population of the locality. Each plant shall have the task of carrying out a process of sewage treatment and discharge into the general, municipal system, which is available in the area concerned. These sewers must simply meet the standards and must not be dropped without a cleaning process. As far as Mr Suchon is concerned, yes, absolutely so - we have foreseen measures relating to investments in non-agglomeration areas. Moreover, the total amount that we have estimated on the basis of the sixth update of the National Urban Waste Water Treatment Programme is PLN 13.5 billion. We're setting up investments at this level. In this area, we have prepared appropriate programmes to support municipalities in carrying out these tasks. This is BGK, which will contribute PLN 4 billion annually to this policy under its investment programme. The FENIKS programme for the period 2001-2027 allocates about PLN 4.5 billion to the implementation of waste water policy. In addition, regional programmes, i.e. RPOs, which are not yet defined, but they will also provide for investment and funding for water and sewage policy. Of course, there are also funds of NFŚ and WFŚ - it is a value of almost PLN 3600 million. These measures will be targeted at water and sewage policy in agglomeration areas, because these are the most important elements for us to get agglomerations to an indicator that will be the right basis for assessing, above all, the positive element of water and sewage policy. Extra-agglomeration actions in the field of municipal support are pilot and priority programmes under the NFŚ, i.e. almost PLN 710 million, the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020, except that with settlement by 2025, i.e. PLN 376 million, the FIZAN Local Investment Programme, which also assumes support for local authorities in the framework of the application for funds, the National Plan for Reconstruction and Increasing Immunity, i.e. KPO - PLN 918 million, the government fund of Poland Ład - PLN 4.8 billion. In addition, 4 billion PLN were allocated from the state budget. There are also subsidies, a development grant of PLN 3 billion. So the measures that have been prepared for this situation cover the demand - 13.5 billions. We are not able to determine in the end what the needs of the municipalities are, because these are the tasks of the municipalities to assess their actions. The demagogy you're trying to use... On the one hand, you want to determine exactly what the municipalities are going to do, and on the other hand you say that we cannot get into the competence of the municipality - that's just turning the cat around with a tail. We have prepared solutions to help municipalities, for example to evaluate their action programmes, so that we know that Polish Waters know what the scope of the investment is, whether it will be implemented in accordance with the KPOŚK programme and whether it will concern the agglomeration. So it is obvious, and this is criticised by your Members, that this cannot be done. So how do you control or even know what's going on? It's absolutely the community's own tasks. There has been a whole negotiation process and we have achieved a compromise in certain areas, not in all areas, for example in the case of penalties. Municipalities, local authorities do not want to impose penalties on residents who do not adapt their systems to the discharge network, and this is the task of the municipality. On the other hand, they want us to implement policies on the basis of sanctions that should be imposed. That was one of the main reasons for the dispute. The second is, of course, the time of implementation of this investment. As we have reached a compromise with the European Commission, this policy is to be completed by 2027. On this basis, this date was adopted, which is not in line with what the local authorities want. Of course, as far as the size of the agglomeration is concerned, we are not going to regulate it, because this is a local government task, so that the municipalities can get along and determine what the agglomeration areas are, because this is primarily their duty, and not the State's order or taking on the competences that you are still fighting for, you want the municipalities to have these competences. This is duality present in your questions, which we simply do not understand. As far as investment issues are concerned, I have already said: 13.5 billions. This is to be achieved by 2027. 40 agglomerations will not meet all the requirements of the national urban waste water treatment programme, but this also depends primarily on the municipalities which have to prepare solutions in this respect. As far as refugees from Ukraine are concerned, we have standards for the construction of water and sewage networks - 120 people per kilometer of the newly built network. This will be the basis for later discussions with the European Commission, if this problem is actually increasing, and it will certainly be when it comes to increasing the number of Polish residents. We assume that we will have to negotiate and possibly change some restrictions. Ladies and gentlemen! I think the rest of the questions will be answered in writing. For most of the questions, I think, I answered. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u238	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur, Anna Paluch, also asked for the floor. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u239	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have an impression from the speeches and the club, and with the questions that you have not listened to me. I started with the information that on 31 December 2015, i.e. the date of expiry of the derogation of the sewage directive, 31% the necessary equipment was made. That was the deadline. And you guys don't listen at all. I've been hearing about the government's omissions, tardiness and incompetence. Which one? May I remind you that this deadline of 31 December 2015 was the deadline to be fulfilled 100% necessary equipment, but there were still intermediate deadlines: 31 December 2010 when 86% pollution cargo should be removed and 31 December 2013 when 91% the cargo of impurities should be removed. And what did the then PO-PSL government do? He threw both these intermediate terms out of Polish law to make it look nice. That, ladies and gentlemen, is the first line. Line two. I have heard here that the municipalities are to pay for what the government has not done, one of the Members has said so. I would like to remind you that since the adoption of the law of 8 March 1990 on municipal government, the treatment of municipal waste water is a task of the municipalities themselves. Maybe you can reach into the bill and read it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that the municipalities have been left to themselves. At the end of the deadline for the implementation of the Directive, somewhere around 2015, the cost necessary for the execution of investments was estimated at about PLN 40 billion. Of course, time is running out, but I would like to remind you that one of the first draft laws considered in the beginning of the previous term of the Sejm, in December 2015 - print No 103 - was a draft law which I carried out as rapporteur and earlier as an applicant, concerning the abolition of penalties for the discharge of unclean waste water to municipalities. The point is not to drain them from the money yet and to use it to make the necessary investments. The penalties for the discharge of unclean waste water were, ladies and gentlemen, in the law and they come back after these few years. I'm curious -- I'm sure it would have great cognitive value -- how many municipalities that were actually given these penalties have made some effort to make sure that the thing that everyone knew had to be done was done. So, ladies and gentlemen, it's time, in general, to deal with the substance, not the foaming and the hustling. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u240	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration (prints No. 2071 and 2315). I kindly ask Mr Tadeusz Azievicz to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Navigation, I have the honour to present my position on the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration. High Seym! The draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and the Maritime Administration concerns offshore wind farms built in the Polish Exclusive Economic Zone of the Baltic Sea. It also applies to devices used to extract power from them. Its main objective is to ensure safety, to ensure that they meet the relevant requirements in terms of strength, load capacity and stability of the structure, fire safety, safety of use and environmental protection. The project introduces a certification system to confirm compliance of offshore wind farms and equipment with relevant safety and environmental requirements at each stage of the investment. Under this system, tasks concerning certification of surveillance of offshore wind farms in the Polish exclusive economic zone in the Baltic Sea will be performed by so-called. recognised organisations that will be able to obtain authorisation to carry out tasks in this field. Designed rules define the scope of requirements that will be confirmed by the design conformity certificate, the certificate of entry into service and the certificate of operational safety. The proposed solution seems to be similar to the system of supervision of the state administration in Poland and around the world over the construction and operation of offshore vessels and drilling platforms. It shall be based on the activities of specialised institutions recognised by the European Commission, in accordance with European Union legislation, as regards common rules and standards for ship inspection and review organisations. High Izbo! Following the discussion at the meeting on 7 June, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation considered the draft and unanimously recommended that the High Sejm adopt it. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u242	Thank you kindly, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Kacper Płażyński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u243	Dear Marshal! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! It is happening, it is happening and of course we applaud this project, because this is another step towards creating a balanced energy mix in the Polish home and in the Polish economy. The issue of certificates, the establishment of certain procedures is a step in order for the construction of the first wind power plants at sea to actually start in two years, so that in four years we can enjoy the electricity coming from them. Under the rule of law and justice, this investment has moved on. Before, there were not even serious plans for the use of the wind over the Baltic Sea, and it is a great pity, because it is an excellent source of energy. The Baltic Sea has such conditions, such properties that there are very many stormy, windy days and this current is, in comparison with other marine areas, simply very cost-effective. Therefore, our plans, which we consistently implement, are implemented by the Government of Law and Justice, i.e. the construction of a nuclear power plant - I'm sorry, this is also very important - wind power plants up to 2030, which are supposed to power our economy up to 7 GW, and by 2040 up to 10 GW, these are plans very important, strategic for our security, also for our portfolio in the context of CO emissions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u244	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This time, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition has the honour to present its position on the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and the Maritime Administration. High Seym! As rapporteur for the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, I presented the main objectives of this project. I would like to remind you that it concerns offshore wind farms built in the Polish exclusive economic zone of the Baltic Sea and equipment used to extract power from them. Its main objective is to ensure safety, to ensure that they meet the relevant requirements in key areas. To this end, a certification system will be used to confirm compliance of offshore wind farms and equipment with the relevant safety and environmental requirements at each stage of the investment. The tasks in this area will be carried out by the so-called. recognised organisations which are authorised to do so. The proposed rules define the scope of requirements to be confirmed by the design conformity certificate, the certificate of entry into service and the certificate of operational safety. The proposed solution is not controversial, it seems to be in line with European standards. In preparing the position of the club, I consulted with the National Chamber of Maritime Affairs and experts with safety achievements. These entities did not raise objections. High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition recommends that the High Sejm adopt the report of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u246	Thank you, sir. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, on behalf of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u247	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I have the pleasure of presenting an opinion on the Law amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration. By calming the Minister, calming the High House, I would like to say that the Left Club supports this bill. It is a project that actually introduces safety solutions for investments in wind farms at sea, but also issues relating to electricity production produced by these farms, which is undoubtedly very important. Such order is very necessary and very deliberate. Therefore, I think that in the High House this bill will not cause any controversy, because it is necessary to run this process at all. Of course, this bill is an opportunity to unfortunately strongly criticise the government's actions in this and the previous term of office, the United Right Government, in terms of energy security and the development of wind energy, including wind energy in the Baltic Sea. Mr Kowalski nods because he is a great supporter of coal. The Left, on the other hand, is a great proponent of moving away from coal, and today's energy crisis is the best way to show who was right in all of this, and the negligence and lack of action by the United Right Government in this and the previous term have led to the situation that we have today. I would just like to remind you that, as regards issues relating to the Act on the Promotion of Electricity Generation in offshore wind farms, it was adopted on 17 December 2020. So in short, you lost 5 years - you took over the government in 2015. - to carry out at least a formal instrument for these investments. Why did you lose it? You have lost because in 2015 and 2016 you spoke publicly - what Mr Kowalski and his colleagues say today - that we have 200 years of coal and we will base the whole economy on coal. It is your fault that today we pay 1,200 PLN for 1 MWh of coal-produced energy, while the last auctions, in terms of the energy produced from windmills, are the amount of 160-200 PLN for 1 MWh. Therefore, Poles need to know by whom today we have such energy prices in Poland. Because of you guys, because of these omissions. In 2016, you made a decision that practically stopped the development of wind energy on land. What caused this? This has led to the fact that today, in short, we have great problems in terms of energy networks, in terms of investment in renewable energy. In this way, you have also stopped any processes concerning the development of offshore wind energy. Let me just remind you that today, as far as the potential of the Baltic Sea is concerned, this potential is estimated at around 93 GW. At 40 GW, which Poland needs, we see what potential this is. As far as Poland is concerned, you plan to build 11 GW by 2040. Minister, we really don't have time for this anymore. Today Germany already has over 1 GW and by 2030 they plan to have another 20 GW. Therefore, today, when we adopt this bill, we want to see clearly what your plans are for the construction of these power plants, and how energy companies implement government policy on energy policy. For the sake of clarity, energy companies have signed an agreement in 2021 (the bell), which is the best indication of what they have been doing for six years since 2015. Nothing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u248	Thank you, sir. I don't think it's a good time to appeal to German energy policy. Mr Marek Sawicki, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u249	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Speaking on behalf of PSL, the Polish Coalition on the Law on amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration, I would also like to say, like my predecessor, that we support and accept this Act and will vote for it. Because, of course, the conditions for the production and transmission of wind energy from the Baltic Sea must be defined and must meet standards and requirements so that it is safe and economically sound. In fact, this debate today should indeed be a debate on renewable energy, on energy security, on energy self-sufficiency. I would like to make it clear that all governments over the past 20 years have had large omissions and large negligence in the field of renewable energy, because if we look at today, for example, those so strongly criticised Germany, the potential of their agriculture is about 30%. higher than ours, and at the same time they have 9,000. biogas plants, and Poland has less than 130. It is high time that we created conditions for renewable energy to not only produce it but also transmit it. To this day, the basic element blocking the development of wind energy, photovoltaics, as well as biogas plants are transmission networks - no transmission networks and no connection capacity for energy, so next week on behalf of my club I will submit a bill which will also allow county authorities to build district energy transmission and biogas transmission rings. If we are talking today about the issue of biogas energy, then of course the construction of a turbine or the conversion of biogas into electricity is always associated with the so-called. in combination heat. We're still going to talk about district energy rings and the needs of the entire county, then we have at least eight, 15, or maybe 20 biogas plants at our disposal. There are areas where animal breeding is very strong and widespread. If they were biogas plants, there would also be no odor problems, and there would be no environmental problems. We want to combine these three elements - wind, sun and biogas - into one energy and gas ring. When we don't have enough energy from the sun, from the wind, then we really need energy from the biogas plant. Biogas plants locked in one ring produce electricity when it's missing in this system. On the other hand, when it is not missing in the system, this gas can be compressed, cleaned and used for car transport as well. It can also be designed for the production of hydrogen, and we know that the projects, prototypes of hydrogen cars are already there and soon Poland will also produce them serially. Therefore, it is necessary to allow district governments in consortia or cooperatives, together with local entrepreneurs, not only to build biogas plants, not only to establish photovoltaic installations or to build windmills, but above all to invest in transmission networks. This, of course, can take place with PGNiG, as far as gas is concerned, can also take place with Polish electricity networks, but it is important that local self-governments and local entrepreneurs take part in this, because they provide a guarantee of public consent for such investments and such installations. We still have a situation today in which the stock market... As far as traditional conventional energy is concerned, for 1 MWh, it is about 1,000. zł, sometimes over 1 000. zł. Indeed, renewable energy - whether from the wind or from the sun or from biogas - is often cheaper not only by 50% but even by more percentage. It seems to me that this solution is possible to introduce just within the districts, at least those that have up to 50,000 cities. residents, because within 3-5 years in these districts total energy self-sufficiency can be achieved based on renewable energy. And Polish coal and Polish gas resources will be needed for a long time by industry, conventional energy, for example for fertilizer production. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u250	Thank you, sir. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, on behalf of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u251	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental draft law amending the Law on Maritime Safety and the Law on Maritime Areas of the Republic of Poland and Maritime Administration. Ladies and gentlemen! The draft law contains provisions aimed at ensuring safety during the construction and operation of offshore wind farms in the Polish exclusive economic zone of the Baltic Sea. In order to achieve this objective, the project provides for a number of provisions that implement appropriate mechanisms for the supervision of the design, construction and subsequent operation of offshore wind farms and equipment units. This system will include certificates and supervisory activities for the different types at the construction and operation stage of these farms. Ladies and gentlemen! Marine wind farms - I think we have this awareness - are supposed to be one of the pillars of the Polish energy system, and at the same time also provide an impulse, a strong impetus to the development of the economy. According to the assumptions of the energy policy by 2040, the capacity installed in offshore will reach around 5.9 GW by 2030, and then, by 2040, it can be up to 11 GW of energy from offshore wind farms, which is an extremely high potential, also an extremely large challenge. However, it must be said that this is not a debate about this project, because it is, of course, right, it is going in the right direction and we will support it. This is also a debate on renewable energy. It is regrettable to say that if in 2016 the PiS government and the PiS MEPs had not blocked the development of wind energy by blocking in principle Even already built installations, today we would be in a completely different place with the energy crisis. It is worth recalling that those countries that draw a large part of their energy from renewable sources have inflation lower than e.g. Poland, which was to base its energy on coal. Today we know that the government has lied for many years, lied to Poles, claiming that coal is a Polish strategic raw material. Following the Russian Coal embargo, it turned out that the strategic coal of Law and Justice is really Russian coal. Today we know that PiS has supported Russian reinforcements for many years, allowing to increase imports of coal into Poland, which is an absolutely reprehensible practice, while the result of all these negligence for many years and the effect of stopping the development of wind energy is among others. today's energy crisis, which we are dealing with in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! Poland 2050 is a supporter of the rapid development of the area associated with the extraction of energy from renewable sources. We believe that what needs to be bet on today, but not reaching out to people's pockets (the Bell), only using EU funds, is the development of transmission networks. Today, I also call on the government to take effective action to raise funds from the Fund for Reconstruction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u252	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Urbaniak, on behalf of the Confederate Circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u253	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The bill we're discussing about offshore wind power plants is quite reasonable. I don't have any special comments on the bill itself. I see the purpose of such a law, I see its meaning, because the regulations relating to the ability of offshore wind power stations to function are the strategic need of our country. I'll tell you more, the Confederation is very keen to get offshore wind power plants to end up on the Baltic. But, by the way, since we generally have consensus in this Chamber on this issue, let me draw attention to another important issue. It is important to remember that this bill appeared so quickly, because we know that it is another milestone in the National Plan for Reconstruction. Although this law makes sense, you must introduce it once again, because the Union is telling you, and it tells you, because you have agreed to take money from the Union in exchange for subjugating other branches of the Polish economy to Brussels. You agree strategically to liquidate the mine, you agree to tax hard-working people just because, for example. They drive cars. The National Reconstruction Plan will be a loan to us, not a gift from Brussels, because 60% This money, 60 billion that we will get under the KPO as a grant, is supposed to be funds for green transformation and green mobility, electromobility, not e.g. for the fight against inflation, which is also needed today, not for the fight against high fuel prices. We know that the money to come is also money that will be politically subordinate to you. I would also like to know, Mr Minister, how much of this money from the National Reconstruction Plan will go into other important investments for us and other safe energy sources, such as. nuclear power plants, because the plan assumes, as far as I know, that this is where there will be no funding. I think you guys can handle it, since your government gets up so often. Remember, you're already selling mines, selling our chances, our dreams of finally having a nuclear power plant. If you don't get the money here, will you get it from the Poles, or is there another magical way to do it? Let us remember that global energy is growing all the time, the need for more megawatts and many countries can get richer, and we, as Poland, can have a problem with this, because focusing only (The Bell) on renewable energy will not satisfy our energy needs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u254	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time for questioning - one minute. The first question is asked by Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u255	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Support for the development of renewable energy sources is one of the objectives of the National Reconstruction Plan. I would like to ask the Minister what programmes are foreseen in the National Reconstruction Plan for renewable energy sources that will be supported and ask about this project that we are discussing today. Is wind energy Is it among those milestones too? If so, how much will be allocated? The second point concerns the revision of the so-called. the distance bill for which local governments are seeking because they have not been able to implement housing policy for a long time, so they call on the government to amend the law. At what stage are the works and when will this project go to Parliament? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u256	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u257	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Wind energy is the cheapest energy in Poland. E.g. In December, the most expensive month in years, the price of electricity without wind power would be twice as high. Despite these obvious economic benefits, PiS stubbornly blocks the development of wind energy on land, and plans to build wind farms at sea do not exploit all the potential that is estimated at 28 GW. The area of the Polish exclusive economic zone is approx. 22,5 thousand. km
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u258	Thank you. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u259	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I wanted to ask you at what stage are the work on the bill to unlock the possibility of implementing wind farms on land. This is extremely important to enable municipalities to plan which will ensure that part of their energy independence from external suppliers. Wind energy can be an extremely powerful impulse to this independence. I have a question. There's a bill, there's a bill, the government's working on it, but I think it's very slow. I would very much ask for information on the stage of the project and when it will be addressed to the High House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Azievicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u261	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the discussion held in the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation, a representative of the industry organisation suggested that the introduction of this regulation could slow down the implementation of urgent investments in the context of Poland's security. I did not remember, but the Minister referred to this view, and as rapporteur for the committee, I feel obliged to ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u262	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Marine wind energy is recognised as an area of renewable energy production with the greatest potential for development and the state must therefore support the development of renewable energy sources. It's a good thing this project is being processed today, too bad it's so late. The provisions shall specify the design conformity certificate, the certificate of entry into service and the certificate of operational safety in accordance with European Union legislation. This is a very necessary and energy security project. Any such new investment in wind energy is justified, we must exploit the potential of the Baltic Sea. I wanted to ask how the offshore wind farm projects will be carried out and whether the government has a development plan for these investments. What is the development strategy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u264	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u265	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I am afraid because Mr Kowalski has been here for half an hour now, as I see, he wants to enter this podium. But I take it you're gonna hold out for another minute? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Well, that's great.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u266	Why the fear, sir?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u267	I don't know. [[He's getting excited.]] I have the following question. We talk about wind farms at sea, we talk about giant gigawatts when it comes to power. The question is about transmission networks. Unfortunately, this is another failure of the PiS government, because in 2016 the momentum for the construction of transmission networks was spent more than PLN 2 billion, but already in 2020 it was the amount of less than PLN 1 billion, so this is a narrow throat. And here's the question. The National Reconstruction Plan also provides for funds for transmission networks, because without this we will not be able to develop this energy. So how do you plan to mobilise these funds, and for what investments do you plan to transfer these funds? The point is for this network to be able to receive electricity (the bell) produced at sea. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u268	Thank you, sir. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Just don't scare the Member. [[Yeah, 'cause I was scared here, so...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u269	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In reply to my esteemed colleague Dariusz Wieczork, a Member with whom I very much like to debate, I will answer with facts. First, RES are the most expensive energy produced in the world without subsidies. German model - 13 billion euro grant in 2021 Marine wind farms - definitely yes, but without subsidies they will not arise. In KPO this is 15 billion PLN. If it's so profitable, why don't the companies pay for it themselves? [[Voice from the room: How much coal is it?]] Another thing. The cheapest in Poland is electricity produced from coal, but it is artificially taxed by the European Union by EU ETS, which is also worth remembering. [[Applause]] In other words, wind farms on land, which is a distance bill, is in my opinion only the support of the German lobby. [[Mother, man...]] Let's remember, The Germans built a lot of windmills, and what? And consumption, coal demand is rising from 107 million tons in 2020 to 126 million tons in 2021. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, let us bet on Polish coal, defending Polish coal, not going towards the German model that went bankrupt. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u270	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u271	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! In this Act, all equipment intended to be used for the construction of wind farms at sea is certified for all technical certificates. These certificates are really a lot. I have a question: How will European Union foreign companies put such farms in their countries, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, say - Belgium does not have access to the sea, I apologise - will they have to obtain the same certificates too? The point is whether these companies will be subject to the same rules or whether we happen to be doing too much of this when it comes to our entrepreneurs. I didn't find one certificate, and I want to ask you about it. This is a critical infrastructure, and we wouldn't want any weird companies to start building it for us. Will there be an ABW security certificate for companies that want to build this infrastructure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u272	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'd like to ask you about the offshore wind farms. We read in this document that they meet the requirements for safety and protection of the marine environment, which is understandable for all. However, we continue to read that they are intended to serve as facilities for the protection of the state border at sea and for the defence of the state. And in this connection, Minister: Are offshore wind farms military and under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of National Defence? Whether these farms have and will have a military cast and whether the MON participates in the costs of maintaining wind farms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u274	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have a question for you. I'd appreciate it if you'd be kind enough to answer me in writing if you'd made such a comparison when it comes to windmills with similar parameters, power, at sea and on land. What is the cost of construction at sea, and what is the cost of building windmills on land with similar parameters? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u276	Thank you. Mr Arkadiusz Carrot, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u277	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This Act provides for rules on the certification of these equipment, which will be parts of offshore wind farms. Here the main question is whether these certificates that should be obtained are not too burdensome investments that are planned for development, because the certification for which we will have to pay will be subject not only to those devices that will be at sea, those transformers that will be in the maritime part, but also to what is in the land part. The question is, why is that? Because when we look at projects that concern land parts, including energy, they don't have to be certified that way. I would like to ask the Minister: Do you not think that this is simply imposing additional burdens on the development of wind energy at sea, which will only increase the costs of these projects, because if this does not require certification on land of these parts of land infrastructure (the Bell), then why does the part that carries energy from the sea and is on land have to be subject to additional procedures? Why do you plan to charge it this way? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u278	Thank you. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u279	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In these two contexts. Regarding the first, i.e. certification, I would like to ask: Are there already Polish companies that could meet the conditions that will be certified? I mean whether in some part of Polish industry, Polish economic institutions could participate in the construction of wind farms at sea and whether we can prepare such institutions for this purpose. Second question. Here Mr Wieczorek stressed that while we are waiting for investments in PV farms at sea, we are holding off such investments on land because we are blocking certain capacities and networks. I would like to ask: In relation to when we would plan these investments at sea, how much will we lose potential in those investments that could be made (the bell) on land, holding back the same investments on land? Thank you. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: How many investments do we lose at all?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u280	Thank you. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u281	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! We are very happy with these investments. We hear here that they will finally be realized. But it would be worth reminding once again that in 2016 the PiS government stopped investment and only now the farms have a chance to grow. I even have one of the most important questions. Well, we're all asking about the certification issues, the certification of these companies, the construction of these wind farms, and what happens when these farms stop working? How will they be disposed of? Isn't it worth considering when we're going to certify individual companies when we're preparing specific programs, because in 50 years or 30 years, when we're going to have to take it all apart, we're going to have to put it out, and that's the problem we're going to leave to our kids? It is worth thinking about how to solve it right now. I have a question: Are there any plans at all for the disposal of these buildings after the use (the bell) of their power already? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u282	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Renewable energy sources may have been the foundation for many years, which will build energy security of Poland. But for seven years, the Law and Justice government had not seen green energy sources. Zero-emission was a problem, and thinking about doing it was only in the plans when they talked about electric cars and their million. It's interesting how many millions of electric cars drive in Poland today. And solutions to green energy are the ability to see problems in the future. I wanted to ask you, Minister, if there's work going on, whether you're investing or reaching out to scientific sources that would allow us to store energy. Renewable energy sources are only part of the energy industry, and storage facilities are needed. This work has already begun in the world. I would like to know what the concept of energy storage is like in Poland, which will be created from renewable energy sources. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u284	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u285	Mr Gawkowski mentioned electric cars here. It is I who may draw your attention, because this is a good example of what this green energy is. Emissions Analytics, about two years ago, pointed out after the first study that the amount of particulates extracted from wearing tires is more than 1,000 times greater than the particulates coming from the exhaust pipe. After 2 years of the series of tests, studies have just been published, according to which there are 1850 times more particulates from tyres consumed than from exhaust pipes, from exhaust gases. And interestingly, the most beautiful of all, electric cars are on average several hundred kilograms heavier than cars, so electric cars emit the most particulates and are the most dangerous to the environment. I congratulate the government and the whole world on their heroic struggle for the environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u286	Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Basic question: When will the government eliminate or modify the 10 h rule? At what stage are the works - I would like you to tell the Minister. Second thing. Why is access to power blocked in the middle of the GPZ in Poland? Why is this done? Is that the goal of this offshore wind energy or is that for some other purpose? We all know we're gonna have to wait at least a decade on this project. Could it not be used at that time for those who already want to invest in renewable energy? These are basic questions. If the Minister adds further what is the prospect of modernising the transmission networks so that he can use the energy that can be produced today, I would be grateful. I'll ask for an answer in writing as well. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u288	Thank you. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u289	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The construction of wind and land-based and marine farms must be developed, especially in the face of war and, of course, the care of the climate. But don't tell me, Minister, that you will build offshore wind farms in the coming years, because that is not true. All the professionals on the subject say it takes 9-10 years to get it done. Besides building windmills, you have to get ships to operate them. It's staff training, logistics, transportation, expansion of farms, construction of wind power stations, construction of artificial islands, as you know. In addition to producing electricity through windmills, you have to create a whole transmission line to discharge it on the sea floor. Surely we must strive for the greatest possible transformation of our energy and move towards RES. [[♪ The bell ♪]] First of all, we need to unblock the wind and land energy that you killed in 2016 by adopting the so-called. It's a distance bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u290	Thank you, Member. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u291	These are, of course, very dangerous delusions that produce economic nonsense. It is known that the ground is purely ideological here. Yes, sir. If it weren't for the Eurokochoz system of incentives, incentives, subsidies, it wouldn't have happened at all. Yes, sir. These are German windmills with Danish engine or vice versa. Answer me the question... I hope you ministers do not believe that a country like Poland can really be warmed up and driven by windmills to grind birds, but answer me how you calculated how many of them are going to be in the end - since there are calculations for everything: on fences on motorways, on various implementations of EU standards. It's all calculated. How many of them are intended to be, and how many are needed, for such a country as Poland to be saturated with them already? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u292	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Mark Grybarczyk to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u293	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very much for supporting this law. It is extremely important, it completes the whole legislative process related to the implementation of offshore wind farms in our area of competence. Let me remind you that the most important element of the legislative process is, above all, the concession regulation, which has been drafted and voted on. On this basis, we were able to release 11 locations to about 10 GW. At the moment, the concession award process is underway. I can tell you that 132 proposals have already been made in this regard. We are, of course, implementing this on the basis of the regulation and we assume that the concession process will be completed by the end of this year. So that we are going according to plan, with deadlines, above all with regard to the legislative implementation of our competences for the conclusion of the concession process. Most of these questions are not addressed to us as a ministry, and we will answer you in writing. This is the competence of the Ministry of Energy and Climate, Minister of Profit. Once the answer is received, we will send it to you. Of course, we are responsible for the construction of the offshore terminal, that is already the competence of the Ministry of Infrastructure. EUR 237 million has been prepared for this purpose. The installation terminal was selected in the external port in Gdańsk and service ports or service and installation in Ustka and in Łeba. This process is monitored in terms of investment implementation. Of course, the entire concession process is evaluated and controlled by the ABW. This is one of the elements contained in the Regulation. As far as the sea and land part is concerned, this system cannot be separated, mainly because the power output is covered by the duplex system. Energy must also be sent in the other direction, for example for heating and protection, not to mention raising the right elements of the generator. We therefore assume that this system is the whole system when it comes to power extraction and connection to the relevant GPZ. Of course, Mrs Chmiel... [[I'm here.]] When it comes to artificial islands, you don't build, you don't spill any artificial islands. I think we understand each other here. They're monopiles that are stuck in, so it's not... [[I know. I know exactly how it's built. Thank you very much.]] Okay, I'm very happy for you. Therefore, the rest of the questions, ladies and gentlemen, will be answered in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u294	Thank you very much, Minister. Is Mr Azievicz as rapporteur... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] I see. In that case, the discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 16. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 minutes 19 hours 16 min 03]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u295	I'm reopening the session. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law on support and rehabilitation of minors, print No 2311. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (3) of the Sejm Regulation. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft act on social financing for economic projects and assistance to borrowers, print No 2318. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95e of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. I propose that in the debate on this item, the Sejm listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, may I have the tone down, please? 'Cause I really can't hear anything. [[Voice from the hall: Like a hive.]] The committee responsible has submitted a report on the draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws, print No 2316. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. Mrs Marzena Okła-Drewnowicz, Civic Coalition, with a formal proposal. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u296	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a formal request for a recess and a decision on the resignation of Michał Cieślak, minister of the PiS government. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! What kind of person does it take to report to a post office worker from Pacanowa who had the courage in her helplessness to feel sorry for the cost and low wages? [[Applause]] [[As a clerk?]] What courage she had... Ladies and gentlemen! What did she get in return? In return, she was informed that she would be fired, and that she would be disciplined. What did that woman say? That's all I said: how much money I spend when I'm going to gas up and how much money I make. $3,000. zł. When I pay off the loans, I've got some money left for my life. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u297	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u298	Minister! Please apologize. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the O.R.: Dismissed.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u299	Thank you, Member. We are returning to the examination of item 1 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2314-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee. Welcome to the school youth from Zaborowa, who is listening to our deliberations. I cordially welcome you and your guardians. [[Applause]] Please, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u300	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs on the Government bill amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws, print No 2290. The Parliament held its 56th meeting on 8 June. again addressed the draft law in print No 2314 to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs for the purpose of considering the amendments tabled at second reading. Committee on Administration and Home Affairs after considering the amendments at its meeting on 8 June this year. asks the High Sejm to accept Amendments 3 and 14 and to reject Amendments 1, 2 and from 4 to 13. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u301	Thank you very much. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2314. The Commission also presents minority proposals and amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 11 - for, 440 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 213 - for, 227 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment with which Amendment 14. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 3 and 14? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 431 - for, no one was against, the 19. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the 4th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 4th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 181 - for, 226 - against, withdrawed 43. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Its adoption will result in the nullity of minority proposals 1 and 2. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 212-- for, 239-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 1st minority proposal, which brings together the 2nd minority proposal. We will vote on them together. We're voting. Who is in favour of minority proposals 1 and 2? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 213 - for, 225 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected minority proposals. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 214 - for, 237 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 214 - for, 228 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 14 for, 434 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 9th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 9th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 11 for, 434 against, 4 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 10th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 11 - for, 407 - against, 31 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 11th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 446 Members voted. 210 - for, 236 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 12th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 445 Members voted. 183 - for, 259 - against, 3 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 13th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 13th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 141 - for, 308 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2314, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 439 - for, 11 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in its territory and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Internal Affairs Committee and the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration (prints 2276 and 2281). Ladies and gentlemen, may I have your peace of mind? A little quieter, please. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u302	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Report of two committees, the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance, on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration, print No 2276. On 20 May this year, the Marshal of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance for consideration. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on Public Finance after considering this resolution at its meeting on 24 May this year. the year calls for the High Sejm to reject six amendments, amendments 1, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7 and two amendments to be adopted - 2 and 8, bearing in mind that amendments 1 and 3 and 4, 6 and 7 must be voted together. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u303	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. We are voting on the 1st amendment with which the 3rd amendment is linked. We vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1 and 3? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 449 Members voted. 227 for, 222 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the second amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who's against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. Two for, against, 450, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. We are voting on the 4th amendment with which amendments 6 and 7 are combined. We vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 4, 6 and 7? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 228 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the fifth amendment. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who's against the 5th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 227 for, against 225, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. We are voting on the 8th Amendment. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who's against the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 1 for, against -451, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the act on the Copernicus Academy (prints 2273 and 2293). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u304	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 25 May, the Committee on Education, Science and Youth considered the Senate resolution on the act on the Copernican Academy. The Commission did not support the Senate's position to reject this law, but is in favour of rejecting the Senate's resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u305	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate resolution by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate resolution, it shall be deemed to have been adopted. We will vote on the motion to reject the Senate resolution. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the act of 28 April 2022 on the Copernicus Academy. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the act of 28 April 2022 on the Copernicus Academy will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 228 - for, 223 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. [[Applause]] At this we concluded the Senate resolution on the act on the Copernican Academy. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the report of the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on investment in the field of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws (prints No 2272 and 2288). I ask Mr Witold Czarnecki to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 24 May, the Commission for Energy, Climate and State Assets discussed the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Law on Investment in the Regasification Terminal for liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. The Commission has not supported the Senate's position to reject this law, but is in favour of rejecting the Senate's resolution. Seym printing number 2288. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u307	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 28 April 2022 amending the Law on investment in the field of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law of 28 April 2022 amending the Law on Investment in the Regasification Terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 451 Members voted. 228 - for, 212 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the amendment of the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the Foreign Affairs Committee's report on the Senate's resolution on the Law amending the Foreign Service Act and certain other laws (prints No 2274 and 2286). I ask Mr Arkadiusz Mularczyk to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u308	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Foreign Affairs, after considering the Senate amendments, proposes to vote against the Senate resolution rejecting the Law of 28 April 2022 amending the Foreign Service Act and certain other laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u309	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In its resolution, the Senate proposes to reject the Law of 28 April 2022 amending the Foreign Service Act and certain other laws. The Commission requests that this resolution be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Senate resolution? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 228 - for, 222 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on Foreign Service and some other laws. At this point, ladies and gentlemen, we have concluded today's vote. Thank you. [[Applause]] I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 mins 25 hours 16 min 29]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u310	Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on the promotion and rehabilitation of minors (Prints 2183 and 2311). I would like to ask Mr Daniel Milewski to present a report to the committee. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u311	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Sejm at its 54th meeting on 12 May this year. pursuant to Article. 20 and 39 paragraphs. 2 Rules of Procedure The Sejm submitted a bill on supporting and rehabilitating minors from print No. 2183...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u312	Sir, may I? [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, please, people who do not want to stay in the courtroom because they have other responsibilities: if you could just leave the courtroom, please. Other people, please. I cordially ask Mr Braun, I cordially ask other Members and other Members, States on the right side of the room - please. All right, let's move on. Excuse me, sir. You've got time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u313	Thank you very much, Marshal. ...to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. It was attended by the Commission at two meetings: 24 May and 7 June, but at the meeting on 24 May a subcommittee was set up, which I had the honour of conducting. It held its meetings on 27 May and 2 June in order to examine the project in detail. I would like to thank all those who have taken part in this work, the members of the subcommittee, the members of the Committee on Justice and outside the subcommittee and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. I would like to thank the representatives of the ministries: the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education and Science, representatives of the local government represented by the Polish City Union and the Polish Districts Union and Minister Wójcik, who also represented the local government in the joint government and local government committee. Representatives of trade unions were present. Indeed, these discussions took place in a spirit of understanding, a profound reflection on this project. The report of the subcommittee was presented to the Committee on Justice yesterday, i.e. on 7 June. The Commission of Justice considered this project and shaped its final form after our work in the subcommittee. Today I have the honour to present to you, to conclude that the Justice Committee, after considering the project, asks the High Sejm to approve this report, attached to the report I have presented, the draft law, while reserving that 23 minority proposals have been submitted for this project. I would like to draw attention to these conclusions, which are referred to in the report as No 1, i.e. the deletion of the preamble. Conclusions 3rd, 4th and 5th are the conclusions on which there was the most discussion both at the subcommittee meeting and at the committee. So I would like to present this conclusion again. As a committee of justice, we are asking the High Sejm to adopt the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u314	Thank you, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear 7 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 3 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Jack Kurzępa from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. Please, I beg you, Mrs Zielińska - I smile, I wave with my hand - and Mr Szczepański. We respect very much Members and Members. You can come out, talk to me. I'm gonna ask you guys to talk in a minute, and you're gonna want it to be okay. Excuse me, sir, we're counting time from now on. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u315	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The position of the club Law and Justice concerning the draft law on support and rehabilitation of minors, print No 2183. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have a positive opinion on the Government's draft Print Act No 2183. This position is reinforced by the belief that the law under review has been properly subject to extensive environmental and social consultations. It was started in 2016, when Minister Michał Woś appointed a team to prepare the assumptions of changes in the process of supporting and rehabilitating minors. This document hasn't been touched in over 40 years. This concerns the Act of 23 October 1982. Everything has changed both economically, politically and psychosocially, educationally or educationally. The perception and presence of certain phenomena and issues relating to education, socialization, ethics and the world's obligations towards children and young people have also evaluated, including in a significant way in the perception and assessment of the risks associated with the demoralisation of minors and the very fact that the particularities of development of children, including minors, are changing. These are sufficient grounds for considering that a new perspective is needed on the process of supporting the development and rehabilitation of minors. This new look is focused on the primacy of the welfare of a minor child, whose development process can, but does not have to drift in socially undesirable directions. This awareness leads the legislator to apply two perspectives. Firstly, it is about strengthening the positive focus on stimulating minors to self-improvement - it is about awareness of self-improvement, self-reflexion and self-working - and when it fails to use a broad spectrum of environments and institutions to stimulate the correction of attitudes through synergies and logical sequences of events in the educational cycle, supporting development, starting with the family environment and strong emphasising the educational role of parents, also in the situation of negotiating and setting correction procedures, methods of resocialising influence in school institutions, juvenile courts or educational institutions. This process is therefore continued through educational institutions, educational institutions, juvenile courts, curators, support networks and police. The advantage of the solution is to concentrate the actions around the thought: first counter, support, correct as long as time goes by, non-invasively, strengthening positively. Only when the impact is ineffective can you reach for stronger, stronger measures, subject to respect for civil rights, respect for the dignity of your child and parents' rights to co-decide on his or her fate. This is a solution that responds to the challenges of time and educational situations that today become the participation of parents, educators, curators and judges in juvenile cases. It is an acceptable solution to limit freedom, the situation of direct coercion, the use of monitoring, personal control and the diagnosis of the possibility of being under the influence of psychoactive measures. To the many positive solutions that this project brings, it is worth adding that the court can, and does not need to extend the correction measure to an upbringing aged up to the age of 24, but in a situation where it leaves a reformatory, it is not lost in sight, continues to support and model its path of return to social life. The contested law brings these advantages, which therefore repeal the allegations of the insulating nature of the law. They also dismiss the allegations of punitive radicalism. They also dismiss the allegations of disregard for human and civil rights and reconciliation in the dignity of their children. On the contrary, for reasons of concern for the effectiveness in supporting and rehabilitating minors, their negotiating nature, in which the pupils themselves and their loved ones are permanent partners: parents, educators, curators, and proposing provisions which equip the managers of the educational and corrective impact process with a wide range of instruments of influence, trusting that skillfully and taking into account the individualised perspective will be applied, on behalf of the Law Club and Justice, I recommend the adoption of Print Act No 2183. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u316	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Katarzyna Osos, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u317	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With one, I have an impression, we all agree: changes are needed. The current institutional system for the rehabilitation of minors and the existing standards established 4 decades ago are based on concepts that are largely incompatible with modern realities. Changes in the form of a draft law covering a holistic approach to the promotion and rehabilitation of minors are therefore broadly expected. However, the project does not make revolutionary modifications in the system of rehabilitation of minors, quite often duplicates the errors of the current law, and also contains a number of provisions that raise doubts about their compliance with human rights standards. Today, it is stressed that juvenile proceedings should not be restrictive, but should focus primarily on upbringing. The controlling-restrictive climate is the least beneficial for the process of rehabilitation of minors, and unfortunately you are maintaining this direction. Importantly, the bill does not provide for solutions that will eliminate not only the effects but also the causes of pathological behaviour. The project also does not address problems related to the availability of qualified therapists, psychologists, educators in MOWs or correction facilities. Thus, in the age of systemic lack of specialists in existing institutions, it is difficult to expect a sudden increase in their number in newly created institutions, such as district educational centers. The major changes introduced by the project were mentioned at first reading. During the work of the subcommittee and the committee, we tabled amendments. By submitting them, we followed the principle that a minor should be raised and prepared for an independent and responsible life in a non-institutional environment. We assume that strict law does not translate into a reduction in the number of crimes and effective rehabilitation, that minors due to their age, lack of experience or pathological family environment are particularly vulnerable to various types of abuse. It is therefore important to create an appropriate legal framework that respects their respective rights and strengthens their protection. Unfortunately, most of the amendments were rejected. They have been submitted as minority proposals, so that I am still hoping for reflection during the third reading, and the next part of the position will be presented by Elżbieta Gapinska. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u318	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u319	If it were a law on rehabilitation and support for minors, we would support it, if it were a law that would help people who work in rehabilitation institutions, then we would support it, but this, please, is absolutely not a law. She's going right across what I just said. I want to tell you that this bill is going towards punishing young people. She's talking about how a young man is supposed to fit in, adapt, adopt to the rehabilitation institution he's in. But this is not a process of rehabilitation. This is even a level we should have forgotten a long time ago. Polish rehabilitation system, ladies and gentlemen, is no longer congruent to the solutions applied in the world and this law unfortunately fits into this trend of existing thinking. How can you do the same thing over and over again and think that the effects will be different? It's just a misunderstanding. Philosophy, which is based on increasing the severity of legal solutions towards young people, confirms all this research, is harmful and bad in rehabilitation. The rehabilitation work should have a completely different character. The amendments to this law, which are related to the precedents described by the media and which, on this basis, are incorporated into the law, in certain provisions, are not a systemic change in the thinking of rehabilitating young people or changing the functioning of institutions or modifying educational work, and only all these activities together could actually result in effective rehabilitation. Instead of a real law on rehabilitation, which is what I say we support, you are proposing a prosthetic because you do not know why and why you believe that increasing the strictness of the law is a rehabilitation efficiency. And it's not. Should rehabilitation therefore be a process of adapting the caretakers to life in the institution through a system of penalties and rewards, or a programme of self-emancipation of the upbringing and openness to the external environment outside the institution? Here we differ very much in the philosophy of the approach to rehabilitation. The records in the preamble are completely not reflected in the contents of the Act. The preamble speaks of the importance of the family in the process of upbringing, and the state does not take this into account in the law at all. We should be concerned about solutions aimed at rehabilitating minors in the context of freedom in the immediate environment in which every young person lives. As Prof. Konopczyński writes: One of the myths of rehabilitation is the treatment of conflict with law as a disease that is treated by placing a minor in a closed facility without the possibility of contact with society. As Prof. Konopczyński, quoted by me, says that the disorders of rehabilitation of minors should focus on enabling minors to interact positively with society, especially in the environments closest to the minor, and not on isolating them in new types of institutions. In many countries, the focus is on prevention and prevention and care. That's not in this bill. 10 years is certainly not the age at which a child may consciously stand trial for demoralization, which in his case is the result of adverse family, environmental, peer, or untreated developmental disorders. According to Prof. Konopczyński, the age which allows legal proceedings against a minor is at least 12 years old. Why? Because this is also the age when a child - only at the age of 11-12 - appears so-called. Autonomous morality. Autonomous morality requires that the standards be followed, regardless of the circumstances, i.e. not out of compulsion, for fear of punishment, just because the child thinks this is the right thing to do. The application of direct coercion measures, the inclusion in the adaptation chamber should take place only in final cases and should be clearly defined and recorded in that law. If we want real rehabilitation, then we should ensure that actions taken against minors by the court or police are carried out under the supervision of rehabilitation specialists. It should be a statutory record. I hope that such a bill will be made and that you will allow all the environments to work on it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u320	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Ueberhan, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u321	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Supporting and rehabilitating minors is an important and difficult task. He's being tried to face up to a government bill submitted to him. The question immediately arises: Why are code solutions included in the law and not in the code? It's not the only question that needs to be asked here. Does the law regulate all areas sufficiently? Does it do it in a systemic and holistic manner, as they would like and repeat it like a mantra of designers? Above all, will the solutions contained here guarantee rehabilitation and support for minors? We are behind our work in subcommittees and committees, and the law still contains errors in the current juvenile law. It largely maintains the status quo. Most of the opposition's amendments amending or deleting questionable solutions have not been taken into account in the course of the work. These solutions are insufficient use of alternative means for legal proceedings, lack of guarantee that the child's detention will be a measure only in the last resort, maintaining two age limits, which could lead to unequal treatment of children, lack of adequate measures to protect minors from conflicts of interest with their parents, lack of a comprehensive approach to the issue of the independence of minors' children. In addition, the project continues to contain regulations that raise doubts as to the maintenance of human rights standards, including the rights of the child: the mandatory use of personal checks in the admission of minors to correction facilities, the possibility of restricting contact with the family, the compulsory use of handcuffs in convoying. In addition, the project creates a new type of educational centre, but does not contain solutions that support existing institutions in their work. Although it is important to appreciate what I repeat every time, the attempt to meet the challenge and the overall regulation of children who cause educational problems in one piece of legislation, because it is necessary and expected, is the projectors up to their task or just at the level of their capabilities? Even if it were a code, even if it were a possible law, even the best law still would not replace a well-prepared, well-paid staff that was well taken care of. Every system, no matter how well thought out, how good it would be to make it, will be only or as good as the people who created it, who work in it and for it, and those who have been forgotten by this system - underestimated, deprived of previous rights, such as the right to early retirement, employed for the lowest national salaries, not eligible to such an extent that, as we heard at the meeting of the subcommittee from the trade union representatives, the special allowance has become, with time, a compensatory allowance to the minimum wage. This is outrageous and another equally important area, which requires immediate examination and repair, although it does not belong to the matter of this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u322	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The project is so extensive that I will focus on this one of the most controversial records, which, of course, I approach very personally as a pedagogue with many years of experience. Government bill on supporting and rehabilitating minors in one of the provisions contained therein, i.e. in art. 4, proposes that school heads replace judges and be able to apply educational measures to pupils themselves. What are these measures? That's for example. instruction, oral warning or written warning, apology to the victim, restoration of the previous condition and the execution of specific work for the school. The application of the educational impact measure does not exclude the application of the penalty specified in the school statute and de facto, according to this provision, school heads may become quasi-judges and students will be punished twice for the same offence. While the idea of relieving family courts by assigning certain responsibilities to the school board may have its advantages, these detailed provisions contained in the Act, however, lit a red lamp both for students' representatives and for teachers and school managers. First of all, we need to consider here whether these instruments, which are today, which have operated on schools so far, were sufficient or not. And as far as we can discuss - and this was the discussion at the subcommittee meeting - whether these educational measures in the form of instruction, in the form of a restoration to reality, are not some records that directors may need today, but this record... As a parliamentary club of the Left, we have tabled two amendments. The first concerned the removal of the paragraph giving directors the power to all educational measures. When we proposed a second amendment, we tried to make sure that we agreed that the record on specific law enforcement work at the school should be deleted. Unfortunately, this was not accepted. The project does not specify what these work can be done, the extent to which the student can be obliged to do it or the procedure according to which it can be done. And now that we're letting go of fantasy, we're asking: Is raking leaves and washing floors in the school hall despite the application of the school statute's penalty only to take place once, or can the student be directed to such regular work for a longer period of time? If so, for how long? There are many questions that remain unanswered. It is worth noting that modern - day pedagogy is no longer using such negative, non - education tools, which it considers ineffective. [[Voice from the room: Unfortunately.]] We're talking about an educational center for a depraved student. Mr President, if you raise a few hundred students, like me, we will really be able to talk on an equal footing. [[Voice from the room: We see the effects of this upbringing.]] What corruption is, however, is not specified by the law. However, there is a concern that, first of all, directors will abuse this measure. Secondly, it is obvious, cleaning, cleaning work is not educational, that is, exposing the student to harassment, to ridicule primarily on the part of other students. It is worth exploring the latest studies on pedagogy, as well as neurobiology on the development of children. I would understand if the Ministry were to go into some positive solutions, but unfortunately this is one such statement that the Left is still wondering how it will vote on this project. And that's too bad, because there's a lot of good, tidying records here, too. And unfortunately, like I said, read the pedagogy again. Raise a few hundred students, then we can talk. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: No stress.]] You don't know whether it's stress or stress. Cleaning work is not an upbringing without stress or stress. Really. [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Tadeusz, check and mate were.]] [[The voice from the room: Checkmate was, Mrs. Kate.]] [[Voice from the room: Let's respect each other.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u324	Ladies and gentlemen, let's not squirm. Tadeusz, I see, I watch, don't argue because there's no need. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u325	Thank you very much. First of all, I'd like to join Mr. Marshal's appeal. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - Union of European Democrats, Conservatives, I would like to present my position on the report of the committee on the government draft law on support and rehabilitation of minors, contained in Seym printing No 2183. High Izbo! We appreciate, Minister, the desire to take on this matter, which is the issue of minors who are on the wrong path, the way of conflict with the law, with the rules of social life. On the other hand, we regret to say that we are wasting a bit of a chance to deal with the problem in a comprehensive, non-wakening way - as my previous speakers have said - conflicts, doubts or comments. In our view, the project does not solve the three main problems which would improve the effectiveness of the impact on juvenile offenders or show all kinds of depravity, criminal behaviour. First of all, existing and proposed solutions provide for interference in the educational process of minors only when the latter show signs of demoralization. And this must be said from this point of view: this means that the state's response to dangerous symptoms in the behaviour of minors is very often late and we are simply removing the effects and not treating the causes. The current system most often sees the problem of a minor when he commits a criminal act, is addicted to alcohol or narcotics, and these symptoms indicate that the process of walking a dangerous route began much earlier than when we discovered the case. In short, as a country, we respond to these problems too late, often when this rehabilitation cannot be effectively undertaken. The second serious negligence that has been waiting for catching up for nearly 40 years is the creation of mechanisms for simultaneous impact on minors and the family environment. For many years, it has been written everywhere that the family is the most important educational environment of the child. Unfortunately, this results little in action, in practice. There are still no systemic solutions in the area of so-called. educating the family. If we want to effectively rehabilitate young people, we need to help not only to themselves but also to their environments, to their families, otherwise these actions will be ineffective. The third problem is the real help and support of former school pupils locked up in the process of their return to normal life. It is important to be aware that many of them have been going through other rehabilitation facilities since early childhood, changing the environment. Even a parent who first goes to such a facility and leaves as an adult is colliding with problems he didn't know as a child. Often, such ones are taught helplessness because today's system teaches them how to claim, not responsibility and creativity. They have problems in solving current problems, re-entering the family environment and so on. And for today, there are no systemic solutions to help them adapt to society in this very difficult process. A young man should also be helped after leaving the center where he was rehabilitated. This is what has been missing so far and is missing in the project that we are looking at. These three main problems have not been solved so far, and the opportunity given by the project, in our view, is also lost, and that is why we have a problem with this project unreservedly supporting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u326	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u327	God bless you! - especially to minors in these little times. The project, which the Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland presents to us through the Minister of Justice, is a project of exceptional importance, because minors are - truisms, clichés - the future. Everything we're doing here is gonna come true, or it's gonna embarrass us there, in the future where they're gonna be, and we're gonna be gone. This project is also very important because it weighs probably 2 kg, it has 900 pages with justification. On the one hand, with great interest and kindness I look at and listen to this debate, because it has an exceptional level, because it is a sense of importance of this issue, but on the other hand it is of course a manifestation of monumental deception and hypocrisy from the power that wants minors here verbally, officially, officially support, correct and raise, and for the last 2 years it has destroyed Poles of all age categories, but in a particularly drastic and criminal way these most vulnerable - minors, small, often grown up, but not yet grown people, and of course the helpless, sick old people you have killed, the honourable country... [[Voice from the room: COVID, through the vaccine.]] ...and you've driven minors into disease, addiction, compulsion. Mr President, statistics. In 2021, the number of suicide attacks among minors in the Republic of Poland increased by 30-40% compared to 2020. among the girls, the girls, the children, the Member of whom you have a reasonable amount - I recommend each, yes, bravo - female children. Some teachers will say that 100% more girls are trying to take their own lives. Where was the Ministry of Justice at the time, when the criminals from the Ministry of Disease and sudden death gave out the tsarical appearances to which everyone... [[Voice from the room: Everyone.]] ... You've been submissive, including the Sejm Bureau, of course? It was clear that it was unsubstantiated and illegal (The Bell), when in kindergartens...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u328	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u329	Allow me, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u330	I won't.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u331	Allow me. Let me remind you that... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u332	I won't allow it, sir. Mr. President, I've turned your mic off. Listen to me. I'm not gonna let that happen.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u333	You are responsible for the degradation of the young generation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We do not want to hear this, Mr.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u334	Thank you very much, sir. Mr President, I will not allow you, and I must draw your attention to this, to call any official, whether he is from the PiS government or the Left Government or the Civic Platform, a criminal. [[But luckily, you have nothing to let in here.]] Sir, in general, I'm just asking. [[A Sunday criminal...]] I'll remove you from the courtroom in a moment, and you won't be attending the Sejm until tomorrow. [[The nation will remove you from this position.]] You won't be Minister of the Republic, no matter what formation he's from, you call a criminal. Please, I invite Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! There is no doubt that there is a need for a new regulation of the area of juvenile proceedings. The world has changed, for 40 years there has been enormous progress in human development psychology. Perhaps even new legal regulations, as we discussed here at the committee meeting, should be included in the code form. The Sejm was visited by a project, 417 articles, with a justification of 900 pages. Even if it should cause calm proceding. Today, if we want real support for minors, we should be able to deal with inflation problems, expensive problems, lack of coal, and if we want real support for minors, then we should be careful in the Seym reaching Everest. Circle of Poland 2050 notes and supports comments made, reservations made by NGOs, professional authorities and specialists in psychology and rehabilitation. Unfortunately, the government project in its wording does not deserve to be adopted, starting with the recital. Minister! I am afraid that soon every project will contain a preamble, and as your party colleague says: the arena, and yet it should be important in exceptional regulations. The reservation calls for a minimum age of responsibility to be established in proceedings against the child in connection with demoralisation - 10 years. We share the doubts of specialists, because the real need to prevent the demoralization of a minor should be decisive, especially in the context of the difficulty in defining demoralization and its premises. Storms, storms, even a hurricane of doubt give the school director too much credit for the application of educational measures without defining the rules, their dimension. Why was it forgotten about the need to choose the means of impact to meet the psychophysical needs of minors? Minister! I think it's your words, and I quote, "The point is that the principal, instead of referring the case to the court, which then goes on, could, for example, immediately. Tell them to rake leaves in the fall or wash the hallway. You can add to this catalog an order for picking up the woods in the woods. And you have heard from specialists and yesterday, and today, especially from Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, that this is not the way to proper rehabilitation. There are even more reservations, such as the grounds for the use of insulating educational measures, the definition of the rules for ruling the most severe remedy, the proposed way of dealing with minors suffering from mental illness or other disturbances of mental activity or those suffering from addiction. Peace, not haste, dialogue, attention to the attention of specialists - this should be decisive in the process of this project in the Sejm. Therefore, near Poland 2050 (the bell) will not support this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u336	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. Twenty-eight people came in. Anyone else feel like checking in? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time to ask questions for one minute. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u337	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have doubts about the fundamental issues raised in this document, as it seems to me that the basic rule and the first priority should nevertheless be to ensure safety and care for the health and life of outsiders and families, and only on the second stage should we be guided by the welfare of the minor. Personalities and psychophysical development of minors should be addressed in situations where this does not pose a threat to other people, under conditions of total safety for the minor himself. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u338	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u339	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The new rules are to apply in schools since September this year. According to these regulations, directors will be able to rehabilitate students. I have this question: Does the Ministry provide for any additional funding for criminal law training or some short courses for directors to target, I do not want to say: teaching, but indicating some way and formula of punishing students in schools? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u340	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In Polish prisons there are now more than 70,000 prisoners. prisoners. If we don't want this town to get bigger, we need effective rehabilitation. It is obvious, scientifically confirmed, that a very effective way is to get a minor on the educational path when he starts to learn. I did not find any information on the effectiveness of this education anywhere, nor in the explanatory memorandum, nor on the website of the ministry, of any ministry. And if this is such an effective way, then I would like to ask and ask for a written reply: What percentage of young people in correctional institutions, shelters, graduations, vocational training? Why is this way so effective? For one reason: he improves (the bell) the feeling, but in the sense of raising the self-esteem of this young man. So I'd really appreciate it if I got this in writing. I'll pass it on to my colleagues on the committee and everyone interested. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u342	Thank you very much. Mrs Anita Sowińska, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u343	Resocializing educators are in the group of workers most frequently affected by burnout syndrome. This is due to the high stress of involving these people and working in an environment with increased exposure to violence. On the other hand, teachers are not properly appreciated for their hard work. I am referring not only to wages that are embarrassingly low but also to the lack of due respect for this socially needed work. In Poland there is a belief that the penitentiary system should act as a executioner rather than adapt rehabilitated people to return to society. For this reason, I have two questions to the Minister: What is the plan to raise salaries for educators and educators in rehabilitation centres? Will the Ministry take educational action to change the social attitude towards the penitentiary system and what will it do? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u344	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u345	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Ministry of Justice focuses on punishing minors, allowing the use of handcuffs or personal searches on children, but on the other hand, the same ministry has put itself above the law for the last 7 years, prosecuting independent judges, embezzling funds, creating troll farms, stalking LGBT people and opposition. What can such a young man, who has erred and resided, give for it, in juvie, think about our justice system and all those people in the government who have broken the constitution, committed crimes and have so far suffered no punishment, and now want to tighten up the rules for these minors? Many schools in Poland are named Janusz Korczak. Not by chance, because he had a completely different approach to minors than he now has the Ministry of Justice and Minister Ziobro. Korczak was betting (the bell) not on tightening penalties, but on education and self-government. He's the one the kids thought were grown-ups. I wonder what sentence these little judges would give you if they were to judge what is happening at the heights of the current power. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u346	Thank you very much. Barbara Dolniak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ever since you took power, you've been making so much, so much of the law that even lawyers have trouble moving among them. As it were, you don't make records that are vague, vague and incomprehensible. This bill is an example of this. Not only are you bringing the issue of rehabilitation to the subject of punishment, but you are creating records that will create a problem not only for young people but also for lawyers. Because how, Minister, do you understand the return of punishment in the form of the execution of certain lawsuits for the benefit of the school? It's not only that you're transferring your duties to the headmaster, but the headmaster's gonna make up any kind of punishment. How about cleaning the toilet with a toothbrush or sweeping the yard around the school? [[Voice from the room: What's wrong with that?]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are drafting a bill on minors. Therefore, we need to introduce solutions that are clear and precise, because in this way we shape the personality of a young man, rather than create solutions that will allow for any kind of punishment (the bell). This certainly is not the way to rehabilitate young people. [[Voice from the hall: The principal of the school is someone.]] But he must not be punished at his own discretion because he has a record of freedom in this regard. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Once it was possible.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u348	Thank you very much. Mrs Katarzyna Maria Piekarska, Civic Coalition. And then we'll ask Mrs. Catherine Kotula. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members! Minister! The baby wants to be good. If he can't, teach. If he doesn't know, explain. If he can't - help - so much Janusz Korczak, nearly 100 years ago. This bill does not give you enough tools to help you to translate. This bill is repressive and punishment. One can say that she is contrary to the principles of modern pedagogy. Thus, the title of this law is also contrary to its content. I have specific questions for the Minister. Minister, do you not think that there is no regulation regarding the appointment of a public defender, if he is not elected, in the case of every minor, not only in certain cases, as is the case in this project... It would be (the bell) a good protection of the child's interests. Do you really think that punishing a child, because that's how it's gonna be perceived, e.g. Washing toilets at school is a good thing, and something good's gonna come out of it? I don't think so. And the last question: Should the preamble, which refers to Christian values, to the value of one religion, really be included in this law? After all, we have a separation of the Church from the state. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u350	Thank you very much. Excuse me, Mrs. Navel. We will ask Katarzyna Kotula, because this speech will improve the deliberations.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to formally withdraw the amendment tabled at second reading. I would like to say that it is not art to go into quantity, but art to go into quality. [[Applause, excitement in the courtroom]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u352	Thank you very much for withdrawing the proposal - we will be able to move on to the third reading. And now I invite Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the hall: Now it's just a scandal.]] [[Voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, that statement was outrageous.]] [[A voice from the hall: After all, it is, Mr. Marshal... what is it?!]] [[A voice from the hall: Mr. Marshal, this is a scandal.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo... [[Voice in the hall: The psychologist who misjudges herself as a psychologist.]] We have seen many cases of unequal treatment of Poles by the government. Now we're dealing with another one.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u354	Miss, would you excuse me for a moment? Gentlemen, I'm looking... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, maybe you missed it.]] [[Voice from the hall: The greater scandal in the Seym was not yet present.]] [[Mr. Marshal didn't see it coming. Commenting on five of my children, she said, quote: not art go into quantity, but quality. I'll leave that to your assessment.]] [[Voice from the hall: This is an outrageous statement. Mr Marshal, you should call the Member to order. And she's...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u355	But what is it anyway? [[But okay, it's over.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u356	Good, because Mr. Tadeusz... [[Voice from the hall: I think there was no more simple expression in this Seym.]] [[Voice from the room: Abuse of someone's children.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u357	I hope this fight is over.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u358	Don't yell anymore. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski spoke on this. He's waving his hands that we're done. Excuse me, Member. Mrs Margaret Navel. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have seen many cases of unequal treatment of Poles by the government. Now we're dealing with another one. Unfortunately, it is. Instead of creating prospects for successful rehabilitation of minors and following well-known and proven patterns in Western countries, young people are being threatened by making heads of educational centres and judges. Ask the interested themselves whether they prefer to be ordered by an impartial, independent judge to carry out social work with regard to legal education or to be deprived of these qualities by the director. Was there even a broad consultation in this regard? Has this been discussed? Because somehow I didn't hear any public consultation going on, and the bill, and it's a very important bill, is being processed. [[♪ The bell ♪]] What guarantees do we have that, after the law has entered into force, we will not have to deal with the worsening of pathology in the centres? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u360	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Dziambor, near the Confederation. I look at my face, there's a smile. Please, Arthur.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u361	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! We have had an exceptional display of rudeness on the part of the Member, but I hope that this will be noted in some way. I would like to say that I listen to opposition Members, and although I do not agree with this law, in all statements there is a complaint for the punishments to be imposed by the Director. I remember when I was in elementary school, one of the teachers had this method that if someone interrupted her in class, then she took the most disturbing hand and walked it in the lobby for 10 minutes during the break. Walking by the hand was such a trauma to the class's snitch that he's already, believe me, never interfered with his lessons in his life. Today he'd probably accuse that teacher of sexual harassment, moral loss... [[Voice from the room: Right.]] ...and would require that she be removed from school, by profession, etc., because such a thing should not be done. They're absurd. On the other hand, as far as the bill is concerned, I apologize very much, but I always thought that the basis was family. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If the child does not have a family, the basis is a foster family, not an institution that you want to strengthen. This institution shouldn't be. You should get out of this, but strengthen the role of the family. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u362	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u363	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The government bill on supporting and rehabilitating minors is intended to replace legislation that is more than 40 years old. However, I have the impression that this project was written in the 19th century. I'm looking at these 900 pages of rehabilitation regulations and I'm asking if they're where they're talking about restricting contact with the family, or where handcuffs are described, the mandatory presence of a third party during a medical examination, or the famous mandatory personal check-up with the need to undress the delict. In fact, you should also add the need to make bars, hierarchs and stocks, maybe guard towers, barbed wire, moats, trapchel spells. Maybe that's the way you should go. But in order to be honest, it would be worth changing the title of this law and not writing about rehabilitation, just to call it a government project aimed at overshadowing the hope of effective rehabilitation, increasing aggression and speeding up (the bell) the transition of minors to criminal profession. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Nowacka, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! The dispute we are having here is actually a philosophical dispute about whether you want rehabilitation or a penitentiary set for people over the age of 10. I have the impression that you do not want to rehabilitate young people at all, but that you want to bring them out of pathology, often without faults, and that you want to actually push them into the penitentiary system and into further criminalisation. Rehabilitation is intended to help people who are vulnerable to violence, who often live in difficult conditions. Increasing this violence by allowing, often excessive, people who do not want to use violence will not get young people out of pathology and will not help them to rehabilitate themselves. If we fail to take care of the basic dignity, even the young person who made mistakes (the bell), she in adult life will only duplicate these mistakes. You know this as a specialist, and you should know this as a politician. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u366	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u367	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal! I have a Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, a subtitle - Human dignity, a ban on slavery and forced labour: No one can be held captive or subject to servitude. No one shall be forced to provide forced or compulsory labour. [[Prisoners too?]] The basic question arises as to whether a school principal may, in violation of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, force a student to do a certain job as a punishment. Who will bear... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] With the student's permission. If we include in these principles the fact that the director can apply such penalties, then let us be aware of one thing. First of all, we know what the student's consent principle is. Secondly, who will answer if something happens to the student? Let us remember that if we say: cleaning work, then the person who performs it normally must know the principles of health and safety, must observe them, must be trained. In the case of a student, we have no such situation. Secondly, the directors did not ask to be judges. I therefore ask, first of all, whether someone has examined this project for compliance with the Charter of Fundamental Rights? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u368	Thank you very much. Mrs Monika Rosa, Parliamentary Club, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill and its provisions are designed to socialize, rehabilitate or break young people and punish them? You're reducing the age of underage to 10 years from the age of 13, which was in the previous law. [[Voice from the Chamber: No, it is not, Madame.]] Now the question is. Do you really want a 10-year-old child, I don't know, to stand trial to put them in a rehabilitation facility? Do you really want such children to be in one facility, e.g. 24-year-olds with 18-year-olds? [[Voice from the room: But that's not true.]] Such a person, a young child, cannot be punished in this way, Minister, simply cannot be treated in this way, punished. Moral development, mental development just doesn't allow it. [[Applause]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Read the draft, Mrs Woś.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u370	Minister... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: I'm sorry, I'm aware, but I couldn't help it.]] Minister, let me tell you something. Look at me. You may not have responded, but I have good news for you: your time will come. We'll ask you to speak to everyone. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It was rude, but I won't pay you any attention either, because I respect all people. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u371	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I must say that I regret that the opportunity to create a bill that is so much needed and expected to meet the standards of modern rehabilitation has largely been wasted. I don't mean to say that there are no good records because they're there. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister about the question of single teenage mothers. Namely, it is known that in order for mothers to be able to perform the role of mother - this regarding records are - it is not enough just to focus on this role. For them to be good mothers permanently, they must be helped to be well educated so that they can work. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All built-up social policy is needed in general. I wanted to ask you what you might propose on this matter, because here, unfortunately, I don't see it in this bill. Because being a mother alone is not enough to actually remain a mother for a long time and to do its job satisfactorily. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u372	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u373	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! I have a question for the Minister. Why are you introducing rules, what's the purpose of the rules that make the head of the school or the head of the DA's office, the judge, and then the executive when it comes to these damn penalties? What is the purpose of these rules, which I believe are not even from the 19th century, but from the Middle Ages, which are really meant to lead to the often public humiliation of a young man just to teach him a lesson, not to restore him fully to society? Your vision of rehabilitation is to give someone a hard time, humiliation, isolation. This is not really the way to bring a young man back to society. I remember a discussion in this room a few years ago - I watched her from the outside - about the abolition of physical punishments against children. Who were the loudest to keep these physical punishments against children? [[♪ The bell ♪]] The right hand, among others. Mr Cymanski spoke out loud that spanking is not violence, that it is not violence to discipline a minor. [[That's right.]] I have a question: Where does this love of violence come from at the right hand, especially toward the weakest? Do you really think that beating, humiliating, isolating someone is going to bring someone back into society? [[No, no one says that.]] This isn't the way to rehabilitate at all. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u374	Thank you very much. Mrs Elżbieta Gapinska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u375	Every educator, psychologist, rehabilitation educator knows that violence gives birth to violence. You are proposing an insulation system for young people, very deep insulation, but this insulation will not last forever. Eventually, these young people will go out into society. Will they then be rehabilitated according to this law which you propose? They won't. Are they gonna get better? They're not gonna get better. You simply have no idea, but in the Sejm on Friday there was a conference organized, there were specialists in rehabilitation: and theorists, and practitioners, there were people from youth educational centers, there was Professor Konopczyński, there were judges in juvenile cases, there were people who took care of minors from the point of view of their defence. Maybe you should have listened to these people. Do they support your bill? They don't. Are they saying she's good? They say she's angry. Really, don't insist. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We're gonna want to improve this bill in the Senate, and I hope you'll understand and accept it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Krawczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u377	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the youth educational centers in Poland currently there are almost 4.5 thousand. Kids. They're not holy children. Every one of them has something behind his ears. A lot of them wouldn't have been there if it wasn't for the environment they came from. But we, as a society, have responsibilities to these kids. It is our primary duty to ensure that such a teenager never again enters such a centre, and furthermore that, after leaving this centre, he will never return to the way of conflict with the law. What's it like now? 60% Teenagers are convicted of a criminal offence by the courts within 5 years of leaving the educational centers. [[Because there's no rehabilitation.]] Unfortunately, your bill is the best way to make this interest even higher. Do you really want to bring in ten-year-old children and make them stay in foster homes with adult offenders? [[♪ The bell ♪]] You don't want to rehabilitate these kids, you want to teach them the principle that the stronger is right, because that's what you want to teach them in educational centers, but oppression is not the way to rehabilitate. Listen to the teachers who, when reading some of the provisions of this law, break their hands. Those kids need to be pulled out of that hole they're in, not put in their heads for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u378	Thank you. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u379	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Rehabilitation and support for minors are implemented, among others. by directing minors to probation centres. Currently in Poland - at least this is the case from the website - there are 97 such places, such institutions. As a multi-annual volunteer working with minors in such centres, I see how these centres function, what opportunities they have, what potential they have in relation to educational influence on minors. Unfortunately, I am sad to say that they are heavily underfunded, and the staff are poorly paid, and they can really be of great benefit to children. Hence my question, Minister. Of course, this law has many mistakes and treats children as slaves and people to whom violence can be used. However, is it now possible to support these centres financially so that sociotherapy, music therapy, arteterapia can be conducted there? Because these are the elements that best affect children (the bell) and not their punishment and responsibility for directors. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]] [[Very good. Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It is very appropriate to work on the revision of the legislation on rehabilitation itself, but after reading the rules and the legal standards derived from them, it must be said that this draft law, unfortunately, to a large extent, does not meet the expectations of rehabilitation. The relevant bill should focus on two issues. On the one hand, it is on the rehabilitation of young people who are hurt, injured by life, who are raised in the wrong environment, very often in the wrong family, who have bad patterns of behavior. He should focus on pedagogical, educational, psychological work. On the other hand, the project should focus on the support of educators, psychologists themselves, on providing them with adequate working conditions, on providing them with psychological assistance or the possibility of early retirement. Unfortunately, neither in the first nor in the second area, this bill does not meet its expectations. It focuses on repression (The Bell), and when it comes to support for teachers or psychologists, we find absolutely nothing in it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u382	Thank you very much. Mrs Kinga Gajewska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u383	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! This law was created because the rehabilitation system in Poland is simply not sufficient. Studies show that fewer people go on a criminal journey after leaving prisons than after leaving educational centres. Supreme Audit Chamber She has already prepared a report twice, in which she recommends a few changes. Let me raise the issue of two recommendations. Firstly, specializing centres in such a way as to respond to dysfunctions, specific dysfunctions, or solve specific problems, such as. the issue of minors who are pregnant or are already raising children in order to create conditions for them to raise children. Secondly, you are proposing punishments. Have you, however, paid attention to the problem of insufficient number of psychologists (the bell) and educators in such educational centres? According to the 2021 study, a psychologist has 24 minutes per week to talk to such a child. 24 minutes a week. What are we able to do in the middle of a 24-minute conversation? In addition to the penalties, have you also addressed the issue of psychologists and educators in such centres? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u385	Educational problems are mainly due to the fact that modern pedagogy is based on the erroneous assumption of philosophical anthropology, i.e. on meliorism, or faith, which sounded here, that man is by nature good, and all evil comes from outside, from the environment. Meanwhile, the proper foundation, the foundation of classical pedagogy, is pejorism, which was proclaimed e.g. by Stanisław Lem, or the contrary belief that man is not by nature evil, but is not by nature good, i.e. There are elements of evil in man and these elements, these urges in education need to be set firm limits, not to believe in utopian, stressless upbringing and love bombardment. As it turns out, Bertrand Russell, who started a school based exactly on what you guys did. That's what you said. He started a school where there were no brakes, no punishment, no grades. He saw the Dante scenes when the kids poked each other's eyes out... [[That's not what we're saying.]] ...and before he died, he changed his mind about this fundamental issue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u386	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left. I don't think I see him. Good. Mr Zbigniew Dolata, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The fact that this law is good, that it is going in the right direction, bears witness to this huge attack from left-liberal or left-wing communities. Mr Berkowicz has just said these philosophical foundations. This is indeed a lack of basic knowledge and a lack of such an approach to what education is. Raising is an influence on the upbringing through the skillful application of penalties and rewards. Only penalties may not be applied and only prizes may not be used. It's obvious. If you're attacking such an idea that the school principal can recommend the student to do his law enforcement work, think about it. What's going on in Japan, because there's no housekeepers, where the kids clean their schools and these schools shine clean. It's obvious. This law was expected by all educators, who have the child's best interests at heart, e.g. those who work (the bell) in the correctional facilities. I had a lot of requests for this bill to be in the Sejm as soon as possible, so that it would be proceded, because the educators want to be able to have an educational influence on those who are corrupted so that these people can return to society as full members who will simply behave as if we were expecting it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u388	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u389	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On the occasion of this bill, I want to ask what I hear from school heads, teachers and parents: Why does the government do so little to ensure that there are more teachers, psychologists, speech counselors in schools, not to mention child psychiatry, which is almost impossible to access? Rehabilitation doesn't have to be punishing a child for being in one family rather than another. First of all, prevention measures must be taken to ensure that the child can actually thrive in order to have access to science, but also to make it safe and secure. Keep in mind that many behaviors the child acquires in the family environment, so first of all, take care of the support of helpless educational families. The child would then have the chance to function properly both in school and in his peer environment. Please also remember (the bell) that we have foster care. Those too must be provided with the right knowledge to know how to deal with their children with educational difficulties. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u390	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Punishment is not an art, it is the easiest element. The art is the upbringing and interest of a young man. A child is not born evil by nature. I have the impression that sometimes you simplify and rehabilitate this country is only about penalties. There are some good records in this bill that could come into force. Ladies and gentlemen, of course no one is questioning this, the basis is family, but let's think about those children who don't have families. This is where the state, including local authorities, should enter - how to help these families. Many elements are needed, but two are basic. First of all, we need staff, very good staff, and second of all, we need money. The state distributes millions of zlotys (The Bell) on various kinds of foundations, 2 billion zlotys on so-called. public television, commonly called scumbags. Hand that money over to the sports clubs, hand it over to the sports organizations, give it to these young people to be interested in something else. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u392	Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u393	I asked, Minister, where were you when, under the pretext of fighting a supposed pandemic in kindergartens, they won with police tape squares, sectors so that children wouldn't play with one bear. Where were you when the young generation was driven into addiction, when they acted directly against their health, their lives, where they tried to take their own lives. And now I'm going to ask you where you are when your government adopts a hypocritical agenda for so-called action. equal treatment, which, of course, under the hypocritical slogans of toleranceism opens, maybe not a wide gate, but various gates for proponents of deviance and thus increases the risk of impunity of deviance. And I'll ask you - I'll ask you soft-slayers - what are the statistics binding (the bell) deviants and propaganda of deviance with this demoralization referred to in the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u394	Thank you. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u395	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! October 7th Ub. R., Tczewski district, only one day, eight suicide attempts, eight girls. Children after suicide attempts, these statistics are growing at an alarming rate. It's getting worse every year. Only effective trials in 2019 are 100 deaths, a year later - 107, last year - 127 trials, deaths, and suicide attempts were over 1200. [[Voice from the room: Very often after drugs.]] In practice, how do you want to deal with the problem of supporting and rehabilitating such minors? Minors who have attempted suicide, minors who experience mental disorders, minors who are addicted to psychoactive drugs or alcohol addicts? [[Voice from the room: You want to liberalize.]] The provisions of the law in this respect are extremely general and the law itself is very repressive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It doesn't give minors procedural guarantees, it's based on discretionary powers. It sounds like a recipe for another tragedy. Have any of you thought of these children in such categories? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u396	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u397	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'd like to ask you two questions. First of all, it's about the choice of HR. I would like to quote here the example of Constantino Lodz, where you sent the director, who spread out the whole educational system. The question is whether this law is based on those experiences which took place in Konstantynów Łódzki, where the nominate of Minister Ziobra led to a breakdown of the educational system. The pupil who was involved in one of the events went to a very heavy educational institution and, in turn, the tutor had disciplinary action. Is this the model you want to adopt all over Poland that caused such drama right there? And second question, Minister. I've been through this bill quite thoroughly, and I haven't found out what the rehabilitation system is supposed to look like. What does that even mean for the ministry, what does the rehabilitation system mean in the bill, what does it look like? [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Voice from the room: Read instead of looking at it.]] What should it be, what should it have, what values? Question... Because there's actually a lot about different punishments, a lot about sanctions, discipline, but this law doesn't really tell you how to raise a young man who has problems, but how to raise him to be a citizen who can participate in public life, in social life like everyone else? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u398	Thank you. Mr Tadeusz Cymanski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Tadeusz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u399	Thank you very much. The argument is dramatic and I have many ideas, but I just have to choose one because it's short time. This is a dispute. not only about the diagnosis of why it is, but also about what to do. This dispute has been going on for over 20 years. I remember, maybe some people in the hall remember, there was a historical moment when two professors got into a bit of trouble with each other - it was over 20 years ago - and there was a statement. I want to quote it and comment on it because it was about politics, but it concerns, as a live one, also about upbringing. Namely, it is known that the children we are talking about, so juvenile delinquents, are often victims. These criminals are victims of their lives, they're unhappy people, and no one's questioning that they need to be helped. How can we help them? This, on the other hand, is a question and a dispute about how to raise a child. I'm going to the punch line. Minister, the answer was this: a force deprived of love leads to violence and cruelty, we know that. But there is another side to this medal: love deprived of firmness (the bell) and strength leads to helplessness. I'd like you to say it because it's a very important argument. Today there is no discipline, no obedience, there is the Charter of Fundamental Rights, but there is no charter of duty. Parental authority is supposed to be parental custody. I've raised my children without a doubt, and they accuse me of beating and beating. I've never beaten or beaten. But I've been disciplined. And it was a sad moment. You're so smart, you raise them, you'll see what you've got. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u400	Please, Mrs Elżbieta Płonka, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u401	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Dear Izbo! Raising children is a really big job. Children go to youth educational centers because they are in pathological families because they are affected by an environmental crisis, because they are fighting their father with their mother. Kids are trying to kill themselves. I met an educational center where the psychologist couldn't handle it. Here's a question for the Minister. Psychologists advise there to be a supervision in these centers. Is such a model envisaged? Psychologists employed by centres actually lose their opportunities by acting alone, so they must have external help, that is, an assessment of this situation from the outside. Then they won't get lost. And the other thing. Thank you so much for letting the principals have that kind of authority, because that's what the principals of the schools I've been seeing asked me to do. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u402	Thank you very much. I would ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Michał Woś to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u403	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much and for the positions of the clubs, and for the votes in this debate, even the most critical. Apart from those extremely manipulated or based on a complete lie, untrue, which I'm about to say is very important and I accept it with humility, because I have a deep conviction that each of them is a matter of concern. The truth is what is, among others. is written in the preamble that it is upbringing that is the common good of the whole society, and it should indeed be so. Thank you for the fact that there was so much good cooperation, good voices, mutual understanding in the work of the subcommittee in particular and then in the work of the committee. This led to the fact that, despite its far-reaching reservations, even to the recitals or to the various new powers, the State did not vote against what was a well-accepted, good signal. Of course, I am very happy about the next stages, because it really comes from concern, I have such a deep conviction. On the other hand, the scale of understatements, scale of simplifications, scale of actions or words which resulted from reading one or the other rather from a press article than a draft of this law, shows in fact that this debate can be something valuable, because it can explain some of the doubts that have arisen. Ladies and gentlemen! By law, maybe it's obvious, but you don't stop starving, you hate poverty, and so on. Unfortunately, the same bill will not lead to every kid in Poland being an angel. The bill is a tool package, a tool package that we pass on. Who are we handing it over to? We pass it on to those who work with children, cooperate. [[Voice from the hall: School principals.]] Family, parents who can interfere have the right tools here. Teachers, curators, who work widely - for example in probation centers - were asked that question. Every year, the Ministry of Justice increases the number of centres. Indeed, six years ago there were about 90 centers, now we have 130 and each year we add another one. There are 10 new openings this year, and there are funds for it. The judges, above all the environments of family judges, will use these tools. The directors of rehabilitation units, MOWs, correction facilities, and in the future of new educational centers - these are the people who do everything they can to ensure that these children, first being the pupils of the rehabilitation system, are not later the guardians of the penitentiary system. That's the purpose of this bill. Introduce modern methods based on healthy conditions to help as many children as possible, draw a helping hand from the state, so that they will follow the right path and return to the so-called. a normal society - that's the goal. Within this objective, all these tools are proposed, including a tool related to school heads. You have not noticed this new - praised, I will say, apart from some environments - an institution connected with the ability of directors to act, which is based on harmony, cooperation, on family. Family agreement, parents consent. Without the consent of parents or guardians, this institution will not work. [[Applause]] And what's more, it won't work without a minor's consent, the minor who doesn't agree to rake leaves, he won't rake them, and that's the end of it. And the case is back on track. Ladies and gentlemen! Let us not demonize the tools that wise educators receive with gratitude. Other smart directors, I don't give up, if they don't want to use them, they won't use them. But let us not forbid those who want to use them from using this tool according to their assessment. After all, they know their tutors and their pupils best. Ladies and gentlemen! Another case that needs to sound strong here. As Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, I would like to inform the High House that this law is above all a law - to a large extent, and this was the starting point - necessary. Thank you for those votes, for what you said. It is necessary from the perspective of the fact that the current Juvenile Procedure Act is a purely procedural law, it refers to the judicial procedure. When presenting a proposal to support the rehabilitation of minors, we propose a law to replace the current judicial procedure: juvenile proceedings. Of course, we're not blind. It's been five years. Therefore, a team of specialists, yesterday I spoke about this at the committee meeting, is made up of half of teachers, of people who are educators and are engaged in rehabilitation, not of lawyers, judges, although the law is largely strictly procedural. The point is that it should be as comprehensive as possible in the activities for which the Ministry of Justice is responsible. There were no flip-flops in front of him that there was a family court and nothing else. That's why they were educators, which is why there were those who also proposed solutions to the prefield. But we, with this extensive project, agree, are obliged to react, to order the state's response, to standardise the state's response to people who are already depraved, even the smallest, to minors who have committed a criminal act. So this law refers to minors, not minors -- that's another concept -- not minors, which I also talked about at the committee meeting, not children. There are, of course, children here, i.e. Young people, but it's not true what's happened here, that we're lowering the age of responsibility. On the contrary. The current law from the time of martial law leads to the fact that a 6-, 8-, 9-year-old child may be brought to justice and be liable in the context of juvenile proceedings. We give a rigid border developed by experts. There were different discussions on how to set this boundary. Experts have pointed out that this age of 10 is the most optimal for the state's response if they are depraved. It is not for closure in the correctional facilities, ladies and gentlemen, but for example - and it also sounds very strongly in this project - to the commitment of parents to specific behaviour, to the commitment of social organizations. Despite the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, we are deliberately pushing this to highlight those NGOs, which are also social organisations. The point is that this 10-, 11-year-old kid, if he doesn't have to, doesn't go to the isolation units. This bill gives us tools. The judge decides, decides the environment in cooperation with the family. That's her goal. As for what you have been saying and presenting here for the last hour and a half, I nodded my head and at some moments I even applauded because you described the current system. You were describing what we wanted to change. And this is a project that we're changing just to make it very wide-ranging. But, ladies and gentlemen, the presentation of tools, the presentation of tools doesn't mean that we have to see a happy, smiling child with flip-flops in front of us. Please bear in mind that these are often young people, that they are minors very corrupted, that they are the perpetrators of the most serious crimes. And we, with different tools, must lead to this grading. One's gonna have probation, the other one's gonna have a probation center, but there's a category of minors who end up at the Correctional Facility. Ladies and gentlemen, I was at the Zawiercie Correctional Facility on Monday. Come on in. Sometimes you're in a penitentiary. Welcome to the Correctional Facility. Actually, this is a girls' correctional facility. And these girls told me that they were grateful - in a normal conversation, they weren't some forced theaters - that they came to this place because it saved their lives. And that's a specific quote, a word for word. They're grateful that they went to the Correctional Facility because it saved their lives. And now we have a bill to close that possibility? Ladies and gentlemen, I appeal, please, we discussed this at the subcommittee and committee meetings. This law has a systemic approach so that the possibility of using tools is adapted to a particular minor. I am glad that we have been able to straighten this out, if you are now saying that it is not the case that you have accepted this, that this law is not, what has happened here, some repressive legal act, for which you think only about how to punish, but that this law has a whole package of legal tools that allow those who know the best, teachers, rehabilitation professionals and family judges, to use these tools to adapt the measures best suited to minors. Surely rehabilitation is in the centre, surely the child is in the centre and there is certainly a goal for this child to come back, to learn - because some people do not talk about rehabilitation and even about socialization, because it has bad patterns, because it comes from a pathological environment - so that it can live normally in society. Hence the individual rehabilitation programme - you also said that there is no such thing - hence a lot of conditions of freedom. Even when a means of isolation is used in the case of someone, no limit related to passes, with other activities which are tools in the hands of the director of this rehabilitation facility... Hence the state's support. And as part of this philosophy of approach to juveniles and proper use of tools, we have to stop the state machine at the school level, when it is appropriate, sometimes at the police level, when we are dealing with some kind of misdemeanor. At the moment, every misdemeanor that is mentioned as a manifestation of corruption or criminal act ends up in a family court. Why? Sometimes it's enough talking to a cop, talking to a cop. This case can be stopped at this stage. Courts should deal with the most serious cases. Of course, it cannot disappear from their field of view, from their eyes what is most important, i.e. to adapt the tools applied to a minor to a particular individual, to make them as effective as possible. There's been talk of those 10 years that we're supposed to be cutting it down. No, we're just picking it up. There is a rigid limit of 10 years in case of demoralization. As for the criminal acts, the limit is not moved, changed, i.e. it is 13 years, as it is now. But you also have to remember... [[Why 10?]] [[You should have listened, the minister explained.]] Ladies and gentlemen! We talked about this at the committee meeting. And you had to listen also at the committee meeting when Professor Haak explained it in detail. She did not benefit from the call for participation in the subcommittee, but it was very detailed and widely discussed in the work of the subcommittee - I refer to the transcript, to the protocol - explained in detail by the head of the team who worked on it. The undisputed authority, the greatest authority in the field of juvenile law, in the area of family justice, the person who actually shaped family justice, i.e. Prof. Henryk Haak, the family judge at rest, the University of Szczeciński, explained in detail how the decision that age was set at 10 years. Ladies and gentlemen! The specific question has already been asked - as for love, it is the end, the cherry on the cake, I remember, Mr President - why not the code. Indeed, there are procedural issues here, but not only procedural issues, that is, the whole package of actions that we propose and in the pre-field, in the context of demoralization and cooperation with the family, but also for just after the implementation of the correction measure or the educational measure, when minors leave the correction facility. But there are also purely procedural issues. After all, the Code of Civil Procedure applies to juvenile cases, unless it concerns certain institutions of the type related to the offence or other issues, institutions traditionally related to criminal law, then the Code of Criminal Procedure accordingly. It is hard to imagine that we would draw up a third code, call it a code law, in which we would actually refer in full to one code or another in proceedings. It is therefore a purely doctrinal, legislatively appropriate decision, also developed in discussions by experts, because this was also the subject of discussion. There's been some questions about the preamble. Ladies and gentlemen, please pay attention to this, because what aroused less controversy is whether a parent is a mother and a father. We have no doubt here. On the other hand, greater controversy on the opposition side aroused whether the Christian value system was discriminatory with the rest of the citizens or not. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the preamble, it is clear that education, which respects the Christian system of values, is based on the universal principles of ethics, i.e. grammatically, flexibly we refer here to education, which... Of course, there are also voices on the other hand, on the right, why we refer to universal principles of ethics rather than merely Christian values. We are here proposing a solution of this kind, which is fully in line with the Constitution. In turn, talking about the fact that the preamble is something less important, which is even a mistake in the legislative procedure or in the preparation of the project, is not justified. I refer to the Rules of Legislative Technology, but also to the fact that the current law on the handling of juveniles also has this preamble, i.e. it is within a single system. It was also a very strong axiological postulate, including family judges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Ladies and gentlemen! Just a little bit. As far as a public defender is concerned, the court can award a defender at any stage. And I would also like to point out that, as far as mothers are concerned, we are, of course, implementing here -- there is no Member -- the whole package. The details are in the regulation. On the other hand, I would like to say and stress once again that this law is the reaction of the state to corruption or to criminal acts, while we do not lose sight of activities related to another legal system, namely the law on supporting the family and the whole package of cases related to it. Mr Cymanski! Love deprived of firmness - definitely. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u404	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u405	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project concerns, according to the government, a comprehensive regulation of the issue of minors whose behaviour requires the intervention of state authorities. Therefore, it is planned to create new facilities for minors - district educational centres and, most importantly, to introduce the possibility of out-of-court response to juvenile misconduct. These regulations raise doubts, above all about the possibility for the head of the institution to punish pupils. I therefore ask you to answer: To what extent will the director imposing order penalties on students be subject to scrutiny? Will these people undergo specialized courses that will provide adequate legal knowledge so as not to make independent decisions, to decide what is wrong and what is good according to the head of the institution? Are these ideas designed to create new jobs in the education board?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u406	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate draft law amending the Act - Law on proceedings before administrative courts (Prints No 2072 and 2278). I would very much like to ask Mrs Elżbieta Płonka to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, sent on 7 March a draft law amending the Act - Law on proceedings before administrative courts, print No 2072... I am pleased and honoured to present on behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights a report on the work of the committee on this senate project. The draft of this law is the implementation of the request contained in the individual petition submitted to the Senate of the Republic, in which the author proposed to extend the regulation of the article. 69 Act - Law on proceedings before administrative courts for the possibility of delivery to the mail box. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 24 May this year. asks the High Sejm to approve the attached bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u408	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. You're welcome... Yeah, why isn't there a first club? [[Voice from the room: Because it was not announced.]] Not reported. Good. This is Mrs Katarzyna Maria Bakerska from the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u409	My dear Mr. Marshal! Fellow Members! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club regarding the draft law amending the law - Law on proceedings before administrative courts. This project is proof that petitions make sense, and the legislator listens to citizens, because it is a petition, which is worth noting, which is at the heart of this legislative proposal, which was prepared by the Senate. High Izbo! In any proceedings before courts, whether criminal or civil, or, as in this case, administrative, effective service of all pleadings plays a key role. In this project, it is proposed that at the request of the addressee, e.g. of course, the delivery of procedural correspondence could also take place at the address of the indicated post box. This is an important solution, because in practice it is known that there are problems with the delivery of procedural correspondence e.g. homeless persons or foreigners who are in the process of appeal, e.g. with refugee status. It also happens that the addressees of correspondence from the court cannot or do not wish to receive pleadings at the place of residence. It is worth mentioning here that similar regulations are already in force in civil and criminal proceedings. They've proven themselves. There is therefore no reason that the solutions proposed in print 2072 cannot be found in the procedure before the administrative courts. It is worth noting that the project received the approval of legal corporations in consultation. Therefore, Mr Marshal, my fellow Members, on behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition supports the draft law on amending the law - the law on proceedings before administrative courts. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u410	Thank you, madam. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour of presenting my position on behalf of the club Lewis regarding the draft law amending the law - Law on proceedings before administrative courts. First of all, it should be mentioned that this draft law would not have been in place if it had not been for the citizen involved who put forward an individual petition. It is on his initiative that this project, a short but extremely important one, is being considered in the Sejm today. It is an important democratic mechanism where citizens have a full right to inspire Parliament's work. Not only to inspire, but also to initiate Parliament's work. So that great thanks to the citizen who submitted this bill to the Committee on Petitions. The Committee on Petitions has forwarded it to the Commission for further examination. The project did not raise any controversy during the legislative work in the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. It provides for the possibility of delivery of postal mail in administrative proceedings to the postal box. It must be borne in mind that such solutions already function in other procedures. The Code of Civil Procedure regulates a similar solution, including the Code of Criminal Procedure, and the Code of Conduct in Criminal Matters. The proposed solution will ultimately facilitate access to the court for persons who, for various reasons, cannot receive correspondence at their place of residence, e.g. people in a homeless crisis. Often, the use of a post office box is simply convenient. The legal authorities were positive about this project. Finally, this short, but very important project is really bringing the courts closer to the citizens, it is really the implementation of the constitutionally guaranteed right to the court. The court is to be close to people and judicial correspondence is to be readily available, so this project meets the expectations of citizens. The Left will support this important project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u412	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u413	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, please. Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland, I would like to present in a few sentences the position of the club on the report of the committee on the Senate draft law amending the law - Law on proceedings before administrative courts, contained in the Seym Papers No. 2072 and 2278. I would also like to thank the applicant and the Committee on Petitions symbolically for preparing this project as a follow-up and model for my previous speakers. These are always very exceptional projects, which are a kind of civic signal, a call for changes in the legal system. I think that each time we respectfully lean on these initiatives. The speakers discussed the nature of the problem in detail, and I will not repeat it. I will just say that also in the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition project does not raise the slightest controversy, the slightest reservations and as much as possible in the course of further parliamentary work we will encourage it to be adopted as soon as possible. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u414	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050, is getting closer and closer... There it is. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! In proceedings before administrative courts, at the request of the addressee, service may be effected at the address of the post office indicated by him. Finally. It's weird that no one's ever thought of that before. Give it up for the petitioner. This is Mr. Karol Pachnik, who petitioned the Senate in September 2020. He pointed out that judicial administrative proceedings were the first regulation of judicial procedures to enable fully bilateral electronic communication with administrative courts. In this regard, in the opinion of the petitioner, Charles Pachnik's petitioner, the regulation is exemplary, but, as he pointed out, so far there is no provision for the delivery of court letters to the mailbox, and such regulations are in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the Code of Civil Procedure. Another round of applause for Mr. Charles. Hail the lawyer. Interestingly, Counselor Pachnik is the author and other petitions. I hope - and I receive such signals, Minister - that the Ministry of Justice will be open to new proposals for regulation, and apparently some petitions are being held back in the Ministry. After all, the power of citizens' petitions is enormous. A huge request for you, by the way, Mr. Marshal. Could it not be possible to invite petitioners to the Sejm when we are examining draft laws that were created on the basis of these petitions? Let's try to make this a habit. It's too bad Mr. Charles Pachnik isn't here with us today, in the Seym. Congratulations again to Charles Pachnik's attorney. Let us adopt this law in the mode of mini-max, i.e. minimum words, minimum disputes, and maximum good law, even as this law only counts two articles. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u416	Thank you kindly, sir. I wanted to tell you, Mr President, that your suggestion will be taken into account, as I am the Vice-Marshal responsible for the Committee on Petitions. I need to discuss this with the head of the Committee on Petitions and, of course, with the Marshal of the Sejm. Maybe that's a good idea. Thank you so much for the idea. [[Mr. Marshal, thank you.]] There you go. We respect your game, just like any other game. Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u417	Thank you. It's one of the few projects that doesn't make sense to criticize in this Seym. It doesn't happen very often, but it's great. I'm happy for this extraordinary opportunity. Interestingly, this is a problem that one of the voters referred to me a while ago, closer to the beginning of his term of office. I suggested to him that, yes, we can, within the framework of the Confederation, submit such a draft amendment, but I suggested that he turn to the Committee on Petitions. Of course, it wasn't the lawyer who put it together... But I may have somehow contributed to this bill, which I do not know, so it would not be right for me to criticize it now. But if I had to say something, say something a little bit, then I would say it's probably not good that we have to manually correct these things in every subsequent bill. I think the Polish law has grown to write it a lot again. There should be one law on the rights, the obligations of the citizen towards the state, to the authorities in which we would regulate, for example. how civil servants communicate with the citizen once and for all. One bill. When there is a new possibility, there will be new technical communication inventions, we will only improve it in one act, and we will not go through it once, once in that code, and then we will remember something else. That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u418	Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. There's six of them. I'm setting time for questions - one minute. If anybody else would like to join us, you're welcome. If there's no one, I'm closing the list. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u419	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Human rights in terms of a functioning justice system are a key issue for all of us. After the way courts work, there is a distinction between the rule of law and the so-called democratic countries. banana republics. In addition to the right to be tried by an independent, independent, just court, each citizen has an indisputable right to have his cases dealt with quickly and efficiently, including by administrative courts. This law therefore welcomes and welcomes the regulation of this issue by all clubs forming part of the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u420	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. There isn't. Mr Rafał Adamczyk. There isn't. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u421	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Indeed, this law is the result of a petition to Parliament. This is always an extremely pleasant moment from the point of view of the work of the Sejm, when matters governed by citizens are reflected in the draft law. I, on the other hand, have a question for the Minister. Because there was information that there were petitions that were held back by the Ministry and could improve citizens' contacts with state institutions. I have a request that the Minister be kind in writing to provide information on what petitions have been sent to the Ministry and why they are being held back. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u422	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u423	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It's a good bill. The contested law will undoubtedly facilitate access to courts for persons who, for various reasons, could not receive correspondence at their place of residence. It is also important for the homeless, as delivery to these people was quite problematic. The practical aspect is also important because the use of the post office box is simply more convenient. As is well known, according to the basic law, everyone has the right to a fair and public hearing without undue delay, so the fact that they will be able to receive correspondence from the box will be a great facilitation. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And there is doubt: Is the possibility of delivery of a court order through mailboxes likely to cause the length of proceedings, or are these concerns unjustified? Because it's about getting it well passed on when it comes to information. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u424	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My question is as if next to this law, because the solution to the fact that procedural correspondence can be delivered to a post office box is a solution for special situations. In normal circumstances such correspondence comes to the home address or to the address indicated. If the recipient isn't here, the mailman leaves a note. Then, of course, the post office needs to be signed and everything seems simple. At the same time, it appears from my parliamentary shifts that very often there is some misunderstanding, some underdevelopedness, and I find it difficult to clarify. If the notification does not reach the addressee, it causes a whole lot of complications, among others. Sometimes there are no court hearings, sometimes the person concerned has a sense of harm, because he cannot participate in the proceedings, because he has not received this notification. I am aware (The Bell) that this does not apply to this law, but the problem seems to me so socially important that I am paying attention to it. I've also done it in interpellation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u426	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Minister Sebastian Kaleta. Minister, I invite you very cordially.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! I very much welcome you to this warm atmosphere today. It's rare for us in the Sejm forum...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u428	Because I'm driving today, and that's why. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: ...with such sympathy they call each other. That's very good. The project, which was submitted on the basis of a petition, deserves support. He removes certain inconsistencies in procedures. In civil and criminal proceedings, this solution is functioning, there is no obstacle to this solution being present in the judicial procedure. Each solution in Polish law is introduced if the need for a specific procedure is diagnosed. In this case, it turned out that such comments were reported to us, so there are no obstacles to implementing this facilitation. Questions were raised during this debate. Mr Sosnierz pointed to the call for us to come to a point where we will have uniform contact with offices, whether administration or courts, so that there is clarity and efficiency in delivery. Such an e-service system is being introduced and will also apply to courts. Of course, implementation is ongoing and will take several years before this system is fully functional, reliable and will serve our citizens, while already these actions are adopted in the relevant law, implementation measures are being implemented. There's been a petition question. I deal with a certain area of competence of the Minister of Justice as Secretary of State, while among the current petitions that are submitted for my diagnosis, there is a petition concerning the remuneration of solicitors and lawyers. This petition in the Ministry is very carefully analysed and, as a result of its submission, we point to the need for research and analysis as to whether the problem raised in the petition is present and on what scale. The Ministry for this petition declares its willingness to cooperate far-reachingly. If these studies demonstrate the need to regulate laws concerning lawyers and counsels, then the Ministry will prepare such a project. I think I've exhausted... Mrs Fabisiak still asked about the problems with delivery. But she's gone. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: But it's worth the protocol... Great. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice of Sebastian Kalet: The problem of service efficiency and the fact that the party is wronged by the fact that there is a presumption of service, we have partially solved the service by the bailiffs, while it is difficult to find a perfect system in which there will always be certainty that official correspondence will actually reach the address where a specific person can be found, because people often move, sometimes forget to change their address. We are looking for solutions to ensure that the rights of the parties are maintained in the proceedings, as this also affects the efficiency of the proceedings. If there is a problem with previous service during the proceedings, then, of course, complications arise and the case lasts longer than it should. We don't know yet if this system is gonna work and it's gonna be the target system. This institution has been operating in Poland for almost more than a year. On the other hand, the information the Ministry has is that we have also received complaints about service. Personally, I feel that such complaints are less after these provisions have been introduced. Thank you very much, Marshal. Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Senate draft law amending the Act - Law on proceedings before administrative courts in print No. 2072 and 2278. The Senacki project provides for a change in the proceedings before administrative courts to enable the addressee to deliver a letter to the address of the mailbox indicated by him. In view of the fact that this possibility is also provided for in other judicial procedures, the introduction of this facility in proceedings before administrative courts seems justified. In this situation, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will vote in favour of the amendment proposed by the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u430	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance on the Government's draft Social Financing Act for business projects and assistance to borrowers (prints 2269 and 2318). I would very much like to ask Mr Marcin Porzuck to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u431	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Public Finance Commission has examined the government's draft Social Finance Act for business projects and aid to borrowers. 12 amendments were tabled during the discussion. All amendments have been accepted. Finally, the project was supported by 31 Members. Nobody was against it, no one held back. I would like to draw particular attention to the amendment concerning the extension of the anti-inflationary shield until the end of October. These shields are intended to support Poles during inflation, which is rampant throughout Europe and the world and after the epidemic, after the war is a great plague that affects our entire region. Notabene in Central Europe Poland has one of the lowest inflation rates and the second lowest unemployment rates across the European Union. That's it. I think this bill is especially expected by Poles. I hope that it will be well tested and accepted by the Sejm, as it has been done today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u432	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u433	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! The government's draft act on social funding for economic projects and helping borrowers with print no. 2269 after the subcommittee considered the issues of financial institutions was sent to the Public Finance Commission today. At its meeting, the Committee on Public Finance considered the report and the amendments tabled. There were 12 of them. Following the discussion, the draft submitted was unanimously adopted. As a result of the work of the subcommittee and the Committee on Public Finance, the solutions contained in the government bill were maintained, i.e. above all, increase the alternative opportunities to raise capital for entrepreneurs, in addition to obtaining it in the form of loans or securities issues, investment loans, in the form of social funding platforms. The second objective, which is preserved after the work of the subcommittee and the committee, is to introduce a mechanism to assist borrowers in connection with the increase in mortgage rates and the increase in monthly housing payments. The project maintained the credit holiday, i.e. the suspension of the loan for 1 month in the quarter in 2023 and 2 months in the quarter in the period from 1 July to 31 December 2022. It should be stressed that one of the amendments introduced the third objective of this law, i.e. extension of the use of the inflation shield, which reduces excise duty and VAT on energy carriers and fertilisers, from 31 July to 31 October. At the same time, by means of amendments, a number of amendments have been introduced to harmonise and clarify the provisions of the Act. The most discussed issue was the issue of credit holidays. Banks demand criteria for access to credit holidays. It is about not being universal, accessible to all. This is justified, among other things. large losses for banks, high costs for banks and threats to instability of the banking system - according to banks - as could be expected. They therefore propose the introduction of an income criterion, as is the case with access to the Creditor Support Fund. Credit holidays could be used by persons for whom repayment of credit, including interest, would exceed 40-50% income. They also propose the introduction of an additional property area criterion: 75 m On the other hand, associations representing borrowers have a different point of view. They claim that high interest rates generate very high bank profits, at least up to 20 billion this year, due to the increase in interest rates. They also argue that there is an urgent need to move away from the WIBOR indicator on the basis of which banks determine the interest rate on credit agreements. Besides, the change in the WIBOR indicator was announced by Prime Minister Morawiecki and the work on this is done. The Act includes the procedure for using alternative indicators, and what this will be specifically... According to the Minister of Finance, this will happen soon. At the same time, representatives of borrowers demand a credit holiday in the form of as many as 12 instalments, i.e. these are completely different positions. We believe that the government project, in the form in which it leaves the Committee on Public Finance and is directed to present reading, contains intermediate solutions and meets very important objectives, including. enriches the Creditor Support Fund. As you know, it gives you the opportunity to redeem up to 1/3 of the borrowing. As you may be aware, support from the Creditor Support Fund may amount to a maximum of 2 000. and be paid for 36 months, which gives (the bell) a total amount of 72 thousand. zł. If the instalments of the loan are systematically repaid, 100 instalments, or 22 000, may be surrendered. We do not have time to discuss this in detail, but we believe that this is a very good step towards helping borrowers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u434	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Izabela Leszczyna, Civic Coalition. We're losing it. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u435	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Two weeks ago, I started my speech on the fact that I informed you that the mortgage payment for a small two-room apartment, taken into credit for 25 years, is now 2.5 thousand. zł. This is an increase of more than 50% compared to the instalment of September of the previous year. However, these data are very quickly out of date. When the banks sit down at the table to set WIBOR, it will again turn out to be more. When we ask people how much their mortgage payments have increased, we hear: about 1000 PLN, 1500 PLN, 1200 PLN, 900 PLN. This is not a mythical 200 PLN or 300 PLN Marshal Karczewski. Meanwhile, your project comes back from the finance committee sub-committee and we have really not only the deliberations but also the assessments of the borrowers themselves, and they clearly say: vacations will end someday and we do not know what will happen when they need to be returned. Therefore, I have very specific questions to the Minister: What measures has the government taken and taken to provide banks with more mortgage loans with a fixed rather than variable interest rate? I would like to remind you that Poland is a European phenomenon in this area - nowhere else is there so many loans based on a variable, very risky, negative interest rate for customers. What did the government-controlled banks do about it? Is there some kind of impossibility here again? What solutions do you have for people who are no longer creditworthy? What is the management of the succession after the Living + ¿ programme? What about tens of thousands of families or young, hard-working people who are still waiting for any option of living not on credit or not on an angle with their parents? We are in a crisis situation and we need a solution that will reduce credit costs for ordinary people. And this solution is on the table, this solution was also rejected by the voices of Law and Justice, it is about freezing WIBOR to the level of 2019 for at least 12 months. It's real help, not temporary relief. Moreover, this solution is immune to the suicidal policy of the National Bank of Poland and regular interest rate increases. But all this will not work unless there is an alternative option to mortgage loans on apartments. And it can't be that in Poland the only and the default alternative is either mortgage credit or waiting for a fall from parents. The state must conduct a real housing policy, support local governments, subsidise them accordingly in order to enable them to build not only social or municipal housing, but also apartments for long-term rentals, apartments for people earning the national average. Instead, we have municipalities selling out municipal premises and areas under construction, the failure of the program Living + ¿ and the Polish Post selling very attractive plots on which such a housing estate could be built. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, banks make money in the crisis and the rising WIBOR rate, but developers aren't afraid either because they already have a plan B. These apartments will be buying investment funds in a moment. And how did the Polish state prepare for this? What tools do you have? Because in the case of Airbnb, you pretend that the Polish country does not exist and you do not react to the things that happen to the housing market. It is time to understand that housing is a sector that is as demanding of policy as education or health, which also requires reflection, reflection and systematic work. We need solid, large-scale investments in low-rent apartments. We need to sort out honest mortgage loans, quick solutions such as freezing WIBOR. We are proposing an amendment which will make it possible for a larger group of borrowers to benefit from this support, which is the Creditor Support Fund, but we also have no doubt: what you are proposing is far too little. We can't wait until January, and you can't say, "We'll see how your instalments will evolve when we decide what indicator will replace WIBOR." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u436	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. I invite you, Jack, very cordially.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u437	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Vladimir! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We're doing it again because it's a second reading, a government project that puts its main emphasis on helping mortgage holders. This is not the only area that the government's proposed law deals with. Many of the contributions that took place at today's committee meeting, according to the Legislative Bureau of the Sejm, violated the principles of good legislation, because they concerned tax issues, and the debate in the Sejm should begin not at the committee meeting, even the most noble one, but at the plenary session. This is the principle that before the government of the PiS was honored and respected by all previous teams. This is not the first of the principles of good parliamentarianism that PiS violates in its political practice. More importantly, however, we are debating the day when the Monetary Policy Council once again raised the reference rate, i.e. the basic indicator that affects the amount of the loan instalments: not only mortgage payments, but all loans granted in the Republic of Poland. This will inevitably mean an increase in the interest rate on loans, especially mortgages, perhaps since July, which is quite soon, because in just three weeks' time. Thus, the interest rate on loans: and these cash loans, and mortgage loans, are dangerously approaching 10% in our country. And in order to illustrate the scale of the problem, I will mention examples of several European countries. E.g. in Slovakia, the rate of housing loans is just over 1% in France and Portugal, and in Finland, less than 1%. Therefore, let us realize at which point we are Poles after 7 years of running the PiS team. Yes, dear citizens, I address you. This government, the government of Mateusz Morawiecki, is a kind of reconstructive group of ways of governing the government of the Polish People's Republic. Bravely and fully committed, he tries to solve the problems that he has caused, he has generated. According to the government's proposal, the most important tool for helping borrowers would be a credit vacation, i.e. suspension of repayment of credit instalments: four in the second half of this year and four in the next year. The government prides itself on this proposal, but in many European countries such suspension of payments applies for up to 12 months. Last but not least, it is important to recall that inflation, which is the Monetary Policy Council and the PiS-Polish President of the National Bank of Poland, is the decisive influence on the increase in loan instalments. Only that such high inflation in Poland is the result of the release of a huge amount of money to the market. This happened not only because of irresponsible decisions or errors of the Prime Minister of PiS and the President of the NBP PiS, but also because the policy of PiS led to the ineffectiveness of saving. The interest rate on bank deposits was so low that no wonder that people began to take their savings out of banks and place them mainly in the real estate market. And the housing prices have jumped, and it's very high. In order to buy a basic, small, two-room apartment today, especially young families had to borrow more and more, so not as a result of their own carelessness, but as a result of the irresponsible and harmful policies of the PiS authorities fell into debt trap. Therefore, the Polish Coalition Club makes several amendments to this project. First of all, the real aid for borrowers will be a zero margin for lending banks. For the sake of clarity, a margin of 2% with a debt of 300,000. PLN is less than 500 PLN and the same 2% with a half-million-dollar credit card, 500,000. Zloty, leaves more than 800 zlotys in his pockets. And let's not worry about the banks, because they're already making the difference between deposits and loan instalments. It's been almost 4% for a few months, so they make a lot of money on this situation. Secondly, we propose the liquidation of the so-called. Belka's tax. When we want people to save money, we must not take away their profits from these savings. And don't confuse your eyes that this is impossible and will affect the state budget (the bell) or harm the banks. They didn't renationalise the banks to say today: we can't do anything, we can't influence their decisions. Think of the citizens, not the bankers, think of the interests of the citizens, not the interests of the bankers. Thank you very much. And the corrections, Mr. Marshal, I'll bring them in two, three minutes because I left them in the locker room. I'll deliver them to you in the middle of this debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u438	Mr President, we will be patient and happy to wait for your amendments. [[Voice from the room: Gladly even.]] Yeah, it's just today's a good day. It's been a bad time. Mr Krystian Kaminski, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are proceeding on a government draft law on social financing for business projects and assistance to borrowers. Let me focus on the second part, i.e. borrowers. Today we have learned that the Monetary Policy Council is raising interest rates again, so the loans will go up again. And now the question is, is it because of the people who signed these loans at variable rates that they didn't know they would? After all, people who sign these contracts don't have to be specialists, they don't need to know everything. They know the banks are making money, but they don't assume that the contracts they're signing are gonna be so unfair to them. Unfortunately, the banks are in a privileged position and this needs to be cut off. Why is interest rate increases at all? For a simple reason, inflation. It's inflation, which you contributed to by adding money during lockdowns, by handing out. You spend PLN 2 billion a year on public media. You spent PLN 2.6 billion on the reconstruction of the Saski Palace, from which they just bought new cars. But also others: Platform, PSL, Left - PLN 620 million for funding for decoders and televisions, PLN 11.4 billion for 14 pensions. Instead of revalorizing these pensions more often, not taxing them, we throw in PLN 11.4 billion. And this will naturally raise inflation, because you're giving away money to the left and to the right, and then young people, young couples, have to pay for all of this in loans and inflation. In December of average earnings 30% It was on loans and rents for the apartment. At the turn of March and April it was 60%. We bring people to a level they have to count on every month to see if they have enough by the end of the month. In addition, people who wanted to take new loans also have a huge problem. According to the Credit Information Office, in May the year to year was 51%. less credit claims for mortgages. Also, young people who would like to buy their own apartments now cannot do so. And who's profiting from this situation? If the Prime Minister is a bankster, then of course the banks. The net profit of the banks in the period January - April is 9190 million. 111% more year to year. Banks gain enormously, and ordinary citizens lose their lives. And that's what needs to be stopped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u440	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u441	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! In fact, it could be said that the government is using obstruction, delaying changes in credit law that would support Poles and Poles in an era of drastic and rapid interest rate growth, because if there is a need for an urgent law that the government cares about, we can process it one night, and if we are to help the borrowers, the government has long wondered about the proposed changes. A little one. What you're proposing is not enough change. They will not help those who will actually find themselves in the most difficult situation in life. Let's just take a look at the credit vacation. You offer them very widely, in principle for all borrowers regardless of wealth and income, but you offer them very shallowly and in fact freezing one of the three installments next year will not help a person who loses his job and will not have anything to cover two consecutive instalments, that is, such a person will start falling into a spiral of debt and will in fact threaten to lose his apartment, which has so far been systematically repaid. This solution is unacceptable for us, which is why I will submit today's amendment to introduce a 10% credit holiday for those in the most difficult situation of their lives the duration of the contract still to be repaid so that such persons actually have a chance to get back on their feet and then pay such instalments suspended. The banks were very clear that they were ready to talk about this solution. Another thing that is absolutely missing. Sealing the Creditor Support Fund. So what if we add money there, which means that the application can be submitted in remote, online mode, since in fact this fund is unavailable to many Poles and Poles who today are unable to pay their credit payments, because even if it does not cover the amount of the instalments or they do not meet the income, because the cost of living has increased and this household budget does not stick even with much higher incomes than we took into account in creating this fund. These parameters need to be changed. Again, I don't know what you're defending. Financial institutions and their representatives have clearly said that they are ready for such changes. Government proposals are missing. And one last thing. Change in benchmarks. Unacceptable mode in which we work. We need urgent and important systemic changes. Today's way of determining WIBOR is, first, non-transparency, second, has nothing to do with the cost of the money that banks are trading, (the bell) and WIBOR is estimated on the basis of declarative transactions that are not actually occurring or occur to a very small extent.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u442	Thank you very much, madam. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u443	Because 2 million banks raise in a completely different way, not in the way WIBOR is designated. For us, these are assumptions. Unacceptable, insufficient.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u444	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u445	The government doesn't want to solve a problem that will harm all of us if it stays unsolved.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u446	Thank you, once again, cordially, Madam, for your statement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u447	I am submitting amendments of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 and we hope that the government will bend over them again in the end. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u448	And the corrections? Mr Robert Kwiatkowski. We're losing it. And we invite Mrs Isabella Leszczyna, whom we have been waiting for, but we are glad that she is with us. [[I'm happy for you, too.]] Madam, the speaker is the Member. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! Thank you so much for your understanding.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u450	I'd love to.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u451	The Monetary Policy Council today raised the reference rate to 6%. What does that mean for a family that borrowed 25 years last year? This family's rate has increased by over 90%. And what does that mean for a family that borrowed for 30 years last year? This will increase the family's rate by 112%. What about the PiS government? PiS proposes a credit holiday, which means that for 8 months you have to pay the installment, for 4 months you can not pay it, but note, this paid for 8 months is twice the size, so in fact this family will pay no 12 instalments, only 16 instalments, because after all it pays the double payment. And how are those who really need to deal with these 16 installments a year? The piss doesn't answer that. These holidays are also designed in such a way that a person such as Prime Minister Morawiecki, who has several houses, several apartments, can use them. All she has to do is live in an apartment that she just borrowed from, and she's gonna want a vacation to get a loan for this apartment. Are these really people who need help? It's kind of like a tax relief for those who wanted to buy a palace. I think it bought some, maybe even the Prime Minister's wife, but we won't know, because her assets are top secret. What else does the government suggest? The government is once again bragging about the Creditor Support Fund, also introduced by the Civic Platform in 2015. The problem with this fund is that today after many years these support conditions are so restrictive that marriage, two people, even if it earns a national average and has three children, does not deserve support from this fund because it is too rich. Who exactly is this fund for? Why brag about it? Unless for the well-being of banks and Moravian Prime Minister. One of the presidents said that in May there was much, much more borrowers than before about this loan. They did it because they don't know that they're just not gonna get support from this fund because their wages are gonna be too high. And what did the PiS reject? PiS rejected our simple, fair bill, a bill made by the Civic Coalition Club, which speaks in the simplest way: if you are deceived by Glapiński, then for 24 months you have the right to pay such a payment as you paid in December, it is easier not to. Attention, we don't want to finance those with six houses and five apartments. Our help is dedicated only to those who have one apartment, they have no right to any other. They took a loan because they had nowhere to live. Unfortunately, contrary to the rules of the PiS Sejm, this law was rejected during the committee work. This law did not stand in plenary at all. What are the costs? Well, the calculations of the Polish Bank Association say that credit holidays cost banks up to PLN 30 billion. Our bill is 13, up to PLN 15 billion. I assure you that borrowers would prefer to pay the instalment from December ub. r. for 12 months than to have a credit holiday. And finally, one more thing. How to implement the Social Financing Directive include borrowers and finally extend the so-called. an anti-inflationary shield, which turned out to be a pro-inflationary shield, what did everyone talk about, and what did they warn about? And now there's proof of that. Gasoline without VAT, excise duty and other charges prior to the introduction of the anti-inflationary shield in Poland had such a price that only five European Union countries had this price lower. Attention, following the introduction of an anti-inflationary shield in 20 countries of the European Union, the price of petrol is lower than in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Yeah, that's the graph from a week ago. And this one's before the anti-inflationary shield was introduced. My question is, did you lower your VAT on gasoline to make Orlen more profitable, and both of you have a higher bonus? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u452	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. 15 people volunteered to ask questions. Would any of you like to come in again? Two people. I'm gonna need you to sign in. So it's going to be 16, 17, 18. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time for questioning - 1 minute. I invite Mr Jan Szopiński from the parliamentary club Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u453	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In his opinion, the Polish Bank Association drew attention to the common nature of the proposed tax vacations, whose aim was to save the household budgets of the lowest-income people, not the economic impact on the banking sector. It is a good thing that this opinion of the Polish Bank Association has not been taken into account by proposals for amendments to this law, because banks are self-financing institutions, acting on the basis of the principle of economics and competitiveness. The bankers pointed out that the proposed rules lead not so much to helping the public as to the systemic limitation of the profitability of their activities. And it's a good thing we're on the side of our country's citizens, not the side of the banks. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. There isn't. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Another increase in interest rates is another increase in mortgage payments, this is an announcement of a financial tragedy for many thousands of Poles and Poles. The State should now help borrowers and the aid should be effective. Will the State in the Ministry freeze mortgage instalments at December 2019 level? Because that would be an effective help for all those who have taken out loans, and right now they are in big financial trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u456	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u457	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today, another decision of the Monetary Policy Council and more interest rates up. This, of course, affects tens, hundreds of thousands of borrowers paying monthly instalments. And the question is, what is the government's intention at all? 'Cause you're really gonna be helping people who have a few apartments, and in the case of those who really need support right now, because they're gonna make ends meet, they're gonna collect for their installments, this help comes late. The credit vacation you're proposing is actually a distance between the profits of the banks that are going to come anyway. The question is: Can this law be further improved? Can she really respond to the needs of those borrowers who are now thinking about what's gonna happen to their apartment, or are they gonna have to sell this apartment to pay off the loan to the bank? And it also affects the overall economic situation, the overall perception, the perception of how difficult we are. We're at a time of high cost, we're at a time when nearly 70% Poles and Poles are already speaking directly this year: we will not have holidays, we will not have rest, because the government pays us on everything: at stations, in electricity bills, in gas bills. What happens when a person is responsible for criticizing evil authority? There is a proposal for disciplinary release and only pressure of opposition, pressure of public opinion, pressure of the media, which causes the Polish Post to withdraw from the shameful decision. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u458	Thank you very much. Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We're working on a bill to help borrowers. What's gonna change this bill? Nothing, I'm just gonna delay the sentence in time, 'cause the high installments are gonna have to be paid anyway. Isn't this bill gonna be the same as your loans without your own contribution to the apartment? Somehow it didn't move, only one bank decided to introduce such loans into its offer, and it was probably under duress, because it was a state bank of PKO BP. Poles are waiting for a real fight with inflation, stop printing money without coverage. This is the only way out of inflation - a reduction in loan instalments. And first of all, we need to help all investments, because only they will help us get out of inflation in the long term. On the other hand, the Prime Minister of our government secured himself: when Mr.Glapiński said that he would definitely not raise interest rates, the Prime Minister of our government bought bonds for 4.6 million of his own money and now the higher inflation, the greater Mr. Prime Minister's profit. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: How could he know?]] Shame, Prime Minister. If you knew that, why didn't you tell the Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u460	Thank you very much. Mrs Claudia Jachir. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u461	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will ask the unpopular question in this House: Is it absolutely necessary to help all borrowers? Today, to take a mortgage of $500,000. zł, a three-person family must earn 20,000. gross zloty per month. I'm sorry, but this isn't the poorest part of our society, and instead of bidding in this room, who will give everything equally, we'll help them much more if we don't endlessly indebt the budget if we stop inflation and expensive. Then money will gain again on value, it will finally be worth saving, working and taking a loan, whose instalments will not make us bankrupt. By the way, earnings naturally through growth and economic prosperity should grow so that we are able to set aside on our own in a few years. Real estate prices don't go crazy when you don't have to run away with savings. The irresponsible economic policy of this government is the cause of successive crises (the bell) which, as usual, are trying to heal by adding empty money to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen! Did you notice that the more inflationary shields we have, the more inflation we have? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u462	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u463	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ministers! What is it that they do not have, and what will they face outside today's law on the aid of the borrower? Because the value of money goes to the head, to the neck. The purpose of monetary policy by the National Bank of Poland is not achieved. Let me remind you that this inflation target is 2.5% plus minus 1% deviations. It was not when the president of the new National Bank of Poland was appointed. If he participated in the debates, he attended half an hour - he presented his position and left. We need a serious, solid strategy to fight inflation, and that's not there. Today we want to solve the problem of borrowers, but we are not talking about solving the problems of those who commute to work, those who pay higher prices for fuel - at stations it is more and more expensive, those who go to shops buy and see that less and less in the cart (the bell), those who go for drugs and for this reason also pay higher prices. If there is no specific policy and strategy for combating inflation, we will really still have at least 100 such debates here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u464	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u465	When will such a strategy be and when will the government's benchmarks finally be prepared? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u466	Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u467	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u468	Thank you. Is Mr Mishalski here? There isn't. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Mr Mirosław Suchoń is as always. Come on in. [[Of course, Mr. Marshal. I'm trying not to let you down, Marshal.]] It's true.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u469	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the government is responsible for such high inflation, there is no doubt about it. On the other hand, raising interest rates is in fact an attempt to halt this trend of inflation growth, and it could be said that this law is such criminal justice. You know perfectly well that you are acting against what the central bank is doing today: you are pumping money, you are generating an inflationary boost, so you are suspending people's loan instalments, you want these instalments to be suspended. On the other hand, Minister, I ask you what is happening to the other people when the government finally acts, interacts with the central bank and cools down this inflation. Because if you act like this so far, i.e. act against what a central bank is doing, inflation in Poland will become another king, it will be with us (the Bell) for many months and people will lose more than they will gain thanks to what can be read in this bill today. So the question is, when are you going to start acting in such a way that you can cool down inflation and not water gasoline inflationary fire? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u470	Thank you very much. Madam, who wanted to join the list... I'd like to hear your voice, ma'am, because two people are out, so we'd really like to hear your voice. Mr Adrian Zandberg. [[I can say something twice.]] I don't know if this is a good idea, but if it makes you happy, I think we can do it sometime. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Parliamentary Club Left, Party Together. There you go. [[You didn't like it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u471	High Izbo! Minister! It is better, of course, than nothing, and it is good that the government, after many months, when the Left was beating the alarm on this matter, brought up the subject, but we all know in this House that this is not enough. We all know that we must finally take action to change this absurd situation, which is that in Poland is dominated by risky loans, variable rate loans, loans that serve the owners of capital invested in banks, but in the long run are extremely detrimental to the safety of Polish families. My question is very simple: What do you want to do, but really, and not by asking the banks kindly to do something, only really, with the power to cause you to get out of this psychic situation, in which Poland really departs from practically all the countries of the European Union in this respect (the bell), in a dangerous way for the safety of Polish families? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u472	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u473	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The housing policy of the state is something that involves funding through local governments, e.g. building municipal housing, in which they must be helped, to finance housing cooperatives, both old and those that will arise, to help with preferential loans, so that people can organize and build their apartments and finally to support individuals, families who want to buy a cheap apartment, with a guarantee of mortgage loans. Then you can talk about the policy of a country that supports this type of person. Let me remind you that 80% persons who take mortgages for the construction or purchase of an apartment or for the construction of a house, they are young people. Today, the government proposes an ad hoc solution at a time when these young people, young couples, took mortgages to guarantee their own homes, but they have to pay off these loans for almost a lifetime. We accept an ad hoc solution in the form of a transfer of several months' assistance to these people. [[♪ The bell ♪]] How will these young people respect their country if we deceive them in advance?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u474	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u475	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, At today's meeting of the Committee on Public Finance, you introduced an amendment to extend the operation of the so-called "public finance committee." Anti-inflationary shield. Today I would like to strongly protest against calling these anti-inflationary solutions. These are cover solutions, solutions that Members of the Civic Platform, the Civic Coalition, of course, support, because we need to help Poles whose country you are destroying with galloping inflation. I wonder why you're so stubborn, I'd say you're actually maniacally calling these anti-inflationary solutions. Probably because you want to give the impression that you have an idea that you know how to solve this problem. Meanwhile, your only idea is to wait out inflation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u476	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u477	The fact that you're talking today about inflation, which forces you to raise interest rates, that you're talking today about the need for a credit vacation, it's not a crisis, but the result of the fact that your brains were on vacation a while ago. I'll remind you that it's not just the PiS, but everyone from the PiS to the Platform and the Left you voted for the lockdowns that broke the supply chains, and that's what made the demand bigger than the supply now, so we have inflation. All of you, left to right, voted in favour of the hand. Even today we hear that Donald Tusk supports 500+ converted to 700+, which is another reason for current inflation. Now you're screaming that the government is reprinting money, which is obviously scandalous, but that's because you voted in this distribution over and over. You'd think you'd learn from your mistakes, but now you're proposing solutions that drive inflation again. I have one more point to Mrs Leszczyna, because she said that people deceived by Mr Glapiński should be compensated (the bell) unless they have more than one apartment. Does this mean that those who have more can be deceived, and those who have less can't? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u478	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u479	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I'll tell you a few facts. First of all, PiS-owski President of the National Bank of Poland deceived millions of Poles, cheated because he said that there would be no inflation, and inflation is very high and will be even greater. Secondly, he cheated because he said he wouldn't raise interest rates and raises like a speedster. The cost of life in Poland is extremely high today. Another thing, ladies and gentlemen, which has changed over the course of the year. Credit rates are twice as high, but at the same time banks earn more than 100% More. You're offering a credit holiday. Who's this credit vacation for? First of all, offer the bonds against the expensive. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki knows how to do this, he can quickly implement it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] He secured his millions. Secondly, introduce such loan instalments as were in December Ub. R., because otherwise many people who have taken out loans in good faith to buy their own private apartment are standing on the brink of bankruptcy today. This is unacceptable. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u480	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Izabela Leszczyn.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u481	Mr. Marshal! I need a few seconds. Mr Berkowicz asked if it was possible to deceive the wealthy, those who have two apartments. Mr Berkowicz, of course you cannot deceive anyone, but you have the duty to help those who, as a result of this deception, can become homeless. Those who invest in real estate, on the other hand, I don't think they're so naive that Glapiński could fool them. But, of course, full consent, not to cheat - and that is what we dedicate to President Glapiński. And my question to Minister Patkowski - I only ask you to answer in writing, because you've tried to explain it quite vaguely several times, but I don't think you were doing very well. You're talking about a loan vacation, but in my opinion, it's not like it's in the bill. Well, you say that in total, these are the eight instalments that will be postponed at the end of the loan period, and that this loan period will not be subject to further interest, will not be subject to additional charges, i.e. (The bell) the transfer of the instalment without any additional cost to the borrower. I would like to receive in writing whether the capital of these eight instalments will be removed from the general capital, transferred to the end of the loan, and what percentage it will be subject to then. I'm asking for a specific answer, because people just don't know. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u482	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! After 4 months of interest rate growth, the bank's profits amounted to more than PLN 9 billion. More than PLN 9 billion net is the result of a sector that is very keen to raise the interest rate on loans, but does not increase the interest rate on deposits at all, which makes the whole interest rate policy go down the chimney because, in fact, in order to attract money from the market, it is necessary to increase the attractiveness of deposits or issue anti-inflationary bonds to the central bank. Why is the government silently looking at such practices? Why does the government quietly allow Poles and Poles to get rich in the financial sector? This profit results in an increase - year to year 111%. It cannot be that in a time when Poles live very difficult (the bell) when they are unable to pay their loan instalments, financial institutions, Orlen or coal companies, or intermediaries selling coal are getting richer on morga. That's the thing. Unacceptable, the government quietly allows it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Marcin Porzucek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome, sir. [[Just calmer than the Pacans.]] [[Oh, it's you! No, it's not you.]] Don't react, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u485	Ladies, please calm down. President Jarosław Kaczyński has already spoken on this subject. Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs Leszczyna, but no longer, has just presented a peculiar list on fuel prices. Fuel prices in Poland are among the lowest in Europe. But in addition to such nominal prices, it is also worth looking at how many times full can be refueled in a given country of the European Union, taking into account the average salary. And here we are helped by Katarzyna Lubnauer, an influential politician from the Civic Coalition, who a few days ago presented to us that in almost all Central European countries the situation of drivers is worse, given the average salary in these countries - Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Bulgaria, Romania, Greece, Croatia, Italy, Portugal. The same is true in the Czech Republic. In fact, we are a little short of Norway in Germany or Sweden. We will strive to change this, but in Central Europe the situation is completely... [[But inflation is higher.]] Mrs Bell, inflation in Central European countries is higher in most Central European countries than in Poland. Yes - Czech Republic, Estonia. Thank you. [[No, just in Latvia.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u486	Thank you very much. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. Cheslav dear, sir, I cordially invite you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We're all referring to this, we're pointing out, we're talking about the burden that housing loans have become, how they're growing. So aid to borrowers is one of the most urgent tasks to be carried out, the more the situation is dynamic, interest rates are rising. Today, the Monetary Policy Council has also increased these rates. Probably these increases will be in the coming months, which means that loan instalments are increasing and the burden on families that are burdened with these loans is increasing. The question is also why, when we have had such a dynamic situation since autumn, we took action so late, working on solutions that would support borrowers. Secondly, these proposed solutions are too modest (the Bell) for those in financial difficulties. And finally, what are the costs of really a credit holiday? Is that 20 or 30 billion? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u488	Thank you, sir. Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u489	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Inflation. Inflation isn't random, it didn't just happen, because inflation was before the Russian-Ukrainian aggression, and we all know it. To my question to President Glapiński, how much money was printed in 2021, imagine that I received the answer: 144 billion, but this did not affect monetary policy. I am now referring to people who are in a very difficult situation in life. People who don't talk about house loans anymore, apartment loans. I've received a lot of emails from people who have borrowed loans to heal, I'm asking you to treat sick children who require surgery abroad. These loans have been made with the thought that they will be repaid in a few years, and unfortunately this situation is too much for these people. How will you help those who have taken several dozens, sometimes several hundred thousand to save lives? Because the government doesn't do its job, the government doesn't do it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u490	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Michał Grammar, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u491	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The loan instalments are increasing. The mortgage rates grow in an even uncontrollable way and represent a huge burden for tens, for hundreds of thousands of Polish families. But there is also a much more disturbing process. Well, the credit rating of Poles and Poles is decreasing. They can borrow less and less. These are all people who believe you. These are all people who believed the president of the central bank. Today we have the situation that loan instalments go up worryingly, the credit capacity of Poles and Poles is falling, deposits are standing still and banks are making fantastic money. You have a chance to reflect again. We have tabled an amendment that eliminates the so-called. Belka's tax. You shouldn't even like this tax by its name. Maybe this is a small and important gesture for millions of Poles and Poles? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u492	Thank you very much. Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u493	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A lasting feature of a private-owned banking system is that the transmission of monetary impulses that trigger the central bank is being inhibited. They do not reach the economy through commercial banks because they apply their private property policies. And now, we have a situation where the central bank raises interest rates, they raise interest rates on loans to inhibit money flow into the economy, to inhibit inflation, and banks should, in turn, raise deposit rates to draw money from the economy on the other hand, but they do not. Then tell me if, in this situation... This is a long-known story, it has not happened now, and this is due to the privatisation of the banking sector, where you have the opposition of huge merits. Ladies and gentlemen, in this situation in Poland one of the Polish banks, PKO, increased the interest rate on deposits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does the Minister have knowledge and can he tell you what the result is? Are there any savings coming into this bank? Did the other banks follow the PKO and which ones? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u494	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u495	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Trusting citizens in your country is a very important feature. Many people, especially young people with young families, believed the representatives of the state, the President of the National Bank of Poland and others, deciding on mortgages for their dream first apartment and often the only apartment. Is this aid enough for this group? I would like to ask the Minister, who said at the first reading of the Act, that a small group of people applied to the Creditor Support Fund earlier, when, of course, this situation was not so dramatic because of the increase in interest rates. In view of the above, I would like to ask whether you are currently observing an increase in the number of people applying to the Credit Support Fund. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, other rules, I hope, will include a fund that will allow a wider group of people to benefit from this assistance. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u496	Thank you very much. I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Patkowski to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u497	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will remind you of what I said in my first reading and during my work in the Committee on Public Finance. The proposed support project for borrowers has three principles, based on three pillars. Firstly, it is intended to relieve those borrowers who have borrowed loans, without separation, without labeling, so that it is universal. This solution is a credit vacation. At the same time, we irritate support for the most deprived. The Creditor Support Fund has already been mentioned many times here, which is also, as we noticed in May, more and more interested. However, as a government, of course, but we also oblige the banking sector to do so, we encourage you to convince borrowers, those who are entitled to use this form of support. A systemic change, a change that no opposition project has proposed, a change that is really aimed not only at helping here and now, although it is very important, but it has a systematic solution to this problem - it is the determination of the procedure to indicate the replacement and to align it with the alternative indicator set by the GPW Benzmark. And that's actually a key thing at this point in time, and it's a key thing at this point. It is not just a matter of helping ad hocly here and now, although this is very important and very important in the current situation, but it is about addressing the subject and solving the problems systemically. The system solution is the most important at this point, although of course it is the most complicated to carry out. It requires very active cooperation between the GPW Benzmark, financial security institutions and the banking sector, but we are taking steps to make it happen. This law sets the framework for this system solution to be carried out. On the other hand, we now have a designation procedure before us under the auspices of the GPW Benzmark and KNF. We just want this to be achieved by consensus. A few things, on the other hand... The system solution is also, ladies and gentlemen, the use of State Treasury bonds so that Poles can buy these retail bonds also in order to encourage banks to increase the interest rate on their investments. This is also a system solution, not an ad hoc solution. As far as retail bonds are concerned, we'll probably have data on how many billions of these bonds have gone. As for the banks, frankly, I don't have that kind of data. The National Bank of Poland probably has them. However, this is not the case. We can already see at least two banks - as it happens, they are banks with the State Treasury - that they have raised the interest rate of their investments very clearly. So that it works, this bond system solution works. However, these are not competitive solutions and this is also important. Another thing is, of course, repeated by the opposition every time a spell, but a spell that needs to be undone. You are talking about printing money, adding money, so every time I remind you of data: the deficit of the entire Polish public finance sector for 2021 was the sixth lowest deficit in the European Union, so something is not right. The state is constantly talking about uncoverable money, while at the same time we have the sixth lowest deficit in the European Union. So where are your data? I will never understand how it is that Poland has the lowest deficits in the European Union, we have one of the lower levels of debt compared to GDP, but of course Poland is printing money. [[Voice from the hall: Why is this debt so expensive?]] Mrs Leszczyna. All I remember is that as it is always said that the French have higher deficits and the French have more debt, then the answer is: Who will forbid the rich? Economics are not governed by such laws. The fact is a fact, my fellow Member. We have the sixth lowest deficit for 2021. 2022, of course, is a challenge, but that is what we are facing. The second thing, of course, is the President of Glapiński, who raises very large complexes with the Civic Platform. I'm not surprised. If I appointed President of Belka as President of the NBP, I would also have complexes, president of Polish helplessness. On the other hand, what the Civic Platform really has today's view of the anti-putin shield, the tax cuts, were the statements of the Committee on Public Finance, when it was actually convincing that there was no point in reducing VAT, there is no reason to reduce excise duty, because it only raises inflation. Of course, the empirical data for February shows that the VAT reduction and excise reduction bring inflation down, the results for February show it directly. Economists simply say that the anti-inflationary shield, anti-putinist, brings down annual inflation from 1.5 to 2 percentage points. On the other hand, the anti-putin shield in the issue of the Civic Platform is, as Mrs Leszczyna said, taking 500+, the VAT increase, as it was in 2011, and the President of Belka as President of the NBP. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u498	Thank you very much. In the procedure of correcting Mrs Izabela Leszczyn. One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u499	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! A lie in the performance of the PiS ministers in this speaker does not surprise anyone, but you have done so repeatedly and outrageously at the moment. If you're referring to my speech in a conversation with Piasecki's editor, then read it with understanding, listening and remembering. I said clearly that I am in favour of linking social benefits with economic growth, which is an increase in average wage, because if you want to fight poverty seriously, not propagandaly, as you do, it is only one way. The society is getting rich, there is growing prosperity, it has been happening in Poland for decades, so since everyone is making more and more money, it is impossible to leave social benefits at such a low level, but it must keep up with the welfare of the state. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what social policy does and learn it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u500	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Public Finances in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws (prints No 2295 and No 2316). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u501	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I present a report on a government draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws. The project is included in print No 2295. On 8 June, namely today, the Commission carried out its first reading of the project and then detailed work on the project resulting in the present report, contained in print No 2316. High Izbo! This draft implements Directive 2004/42/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 April 2004 on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds by the use of organic solvents in certain paints and varnishes and vehicle renewal products and amending Directive 1999/13/EC. In addition, it also implements Directive 2008/50/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 21 May 2008 on air quality and cleaner air for Europe, as well as Directive 2010/75/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council of 24 November 2010 on industrial emissions. In order to properly transpose Directive 2008/50/EC, the Law of 13 April 2012 introduced the division of the country into zones where air quality is assessed. It has also introduced key definitions to a regulated extent, e.g. the level of information, i.e. the concentration of a substance in the air above which there is a risk of human health or even short-term exposure to pollutants, which requires immediate appropriate information. This is the first example on the shore. It also introduced definitions such as the definition of a national target to reduce exposure to PM2,5 dust, exposure concentration ceiling, etc., etc. All that, so to speak, the legal content has already been introduced, and the provisions clarifying and introducing new regulations into the Polish legal order are contained in the article. 1 project. High Izbo! An additional issue is the need to change the definition of zones in which air quality is assessed, due to the possibility of Polish cities losing their city status over 100,000. residents as a result of the ageing population and relatively high mortality identified by the Central Statistical Office, resulting in a reduction in the population of cities below 100,000, and this is essential for the interpretation of the law. Examples can be the city of Legnica or the city of Kalisz, which so far had more than 100,000. residents and thus - in accordance with Article. 87. 2 point 2 of the Law of 27 April 2001 - Environmental law, which, after all, incorporated the provisions of the Directive in the implementation of these provisions, constituted zones where air quality is assessed. But since they've lost the city's status over 100,000. Inhabitants, things are getting complicated. It is therefore proposed to amend the definition of the zone with the repeal of the authorisation to issue an implementing act pursuant to Article. 87. 3 Act - Environmental law and the definition of zones where air quality is assessed, together with their names, codes and areas in the annex to the Act. This is the Annex, which is the amendment to Article 9. 1. High Izbo! The next issue that I am standardizing is the maximum expenditure limit. This maximum expenditure limit is specified e.g. in Article 4, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act of 13 April 2012 on amending the Act - Environmental Law stated that the costs of creating and maintaining 32 new air quality posts in 16 Marshal offices will be covered by the budgets of these units or with the support of the voivodships, while the costs of carrying out the tasks of the Chief Environmental Inspector, the Provincial Environmental Inspectors, the Ministry of Environment or local self-government units will be covered by the National Environmental Protection Fund and 16 Regional Environmental Funds. However, the Act of 13 April 2012 did not regulate the maximum expenditure of the public finance sector for the next 10 years, i.e. for the period 2022-2031. It is similar with the Act of 11 July 2014 amending the Act - Environmental Law and those limits I am talking about, for both of these laws are set out in Article. 4 and Article 4 5 of this draft law. 13 amendments proposed by the Legislative Office of the Sejm in agreement with the government were adopted during the detailed work on the project. The Commission has also adopted two amendments, with two new articles being added. After the numbering is ordered by the legislators, it is an article. Article 2 and Article 2 6. The first of these articles, that is, art. 2 refers to the Law of 25 August 2006 on a system for monitoring and controlling the quality of fuels. It's short, it's in the committee's report, so I'm not going to quote it. Clou of this change is to extend the period for reviewing the quality requirements for solid fuels from the current 2 years to 4 years. This change has no economic impact. Art. 6 refers to the Law on the greenhouse gas emissions trading scheme and amends Article. 141a of this bill. It follows from the activities of the European Commission, which in March of this year came to the conclusion that certain rules should be regulated and that this provision has been in force since 1 January of this year. As if, at the initiative of the European Commission or because we wish to agree our legislation with European rules in this way, we may not be very smooth and criticized, but we do need European law to do so. High Izbo! These amendments were adopted in the vote during the detailed work on the draft. Amendment adding Article. 2 was adopted by 13 votes in favour, 8 against and 2 abstentions. Amendment adding Article. 6 was adopted by 13 votes in favour, 8 against and 1 abstention. Further articles, Art. 8-13, contain transitional provisions. Art. 14 provides, in turn, that the law shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, with the exception of Article. Points 1, 2, 9, Art. 4 and Article 4 Article 8 and Article 8 9, which shall enter on the day following the date of publication and with the exception of Article. 5, which enters into force on 1 January 2024. The whole report of the committee was adopted by 13 votes in favour, with six votes against and three abstentions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry, I ask that the Government draft law amending the Environmental Law and certain other laws contained in the committee's report in print No 2316 be adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u502	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kazimierz Matuszny, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u503	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am pleased to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice in relation to the Act amending the Act - Environmental Law, print no. 2295. Madam Vice-President, Mrs Ania Paluch presented in detail the scope which this amendment covers. It could also be said that, apart from what is apparent from EU law and is a legal compulsion, it is also - as was noticeable in the discussion during the committee's work - such feedback: the government responds to signals from local governments as to what possible adjustments should be made. I think they were included in these changes. Thank you very much, Madam President, for the amendments that have been made. I think it's also sort of tidying up our environmental law. The debate - I see a colleague, Mrs Gabrysia - was substantive. There weren't too many topics that went beyond meritory, but the words of the opposition, which I'm going to allow myself not to mention, that the committee's decisions are about breaking the rules of the rule of law, and these kind of thought and legal structures... I would like to point out that it is not the legislators of the government or the Sejm who decide on the law in Poland, it is the parliament, and the institution for evaluating these decisions is a completely different institution. I do not think that this kind of message from the committee to society - doing what you want, because even in committee they break the law - is a good message. It's just out of the state. Anyway, the Law and Justice Club obviously strongly supports the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u504	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u505	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Allow me to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club regarding this bill. Ladies and gentlemen! As rarely happens, we have a government presentation. Twelve articles, but that's it. Impact assessment, consultation, and indeed. And what does that mean? It was supposed to be about clean air and the implementation of EU regulations, and it is not about clean air, nor about seeking this clean air for Poles, only about pure fiction. In fact, this bill isn't just pure fiction. That's a clean lie. It is both this draft, the amendments tabled and the report of the Vice-President of the committee on the committee's proceedings. Why? Ladies and gentlemen! 12 articles, of which empty article. One, from which we learn that the agglomeration is over 250,000. The population is such an agglomeration and will remain it and the city is more than 100,000. inhabitants, even though it is no longer a city of more than 100,000. Inhabitants, will remain a city over 100,000. Just so nothing changes in what we're changing. Another lie: this law is to implement the directives of the European Parliament. Nothing more vicious. She was supposed to be fixing the mess of the previous implementation of the three laws that were supposed to correct it. It's like this goat anecdote: first you bring in this goat, you make a bunk mess... All we had to do was listen to our proposals at the time of the adoption of these previous laws and there would be no problem of repairing this mess. Except this repair isn't there either. That's a lie too. We have another two articles that are supposed to fix it, and they are unconstitutional, as the Legislative Office says, because they are improving the laws that have already expired, have been consummated. The following paragraph introduces penalties, which are also non-constitutional, because they concern the consequences of local law. They are incompatible with the constitution and with the legislative technique. Plus, there's another... It's not enough that you don't bring those goats out, yet you're making an elephant into a huge mess in the form of these two amendments. Because these aren't any amendments, and they're supposed to be parliamentary, to be submitted to the government. They're not implementing any... They introduce a completely different legal matter from a completely different field. One concerns emissions trading. This is the amendment by the Member of the Commission entitled, if we consider, and with retroactive effect from 1 January, that the biomass that we have already burned is a renewable energy source, and we will not have to investigate it, it will be so. So if we establish that Saturday is on Sunday, this will happen as a result of such an amendment. I'm not talking about the fact that this way you can put anything in any bill. Besides, this is not an isolated practice. Another amendment states that this now concerns the Fuel Quality Act. Now we will no longer check this quality every 2 years, but every 4 years, although the next check is only due in 2 years and there is no question of the urgency of such records. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill doesn't do anything except make another bunk mess. Because we cannot accept a priori non-constitutional provisions, a bad legislative technique, which is still nothing. Doesn't solve, except for the fact that he's giving us another new mess, the Civic Coalition Club is against this project. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Voice from the room: Not a single substantive sentence.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u506	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u507	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour and pleasure to speak on behalf of the parliamentary club Left on printing no. 2295 containing a draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws. I do not want to focus on what can be changed in this project at the moment, because we know how arithmetic works, so I will focus on the substance of air quality in Poland. The Director knows very well, Mr Minister, that 2021 is the year in which we had worse air than in 2020, and this must be said to the Poles and Poles clearly. Unfortunately, the figures for the past year are very pessimistic. It must also be said that the Clean Air Programme has stood still. In 2018, you promised PLN 103 billion for the Clean Air Programme and the data of June 3rd this year. they say that payments are at 2900 million, or less than 3% in the middle of the implementation period of this programme. This is very disturbing. Today, ladies and gentlemen, 3 million farms are waiting to be replaced. It's the same as in 2018. Unfortunately, nothing positive happened here. Why am I talking about this? Because I would like to draw attention to what we can change together. Just put in place a few measures that will ensure that this winter does not cause us to have even worse, more polluted air than in 2021. Smoking coal, expensive gas and expensive wood can cause residents to reach for furniture, tires, PET bottles and this will heat their homes. What can you do? First of all, funding needs to be allocated to the Clean Air Programme, the 100 billion PLN missing. This can be done with government money and KPO. That's the first thing. The second issue is pre-financing of investments in RES and in thermo-, not refinancing. The residents turn to us with this - I am the head of the Parliamentary Antismog Team - that they wait a few, several months to return the money invested. With today's inflation, it's just profoundly unfair. I would also like - the inhabitants demand - that gas furnaces also be covered by these subsidies, so that investments can be made, for example in a heat pump or in photovoltaics. Since we've divided our vote into two people, I'm going to be finishing slowly, but I want to point out one more thing: that this level of funding is 90%. , and for the poorest - 99% so that investment in renewable energy sources can return in 7-10 years. Then there is a real chance that in 2027 we will have clean air in Poland. I therefore ask, Minister, Director, High Izbo, that these funds, the 100 billion zlotys you promised, will finally be mobilised. Finally, one more thing: it will also help to launch the Chmielnicka - Rzeszów 750 kV power line and supply to Poland very cheap electricity from the nuclear power plant in Ukraine. Then we would no longer have to import coal and gas from which we generate electricity in our power plants. The official position of the club will be submitted by Mr Jan Szopiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u508	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u509	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the current legal state, the air quality assessment shall be broken down into three zones and shall result in the assignment of each of the zones of an appropriate class for each of the pollutants assessed. These zones represent agglomerations with a population of more than 250 thousand, cities with a population of more than 100,000. and other areas of the voivodship not forming part of cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. and agglomerations. We welcome the proposed changes concerning the definition of the zone, which will make Poland independent from the demographic data of the CSO in the case of cities with about 100,000 or more. residents. We appreciate that 46 air quality assessment zones will be maintained in the country, i.e. 12 agglomerations with more than 250 000 inhabitants. and 18 cities, as it is today. The vote on the whole draft of this law is subject to the adoption by the government of proposals for possible changes which were proposed during the reading of the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u510	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u511	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! This novel of the law, which was presented as a rather obsessive development in the form of a project, is primarily related to the Clean Air programme, which is directly related to health. We know that this situation, when it comes to the state of Polish air, makes us notice in Poland somewhere within a year within the range of 50,000. people dying of air pollution. Numerous programmes have been introduced, including those related, among others. with the Stop programme or with other programmes that aim at electromobility, reducing emissions from transport, and not just from heating systems. But all of this is still insufficient. In my opinion, to determine whether the adjustment of expenditure limits in the form of targeted grants, expenditure on the environmental inspector, expenditure from the national fund and the voivodship funds for the next 10 years is something that should be accepted should be accepted. In my view, there's no need to criticize it. Secondly, this is also the implementation of the provisions contained in the directives mentioned here. There are three directives: on air quality, on emissions of volatile organic compounds and on industrial emissions. This change in the definition of zones in which air quality is assessed due to the loss of city status by some of the cities over 100,000, is not something that, so to speak, in any way revolutionizes the Polish situation. This is simply ordering, given that some of these cities have lost their status as a city over 100,000, and not necessarily because of demography, but also because people are building their homes outside cities and moving to this urban area. This is a movement that we observe not only in cities that have a status of 100 thousand, but also in larger ones. An example is the agglomerations of large cities that play the role of capitals, voivodship cities. Changes in the deadlines for the submission of periodic and final reports on the implementation of environmental programmes by the voivodship boards, which also affects local and district authorities, and the possible sanctions for failure to comply introduced here - that is what the Member representing the Civic Coalition Club pointed out. This is why there is some doubt: Is it necessary to introduce restrictions on possible delays on the part of these local authorities due to the local nature of these decisions? The fourth is the sealing of the air quality management system and the updating and the determination of responsibility for non-compliance with the restrictions laid down in the resolution of the Sejm. And the fifth issue that I pointed out was the amendment to the Act of 21 November 2008 on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and on the central registration of building emissions in connection with the Act amending the Act on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovations. The aim is to ensure that funds can be paid out, which is important possibly for future entities carrying out thermomodernisation and renovation tasks under agreements concluded between 2023 and 2024, and it is known that they will continue until 2028. This is a positive change that needs to be made. However, I would like to say that we should really pay more attention, among others. the development of photovoltaics. In a moment we will have regulations that will oblige us when it comes to, among other things. with new investments above 250 m On the other hand, if your marshal still permits, I believe that it is a matter of defining the issue of possible biogas, e.g. organic matter, and in particular this waste, sustainable biomass, would probably require regulation in another law, not in this one. These are the unfortunate coincidences in which even the right idea because of legislative technique and the principles of legislation should not be put into another law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u512	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u513	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit here a well-signed request from our circle to reject this project in its entirety, ladies and gentlemen, for very basic reasons, namely that we cannot... On the one hand, we burst out of laughter, because these litas of Eurocouche directives are funny, this implementation procedure is funny, which is probably taking 90% of the High House's work force. We're implementing. Funny is the name of the climate ministry itself, because it is like this poem, right, what the governor decides about the snow - such a pre-war poem. Sanitation realities, but resurrected by a group of reconstructions of historical sanation. This is all funny to us, and on the other hand it frightens us, because by implementing these standards, you raise the cost of life in Poland and therefore damage it. You create problems, you don't solve them. Thank you. My colleague, Dobromir Sosnierz, will continue. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u514	Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u515	Unfortunately, the original purpose of this law was overshadowed by the legislative actions of the PiS Members at the meeting of the Environment Committee. This is, unfortunately, another lesson of the fatal PiS legislative school, in which PiS Members place themselves in their own projects, their own government self-correcting projects, whose relationship with the submission is, to be mildly speaking, extremely debatable and based on loose associations of the type: here's something about the environment, we'll put something else about the environment. That's the principle we have here, for example. Those fuel improvements. Just without any public consultation, without an assessment of the effects of regulation and often without the required three readings, you add another de facto mini law to the bill that we are already adopting, to some God spirit of a guilty project, in which then it lies like a foreign body, like a splinter in your finger and worse legislators and lawyers. And what's that for? You've got most of it here. You guys can do whatever you want. What harm is it to do this once properly, according to art, without violating the constitution and political customs? Why does all this have to be so old-fashioned forever? Why do projects have to be processed in 3 days? Most of them aren't even urgent, and it's been lying there in the ministry for months or even years, and here it has to go for three days. When he comes to the Sejm on Monday, he leaves on Thursday. Why does it have to be like this? After all, during this term of office of the Sejm, we hear a request to shorten deadlines some times at each meeting. This shortening is already a rule, and normal proceding is an exception. I mean, it's time for something. Maybe it's just to avoid such legislation on a cap-paw, in which the result still needs to be improved, e.g. now in the case of these laws on Ukraine. After all, you as Members reduce yourselves to the role of puppets. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You didn't read those amendments because you got them at the committee meeting, Mrs. Paluch.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u516	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u517	After all, you voted for them without reading. They're gonna replace you with some blown puppets the president's gonna pump out at night and put in his drawer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u518	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Joanna Mucha, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u519	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 regarding the presentation of the government contained in the print no. 2295. Minister! After reading this law, we were even willing to vote in favour of it. True, on the one hand it seemed quite technical, on the other hand quite empty, as one of my previous speakers said, Mrs Gabriel Lenartowicz... [[Voice from the room: Privately: Gabrysia...]] Gabriela, Mr Gabrysia, not. Gabrielle. Privately, it's not appropriate from this speaker. So this bill really seemed a little chaotic, a little underdeveloped, as demonstrated by the legislative amendments in large numbers. On the other hand, after these amendments, which were accepted not by the committee, but by the PiS Members - let us be precise here - this law is not acceptable. Firstly, we have an amendment outside the thematic scope on emissions trading. It is not true that this meets the requirements of the European Commission. Absolutely not necessary, that is not true. [[You have to read with understanding.]] The second amendment concerns an extension from 2 to 4 years in terms of checking fuel quality. These are just amendments that make this bill worse. She was average, so-so, but now she's just not good for anything. As a matter of fact, today we talked about water quality in this room. We're talking about air quality right now. This air quality is dramaticly bad. People get sick and die, they live less because of our air quality. We are at the threshold of probably the worst heating season we can imagine from the point of view of air quality for a simple reason: it will be a season of dramatic growth in energy poverty, and energy poverty always translates into a deterioration in air quality. And instead of really dealing with any tools that could prevent what's going on, you're presenting something like a ladle dance, which is that we're doing a half step forward, three steps aside, and four steps backwards. This is irresponsible, because this is the reason why Poles are dying. People are dying because of the dramatic quality of the air. Unfortunately, if these amendments are accepted, we will not be able to vote in favour of this law. The state itself prepares these laws in such a way that you simply make it impossible to vote for them. Thank you. [[Member, you should have been on the committee.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u520	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. The first question is asked by Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left. Time - 1 minute. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u521	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In recent years, local governments have spent billions of zloty on air protection programmes. The state budget was also involved in these expenditures. We used to spend money on thermomodernization for the decommissioning of coal furnaces. We spent billions on redoing the miners and eliminating the mines. Today, in the face of an energy crisis, the government sends Poles to the woods for chrust. We are to disconnect our modern gas installations and heat houses collected in forests with wet branches. Didn't the government have control over the amount of coal imported from Russia? In line with Mr Suski's words, is Poland facing a shortage of natural gas supplies and, contrary to the guarantees, will we enter without supplies in the next heating season? I have a question and I will ask you in writing: What about the Clean Air Programme? What funds have been earmarked for the implementation of this programme this year, and what is the implementation of this programme in Poland? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u522	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u523	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Representatives of the Government! The National Reconstruction Plan, an annex to this plan, provides for clean air and energy efficiency to be the second objective of the reform to change the development of the Clean Air Priority Programme. I would like to ask just what these changes are supposed to be about, because they say that the updated Clean Air Programme is to be adopted by 31 March 2023. Similarly, the case concerning the termination of public support for investments in new coal heating installations by 31 December 2021 is, of course, beyond us. Hence, my question is, how can Clean Air Programme be supported by the National Plan for Reconstruction (Ring) measures? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u524	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u525	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As important as clean air is, we are all well aware of it. Hence my question. Is it possible that you plan a Clean Air or an alternative co-financing programme for people who own more than one apartment in a building without a separate perpetual book and want to eliminate the so-called. Cinderella... Are there plans to finance such investments for such owners? I would very much ask for a written reply on this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u526	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Please, sir, ask me a question. [[Member before me?]] [[I don't. Thank you.]] Mrs Chmiel resigned. [[I quit.]] The Member has resigned. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u527	Minister! Are you the Minister? There it is. Social distance no longer applies, Minister, please. I'd like to ask you about the amounts you tried to shove your knee into this bill, the issue amounts. After all, as a man of reason, you understand, Minister, that we cannot defend ourselves against the catastrophe that brings us to the scheme that every Pole will ultimately pay for breathing, leaving a carbon footprint. Did you, Minister, count this, taking this burden, how many years of operation do we have before us? After all, the heating and driving of Poland with windmills for grinding birds (The Bell), that is an obvious dream, isn't it? This will never come true, so are we really going to close coal mining in Poland instead of using it?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u528	Thank you. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u529	And will we really clean air by cleaning urban space from Poles?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u530	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Mishalski, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u531	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, Poles still breathe poisonous air. We are absolutely at the forefront of global air pollution. Unfortunately, this bill doesn't do anything. Moreover, the government's air pollution programme turned out to be a failure. We still have 2.5 million solid fuel furnaces to mention and only a few percent of this amount was still spent. More than that. Councillors of the Sejm in the Lesser Poland Voivodeship have attempted to retreat in the fight for clean air. The same thing happens in the Łódź Seymour. And the problem is serious because 45,000 die prematurely every year. persons due to air pollution. The effectiveness of the Polish programmes has also gone to the European Court of Human Rights, which unfortunately can end very well for us in terms of costs. Not much, the WHO has raised its standards after long studies and adopted new quality standards, and we are still in the back. So I would like to ask, firstly, what does the government plan to do to really take care of clean air, i.e. to make the Clean Air Programme work really (the bell) and secondly, does the government plan to include in its policy the recommendations of the WHO in terms of increasing standards and finally to start a real fight for the health of Poles? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u532	Thank you very much. Magdalena Łośko, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u533	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The project indicates cities that could lose their city status over 100,000. residents. The increasing mortality and the highest level of excess deaths in Poland are, of course, collecting their harvest, and at this point this is also indicated in the justification of the law. But the ZUS will also contribute to this by starving pensioners who spend their pensions, pensions, 13s, 14s for the cost of shops, for the increase in prices of fees, electricity and coal. Looking at empty pots and wallets, they can watch TV PiS for 2 billion PLN, listen to propaganda about economic miracle. [[Let's get to the point, Member. Please refer to the project.]] This project provides for monitoring of air quality. The question is whether you will monitor them as well as the health and quality of life of Poles and Poles. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u534	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u535	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! In recent days, we have moved some programmes on the implementation of waste water treatment, in recent weeks we have shifted the implementation of waste, and now we are moving on to clean air. It is known that in a country for such serious programs, there is not enough money, because there are huge billions of investment there. In part we can include Polish citizens, who e.g. They want to invest in photovoltaics, as we say on the occasion of clean air, but you have to give them a guarantee. As they encouraged Poles to build photovoltaic installations, they said: you will get 5,000. After two years or a year and a half, they said you'd get $3,000 because so many people wanted to do it, and now they said you wouldn't. Can't we give the Poles a guarantee, include them in one, the other or the third program and end one of them successfully? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u536	Thank you very much. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u537	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the current legal state, the air quality assessment shall be broken down into three zones and shall result in the assignment of each of the zones of the relevant class corresponding to each of the pollutants assessed. I would like information on whether the inhabitants of Kalisz, a city from my district listed in this Act, can feel safe when it comes to creating zones where air quality is assessed. I'm asking you this because it's one of the last cities that's been fighting over the ring road for decades, and yet another interpellation, conclusions, questions are colliding with the wall. As you can see, this term will also not bring any positive solutions. I assure you that the absence of a ring road in Kalisz has a huge impact on the environmental impact, on the massive intensity of traffic and on air quality, on the level of air pollution. Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u538	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u539	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am a Member from Silesia, in my region there are 17 out of 50 cities that have the worst air in the European Union. It's empirically tested. In 2017, and just before the elections, Law and Justice presented an epochal, spectacular, timeless document entitled Programme for Silesia. One part of it was about improving air quality in my region. I've recently gotten a report on the implementation of this program. After 5 years of implementation, despite the noisy value of projects of PLN 13.5 billion announced in 2017, after numerous corrections over the last 5 years, the announcements left only PLN 7 billion, already allocated PLN 4 billion, and after 5 years of implementation only PLN 1 billion was spent. Any of you guys remember what you said on the show? Or will you, as usual, remember this just before the next election? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u540	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Konrad Berkowicz, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u541	In Cracow, Mr Cracow, the largest smog is said to be the largest smog, and there is the largest life expectancy and the least respiratory diseases. I'm under consideration. I just heard politicians call it. The opposition wept over the inflation caused by distribution, and at the same time I hear that billions should be added to the Clean Air programme that the regulatory belt should be tightened even more. Don't you understand that these lockdowns, the distributions and all that, you've led us to a situation where we just can't afford things and we have to let go? You can't have a cookie and eat a cookie at the same time. I still have a question for Mrs Paluch, because we have learned from Mr Sosnierz that a lot of this law appeared at the last minute in the form of the so-called. Corrections. I have a question: What is it that you are ashamed that you do not want to show earlier what you have done? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Read the bill. He's available.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u542	Please, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u543	I have a question: How did it happen that when you adopted these criteria for cities above 100,000? You didn't predict that a city could fall below that 100,000. The residents? Either this criterion was unnecessary from the beginning and needed not to be determined, or needed for something, but why is it now being changed and disassembled? Why do you now expect that in matters much more risky, e.g. In terms of climate policy, can we go head-to-head in an empty pool? We're supposed to believe you predicted the consequences this time? I think it's extremely risky thinking. How come you didn't see this change necessary? Why didn't you immediately think (Applause) that there wouldn't be a criterion? I'm waiting for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u544	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u545	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to assure you that there is nothing in this law about financing the Clean Air Programme or about financing the improvement of air quality in general. It is written about the financing of officials, but only in such aspects that we move money from one budget bookmark and supply it from other sources with the same amounts, which is, as I said, incompatible with the constitution. I just wanted to ask you, when will you finally get on with the actual improvement in air quality? There's money, there's 270 billion euros from REPowerEU. You've written what you're about to accomplish in the Milestones and in the KPO, but somehow you can't get on with it. When are you really gonna take care of this and do what you have to do? If you cannot do this, in the previous term twice (the bell) was submitted a draft law by my author in this case, and now the same project is updated by the Senate. She's at your disposal. We did a job for you, maybe just reach for it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u546	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u547	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I have a question about the provisions regarding the implementation of EU directives, what was the opinion of Minister Szymański's office, because the office certainly gave an opinion on the draft law. That's one thing. Secondly, the issue of a sensitive air quality problem that is systematically deteriorating every year. It increases mortality. It's called $40,000. people died last year just because of bad air quality, because of smog. I've read Western expertise that says it's 60,000, or even more, in terms of the number of deaths just because of air quality. What's it like, really? Do you have any analysis in this regard? With regard to the resolutions of the regional governments, regions for reducing smog and improving air quality (The Bell), what action do you want to take in the absence of good fuels and high costs so that they can give some positive effect? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u548	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u549	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Each Polish citizen can learn what air quality is in Poland when entering the GIOŚ website. It's basically about the idea. But what's the truth? Some city dwellers have this data actually firsthand, because there are air quality measurement stations, and the rest are mostly based on the mathematical models you prepare. This law also applies to the possibility of correcting these findings arising from mathematical models. There is a rapidly growing city in Silesian voivodship, which has been sending applications for many years to the state to locate an air quality measurement station there so that residents no longer have to rely on the mathematical models prepared by you, only on real data. I would very much ask the Minister to respond in writing when the Czechowice-Heirs receive an air quality measurement station. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u550	Thank you, sir. I would ask you to ask Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition, the last question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u551	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will answer Mr Paluch's question as to why Mrs Paluch was ashamed to share with the Members her legislative contributions, which she did in the case of a total non-controversial law. [[I didn't authorize you to be my spokesperson.]] Because these legislative contributions were completely contrary to the principles of environmental protection, entirely outside the submission of this law, simply completely unlawful, in short. That's why she was ashamed to do it. I have a question. The May report of the Polish Smog Alert is really terrifying. The analysis shows that when it comes to controlling the quality of domestic fireplaces and the fuel burning in them, it is most affected by the fact that the municipality has a municipal or municipal guard. What does that mean in practice? This means that in municipalities without guards such a system practically does not exist, that in 8 out of 10 municipalities in Poland such a system does not exist. Are you aware of this problem? What are you doing to solve this problem? What are you doing to make the Clean Air program not just exist on paper, but to give us really clean air? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u552	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Minister Edward Siarka, to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u553	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Thank you very much for your discussion and your questions. I'll try to answer some of those questions. But at the very beginning, I would like to say that contrary to what you have said here, acting on behalf of the clubs or as part of the discussion, the government project on environmental law, which we have postponed today, is not supposed to be a revolutionary project or a project that de facto solves all air protection problems in Poland. After all, in the case of this government project from the very beginning, we are talking about the fact that, above all, it is aimed at, among others. organizing certain things and giving us instruments that will allow us to achieve what has been developed over the last two years, especially at local government level, and what has been developed in the so-called. zones within the framework of the implementation of the air protection programme have not been devalued. The point is that really the existing regulations have designated zones - let me remind you that these zones we have in Poland 46 - and according to the provisions concerning air quality testing in these zones these tests are taking place. The 2010 Act decided - not now, not the current government decided, but the previous government in 2010. - that this is based on the CSO data on the population in the zones concerned. Based on the GUS data, it caused that at a time when the population was below 100,000, e.g. in the case of towns such as Legnica and Kalisz, we were in a difficult situation at the end of 2021. Besides, there was a very wide discussion in the press, and it also raised the environmental environment that something should be done about it so that there is no such situation that all the work that has been done so far will lose its validity, because these cities will lose their status as a zone. Therefore, it is important that there is no risk that voivodship authorities need to prepare new air protection programmes for these zones, which is why. There's a change. This is the first subway. The second reason was also raised by local authorities. You often argue that at the expense of local governments, some programmes are being implemented. In this project we decide that local governments are to receive funding for monitoring air quality in these zones and in individual voivodships. Namely, they will receive dedicated money from the state budget for carrying out these tasks - two jobs per voivodship. The point is that 32 jobs will be devoted to these tasks. And this is the way out to meet the expectations of local governments. And you say we don't see these needs. In other words, in the course of the consultation on this project, the local government was very positive about these solutions. I'm going to move on right now to a thing that I think is crucial, although it's like it's different from the discussion on this project, but it's coming up in connection with the elements of the discussion on the fight for clean air. I could, ladies and gentlemen, answer many of the questions asked here very politically. If we want to fight for clean air, then, ladies and gentlemen, please. do not engage in activities that are currently blocking us from implementing the National Reconstruction Plan - KPO. In this program, among others. We've got more than 40% saved. funds for these activities related to the conversion of our electricity and heating systems. The resources we have there, I'll let me tell you at this point as well. Namely, in the National Reconstruction Plan, we have guaranteed funds for the implementation of the programme, you can say, clean air - EUR 3200 million, i.e. over PLN 14 billion. E.g. These funds, as stated in the KPO, will be enough for us to implement, an exchange of 800,000. Cinderella and, as I recall, 300 modernization of the boiler room in 300 schools. That's how we enumerated it in the program. The FENIKS programme also provides for a very large amount of funding for the implementation of air protection tasks. This is EUR 2100 million of funds that can be directed towards the implementation of very popular programmes in Poland, such as photovoltaics, heat pumps, the necessary thermomodernization, etc. We have a new program, a whole new one that was launched this year - this is my heat. I wanted to draw attention to this because it is aimed primarily at young people, who are growing up, who decide to build new apartments. There hasn't been a show like this before. And they can also benefit from the programme implemented by the National Environmental Fund. 600 million PLN is secured for this program - it is secured in KPO. In addition, measures for wind energy are secured. What we talk about very often in this Chamber: EUR 3200 million is secured in KPO, funds for transmission networks, i.e. 300 million euros. Thanks to this, it will be possible to rebuild approx. 400 km of energy networks. This is necessary if we really want to develop further energy related to renewable energy sources, because networks are the barrier that does not allow us to fully develop this programme. And finally in KPO we have a very large hydrogen program, i.e. EUR 800 million for production, storage, the use of hydrogen in energy activities. So there are a lot of these programs, and I think they're going to allow us to transform in a short time, but it's also a process. I don't know why we often try to think about the air protection program in such a way that we're going to make some kind of revolution here. No, this is a program that we have to carry out in an evolutionary way. One program can be implemented faster, another a little longer, but it all takes time. However, we consistently strive to exchange heat sources. And indeed, our heating needs a lot of measures to really implement them in the 21st century. As regards the replacement of furnaces, if we were to talk about numbers, I will inform you that to date it has been implemented under all these programmes by the national environmental fund mentioned about 450,000. Cinderella. But the road ahead, I agree, is long, because in fact in this record that is now affecting the climate ministry, we still have a lot of traditional furnaces that need to be replaced. Mr Szopiński has allowed himself to return to the subject that has recently become the subject of memes. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I was nowhere in my speech - I said this at the committee meeting - I did not use and I never used the phrase that here we are in the heat industry to use the dust. I didn't use such a phrase anywhere, I didn't give any such interviews, but after all, interesting memes were created and I became, so to speak, the person who achieved the greatest reach on the Internet, on social media. Even though I didn't say that. At this point, however, it is worth to say that the State Forests have launched an additional pool of firewood, these are log residues that allow the inhabitants of rural areas to benefit from our resources. I repeat once again: from our resources, green and renewable, because that is the case for wood, and so is the European Commission today treating this wood raw material. So, once again, we've started a pool like this and it's up to grab. These measures - and that is what I want to say very clearly - are also anti-inflationary measures. It is also important that the State Forests carry out such a pro-social activity, which is that this raw material is available. And we hope that in Poland at the moment we probably have about 2 million different types of heat sources, which are fired by wood in different forms. As far as programmes are concerned, which are being implemented by the National Environmental Fund, which is to carry them out further, environmental programmes and air protection, I must say that there are further actions planned here and there will be major changes in this respect. The details, of course, at this point in time I am unable to say, because we do not have time to discuss this in detail, but I think that this may be the subject of a meeting of the Environment Committee, because a number of actions of the National Environmental Fund are envisaged here. Mr Adamczyk asked about the issue which, I ask you, is quite obvious in these programmes. Well, if you'll excuse me, the question of ownership is obvious. If anyone wants to use public funds, they have to have property. If the question of ownership is not explained, if it is not clear who owns the property, then we cannot grant funding, give public funds to carry out some tasks. It is quite obvious, especially in many places, e.g. In multi-family buildings, this funding can reach 220 thousand. zł. We're talking big money. Mr Braun then asked about the issue of coal. In the implementation of all these programmes - Mr President, please bear in mind that we also have a document such as the energy policy of the state by 2040. - even if we are talking about some restrictions on the use of minerals, coal is still foreseen as the raw material that we will use. In how much and how much it is, it is a completely different matter, but nevertheless we will use coal as our own resources. I hope that after the current debate in the European Parliament, which rejected a number of provisions on the Fit for package 55, it may turn out that we can really observe the very large return of this fossil, which is carbon. But like I said, we need to actually use this coal, because I think we all have the heart to burn it in an efficient way so that we don't have to deal with smog. Regarding photovoltaic installations - Mr Dyduch asked - I must say that they are extremely popular in Poland. Against a European background here we are unique leaders. From what I remember from the data, 600 MW of power from photovoltaics is increasing in Poland per month. These programs - I would say today that even whether they are funded or not - are very, very popular among our residents. This is very important. Mr Grammar. I would like to say that, as far as Silesia is concerned, so far under environmental programmes, 670 million air protection has been spent on various projects. Mr Siekierski. At the moment, we see that the antismog resolutions adopted by the voivodship are very ambitious in many places. It may turn out that this competence, which was transferred by the government to local governments, will have to be discussed in many places by regional governments. There are various problems that arise (the bell) also from deadlines, but I do not want to get involved in these topics, on this subject, in the broader discussion. This is the competence, as I said, of local governments. The last question was about measuring stations. I would like to say that if we are talking about measuring stations, no matter where, where and where they would be located, they must always meet the criteria of representativeness in accordance with EU directives. That's it. Thank you very much, Marshal. For the rest of the questions, as you asked, the Ministry will answer in writing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u554	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Anna Paluch, rapporteur of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u555	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have listened patiently to all the club speeches and, of course, to your Members' questions. One point that comes up is a delicate request - stick to the facts, ladies and gentlemen. On 19 May, the project discussed today entered the Marshal's staff, on 25 May was addressed to the environmental committee, and on 8 June is a report of the committee - fortunately 3 weeks, and we heard here about 3 days and a rapid procession. Where are the facts? Ladies and gentlemen! We've heard here a phillip, regrets about air quality, how many people are sick, how many deaths we have, how heavy and cumbersome it is. On the other hand, you are announcing a vote against the law, which is aimed primarily at providing funding in the next 10 years for those tasks which result from the air quality management and evaluation system for which the local government is responsible, including in particular the preparation of air protection programmes and short-term action programmes. These are tasks adopted by means of resolutions of the Sejm and form the basis for actions aimed at improving air quality. In order to take these measures, 32 jobs must be maintained in 16 marshal offices. Until now, it has been done with the money of local government units, now it will be financed by the government. Another issue is the conduct of PM2.5 air quality measurements by the Chief Environmental Protection Supervisor. Here again is the issue of establishing sources of funding for tasks, these commissioned local government administration in the field of government, from the government budget of the voivodship government to the funds of the state budget, the funds of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management and 16 regional environmental and water funds, which for years the local authorities have been asking for. And you, friends of the Civic Platform government, are saying that you will vote against this bill. This is 10 years of continuity - for concern about air condition. Another issue, ladies and gentlemen, is the financing in the years 2024-2033 of the tasks of the Environmental Protection and Trade Inspection Inspection and the Main Building Supervision Authority related to the measurement of volatile organic compounds in certain paints and varnishes. It's about that directive I was talking about in my first speech. Member States, the next objective of this amendment is to maintain the continuity of the air quality assessment and management system by changing the definition of the air quality assessment zones. After all, if in Kalisz or another city that was 100 thousand... I kindly inform Members of the Civic Platform that we are continuing the actions that two terms of office of this time began by the government authorized by you. We don't say that what the Platform did is wrong, and that we condemn it in the champ. We continue the tasks we consider appropriate. [[What do you mean, no? What about the apartment program?]] Please listen calmly. I listened very quietly to you. [[Tell me the truth.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, if there are air quality programmes in Kalisz, what happens if this zone is eliminated by this definition? The continuity of certain air protection measures must be maintained. It's obvious. We want to continue with the air protection measures taken two terms ago when the air protection rules were implemented. After all, as a result of these actions, all citizens will be given access to current information. I was talking about the level of information. If the concentration of certain substances is dangerous, even short-term exposure to these substances will result in negative effects. A citizen has the right to fast information to protect himself. All these activities - we detail this, seal the system, stabilize financing - are designed to protect the air and protect citizens from exposure to harmful substances. After all, the aim of these actions is to achieve adequate air quality standards as soon as possible, to reduce the time spent exposing citizens to over-normative concentrations of substances and to improve the health and comfort of the lives of our residents. Ladies and gentlemen! It's a matter of amendment. I have not authorized any of the Members to be my spokesperson and to say whether I am ashamed or ashamed of the amendments I have tabled. I am convinced that the amendments were good and correct. Amendment, which is added to the current Article. 6, concerned the addition to the draft law of a provision under which an amendment was proposed which implements Commission Implementing Regulation (EU) 2022388, note 8 March 2022. Is it my fault or my fault of the Polish government that the European Commission woke up on 8 March this year and amended Regulation 2066 of 2018 on monitoring and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions under one of Parliament's directives? The regulation provides for the possibility of extending by 2023 the obligation to demonstrate sustainability criteria and reduce greenhouse gas emissions for biofuels, bioliquids and biomass fuels used for combustion, which will be the same as assuming that the combustion of biomass fuels, bioliquids and biofuels reported under the ETS in 2022 will be considered zero-emission. This is for the benefit of all biofuel producers. Why don't we do it? Because you don't like it? Because there are formal charges? It was the European Commission who overslept. She could have done it before. So, ladies and gentlemen, consider whether you necessarily want to be against it. I would like to stress once again that the amendment of the provisions of the Act - Environmental law and these other laws is necessary in order to ensure stable financing of the performance of key tasks in terms of improving air quality in Poland, and that of tasks carried out by local authorities. You, friends of the local government, what do you declare on every occasion, will you vote against this bill? Think about it. These tasks consist in preparing air protection programmes, short-term action plans, updating, monitoring their implementation, checking progress. Any attempt to delay the work on this bill or to object to the adoption of these solutions is... The result will be obvious: lack of resources, mainly for local government, to carry out air protection tasks. Then consider it calmly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u556	Thank you, Member. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u557	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The annex to the draft law, which defines the zones in which air quality is assessed, and their names, codes and areas, states that the city of Bielsko-Biała is an independent zone, whereas the districts: Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywiecki belong to the Silesian zone. Apart from the fact that some of the lands of Bielska-Biała and the designated districts are located in Małopolska, and calling them the Silesian zone proves the indifference of the authors of this legal act, please explain why it was decided to separate these administrative units in different zones. I would like to point out that the municipalities located on the above mentioned. The area is the Beskidzka agglomeration and the actions undertaken under the various programmes must cover the entire area in order to be properly evaluated. Separation is therefore detrimental to the effectiveness of instruments aimed at improving air quality. I ask you kindly to reply in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u558	In the discussion, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. I propose that the Sejm proceed to the third reading without referring the project back to the committee. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Report of the Rules of Procedure Committee on Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity on the application of the private prosecutor Hubert Dominik Massalski, represented by the legal adviser Michał Niemirowicz-Szczytta of 31 July 2019 for the consent of the Sejm to the criminal liability of Paweł Jack Lisiecki (print No 2285). I would like to ask Mr Piotr Uruski to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u559	Dear Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report from the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary Affairs and Immunity Committee on the application of the private prosecutor Hubert Dominik Massalski, represented by the legal adviser Michał Niemirowicz-Szczytta of 31 July 2019 to allow the Sejm to hold Paweł Lisiecki criminally liable. Marshal of the Sejm VIII term of office pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. 1b of the Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator addressed on 19 September 2019 the above request to the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee for consideration. The Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee, after examining this request at its meeting on 24 May 2022 pursuant to Article. 7c paragraph. The 5th Act on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and the Senator proposes to reject the application of the private prosecutor Hubert Dominik Massalski of 31 July 2019 for the Sejm's consent to the criminal liability of Paweł Lisiecki. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u560	Thank you very much, sir. Let me remind you that the Sejm according to the article. Article 133 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall examine the committee's report by listening only to the rapporteur. The Member concerned shall also have the right to speak. This report shall not be discussed. We will proceed to the vote in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 8 June this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to come forward? [[Yes, Urszula Zielińska.]] You're welcome. I'm closing the list. Mr Tomasz Zieliński will be the first to speak. Please, three minutes to make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u561	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 5 June this year, on the 30th anniversary of the overthrow of the first government elected by the Sejm in free elections, a monument was unveiled in Tomaszów Lubelski. Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. This monument was located next to the newly created roundabout. Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. Jan Olszewski is a person known to every adult Pole. He has been involved in social activities since childhood. He was a member of the Scouts, Grey Privates, a participant in the Warsaw Uprising. After the war, he worked as a journalist and then dedicated himself to the Palestro. He was one of the greatest lawyers of our time. He was tirelessly defending opposition activists repressed by the communist authorities. He represented families in political trials. As an anti-communist opposition activist, he was a co-founder of the Workers' Defence Committee. He had great merits in creating NSZZ ¿Solidarity, and then as Prime Minister of the Polish Government, he sought thorough internal reforms, purification of political life and Poland's accession to the North Atlantic Pact. Member of the Sejm of the three term of office, advisor to President Lech Kaczyński, bachelor of the Order of the White Eagle. It is very exciting that the initiative to name the new roundabout appeared among the inhabitants of Tomaszów. This idea, raised by vice-stars Jarosław Roots, resulted in the establishment of a resolution initiative committee, which I had the privilege of directing. The Committee prepared an appropriate draft resolution of the City Council, very quickly received the support of more than a thousand inhabitants and consequently the City Council adopted a resolution on 25 February 2022, giving the roundabout at the intersection of Żwirka and Wigura, Ordynacka and Sports Avenue the name: roundabout im. Prime Minister Jan Olszewski. Along with this decision came another initiative aimed at further honoring Jan Olszewski through the construction of a monument, bust of the former Prime Minister. At this point I would like to thank all those who contributed to this monument. I thank investors, the Modernity Association and Tradition led by the President of Krzysztof Nagowska, tomaszowski's old-fashioned Henryk Karwan. Thank you for supporting the construction of Robert Gut, former representative of Jan Olszewski, and a large group of residents of the city. I thank the performers of bust, the Lublin artists Maria and Piotr Prussia, and for preparing the postumn to Jan, Sabina, Paweł Pastuszkom, the Yozef stonemasons. I have a deep hope that before this beautiful monument some people will have to look deep into the prime minister's eyes and read the inscription: Whose will Poland be?, in the spirit will also ask themselves: How much have I done to make Poland Polish? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u562	Thank you, sir. Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u563	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The changes that took place after 1989 have raised a number of questions about how to effectively prepare society for informed and active participation in socio-economic and political life. At that time attempts began to define, properly redefining the place in society to the beautiful folk universities at that time. Support for reconstruction of folk universities was provided by the team under the leadership of Prof. Piotr Gliński, the Law and Justice electoral programme presented in Katowice in 2015. The planned government support has resulted in the consolidation of existing folk universities. In March 2016, a nationwide network of folk universities was established in the Tower as an association. It has been very actively involved in the preparation and implementation of a government support programme for folk universities, being an active and very demanding social partner. On 18 June 2020, the Council of Ministers adopted a new programme to support the development of civil society called the Programme to support the development of folk universities for the period 2020-2030. Its main goal is to develop adult education in the form of grundtvigian folk universities. The programme's budget amounts to over PLN 9 million each year for the competitions in four priorities. The programme results in support for existing and created universities and among others. nationwide conference announced on 10 June this year. It is an initiative of the nationwide network of folk universities and the National Institute of Freedom under the honorary patronage of Marshal Elizabeth Witek Mon. ¿People's universities facing the challenges of modern times. The conference will be accompanied by the opening of the exhibition Mon. School for life. It is an exhibition showing folk universities in Polish lands throughout history. Come to the conference. I invite you to build civil society together actively. I invite you to support ideas and works of folk universities. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u564	Thank you, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u565	Dear Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! So-called. the register has entered into force. Hell of women continue. First, PiS introduced almost a complete ban on abortion, but it was not enough, because women, half of Poles, almost stopped giving birth because of fear of repressive law. A demographic disaster is a fact. The difference between the number of deaths and the number of births scares the hell out of you. In 2021, nearly 200,000 died. more people than was born. PiS wants to get women to give birth in the only way they know how to do it, which is by reprisals, specifically by registering everyone's pregnancy. In each country, the collection of patient health data could make some sense, but in Poland, the collection of sensitive data about women and their pregnancy frightens, especially since the prosecutor's office will have access to them, the police with the permission of the court. On the other hand, there is no record of persons with spinal diseases or access to these data by the prosecution. You may ask: Why should pregnancy be recorded instead of orthopedic diseases? Women have every right to be afraid. Why would the D.A. need information about their pregnancy? Is the government going to investigate when the baby isn't born? Or if a pregnant woman wants to go abroad, will a police officer infiltrate her for what purpose? Such a risk will not improve women's confidence in public institutions. And more kids aren't gonna be born. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u566	Thank you, Member. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u567	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The times that take place before our eyes, especially in the context of the cruelty of the Russian-Ukrainian war, drive us into astonishment and horror. We are amazed that such atrocity, dehumanization and animalization continue, despite the experience of the Hecatomba of World War II and subsequent wars, among others. in Afghanistan, Montenegro, Serbia, Congo, Benin, are possible. This forces us to ask about the condition of the human race, about its carelessness, or perhaps about determination to self-destruction, about everything that separates us from other beings. I leave this question to be decided by each of us individually. However, at that time, in the context of the Russian-Ukrainian war, I return with my memories to the first months of 1945, until the time after Silesia was occupied by Red Army soldiers who got to the Polish and Czech women, regardless of their age, to give in to uncontrollable scouts, I apologize for the return, raping whatever happens. In this time and place, many consecrated sisters did not abandon their charism, bringing the good news, comfort and real help to those to whom they were sent. Uh-huh. Maria Magdalena Paschalis and her nine companions: Julian Kubitzki's sisters, Rosaria Schilling, Klara Schramm, Anna Jadwiga Thiennei, Marta Rybka, Lucia Hermann, Jadwiga, Agnieszka Topfer, Anna Elmerer, Helena Goldberg were killed by beasts in Red Army uniforms, deprived of the veneration of the womanly innocence offered to God, treated as dolls to be used repeatedly in collective acts, cruel and soulless rapes. In silent suffering they approached the wounds of Christ, giving up their innocent lives, because they refused to abandon their subjects, to renounce their faith, to endure in their integrity after all. In the coming days, the beatification will take place in Wrocław. I invite you, Lower Silesians, I invite you, Poles. Gremially go to temples, wherever there are traces of heroic Elizabethans and Polish women. Let's boil them, it's the time of the holy women.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u568	Thank you. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u569	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the Monetary Policy Council has raised interest rates, the reference rate to 6%. This for the average family means fees higher by PLN 150-200. This is the result of this government's policy, because the reasons for this inflation are only partially objective. Most of these issues are due to the failure of this government, which he did when he protected the banks. Last year, the President of the National Bank of Poland, Mr.Glapiński, argued that there would be no inflation. Poles believed it - 460 thousand. Since then, people have taken mortgages on apartments They have believed, and now they feel deceived, because everything that President Glapiński said turned out to be wrong. They are forced to sell unfinished buildings, apartments and houses. And what did the Prime Minister of our government do at that time? For PLN 4.6 million of his money he bought inflation-indexed bonds. Now he's making a fortune on rising inflation. Prime Minister, it is a pity that you did not share this feeling about the upcoming inflation with Poles, they would probably also buy bonds instead of apartments for loans that they are not able to pay back now. Prime Minister, you were able to take care of your money, but you don't care about Poles' money anymore? Who's the Prime Minister of Government? It is a shame that Poland has seen such a thing. Well, the banker should instead force the banks to raise the deposit rate, which is our savings, and issue bonds at inflation rates. Although these two actions would be very helpful, but no, banks are primarily protected because our prime minister is a former banker. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u570	Thank you, Member. Please, Mrs Claudia Jachira, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u571	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Government television showed only a fragment of Ursula von der Leyen's statement on the approval of the KPO, but did not mention Poland's fulfilment of the necessary conditions for this money to flow to us. I wonder if the TV editors were afraid of the president's entire speech. That is why I must ask Prime Minister Kaczyński what further plans you have. On the one hand, you are bragging that KPO has been approved and on the other hand, you are laughing at the Union on Saturday at your PiS Convention. So what's your goal: money or values? Is it a herb or a union? You promised the president that you would put something in there, and then you would chase judges under other signs and destroy the rule of law in Poland. She hasn't left us yet, and you're already laughing at her that she's so naive that she can be easily lied to, and the money's gonna swim anyway. You're acting like immature kids who are glad they cheated the teacher. And others are applauding you for it. You forget that this is not about little things, but about 57 billion euros that can be spent for the benefit of the country or can be drowned, just like those billions spent on Ostrołęka. You've been given the Union's trust, and you mustn't waste it. Millions of Poles and Poles worked on this loan, who for 30 years introduced democracy and a free market to Poland, built international alliances guaranteeing our safety and recently adopted millions of refugees from Ukraine. Laughing at the Union, you laugh at those who have paid their lives for living in a free European country. You're in the same row with Putin's partners. Is that what this is about? Who are you kidding about the rule of law? Union? No, you're fooling yourselves. Every dictatorship has its end. What's left of you? A handful of party oligarchs and a poor society? Hyperinflation? Poisoned environment and the biggest public debt in the history of the Polish state for a thousand years? Do you really want your governments to be remembered like this? No? Then stop fooling the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u572	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u573	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the Minister of Infrastructure Andrzej Adamczyk very warmly for providing money for the renovation of the bridge on Dunajec in Ostrow in the Tarnów district. The bridge in Ostrów was built in 1971. It was designed and served for local traffic as a connection between Tarnów and municipalities from the western part of the county, but later began to play a different role. At the same time, with the opening of the section of the Kraków-Tarnów motorway and the junction in Wierzchosławice, the motorway link with the new bridge was also to be established. But that did not happen. At the last minute, the project was cut off by this link. The traffic of cars, including trucks, was flown by the unfit road through the municipality of Wierzchosławice and the district bridge in Ostrów. The technical condition of the increasingly heavy bridge in Ostrów despite the systematic renovation work carried out was getting worse. In order to ensure the safety of users, the district Old Town in Tarnów commissioned expert expertise. The last two made in 2019 left no doubt - the crossing had to be closed and shut off from traffic and pedestrians, because safety was at risk. You couldn't risk people's lives. The county council decided to completely renovate it, because it was the fastest way. The construction of a new bridge would require many permits, including environmental ones. We were looking for different sources of financing for the investment, because its cost exceeded the financial possibilities of the Tarnów district. Here the Polish government came with help. To the first stage of the work consisting of stripping the old bridge, strengthening the pillars and translating over the sewer crossing from the municipality of Wierzchosławice, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki transferred PLN 4 million from the reserve of the state budget. The cost of this project amounted to PLN 7 million. The contract after the tender for the second stage of the works amounted to nearly 28 million PLN. The government financed this project with nearly PLN 19 million, and the money came from the Government Road Development Fund. A new stable construction has already been erected. On Friday 3 June, the traffic on the bridge in Ostrow was resumed. Troublesome detours for many inhabitants of the district of Tarnów ended, who had to overwhelm many kilometers to reach, for example. To work in Tarnów. I thank the Prime Minister and the Minister for their financial support once again on behalf of himself and the local government of Tarnów County and the inhabitants of Tarnów Region. Welcome to the ceremonial opening of the renovated bridge on 18 June. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u574	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u575	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Fuel prices in Poland are already so high that at the very thought of fuelling most people have chills, unless half of the family works in companies of the Treasury, and the parcels from the curia fall into the property for free, like the premiere's wife. The United Right, of course, has a permanent explanation: the Union, Putin, the opposition, the bad West are guilty. They're all guilty, but they're certainly not in charge. Let's do the math. A barrel of oil costs about $120. About the same cost in 2011-2014. Fuel today costs in Poland 8 PLN for 1 l, yet, because Orlen pylons are already ready for at least 10 PLN for 1 l. Between 2011 and 2014, the average price for 1 l of petrol ranged between 4 PLN and 5 PLN. We have a 100 percent increase in the price of fuel at the same price of raw material and without taking into account excise duty and VAT. The myth that PiS, the Glapiński hawk and Prince Obajtek are not responsible for fuel prices has fallen. On TVPiS they'll tell you that Germans pay a lot for fuel too. Facts? For the average German payout buys 1300 l of fuel, the Pole - only 600 l. Złotówka is today a garbage currency. Oil bought for dollars is the most expensive in history. Glapiński can include in his portfolio ruining the value of gold. It was possible to enter the euro area and avoid this situation, but PiS was victorious in threatening the other Greece. Last week Croatia officially adopted the euro and will apply it from 1 January 2023. What's your true attitude toward people? It's like PiS, which is contempt and sting. This was checked by the post office director in Pacanów, where PiS won 65% support and Andrzej Duda - more than 70% support. She had the courage to tell the minister there's nothing to live for. She almost lost her job. The minister only wanted to fire her because she told the truth. Internship from Belarus. Minister Cieślak has been reprimanded only because the election campaign is already underway, the cycle for the party, the sun of the nation - Kaczyński the most important. It is said that there will be a resignation - okay, but we are still waiting for 22 resignations from other ministers who have led Poland to poverty and have sent people to the forests for the national picking of roughs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u576	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u577	There's something left over from one of the previous speakers. To the archives, Your Marshal. God bless you! Good evening, fellow countrymen, late listeners to this debate. There's no place in this tribune, in this public space, here in the Seym and outside, to record the level of public life's perplexity. This level is constantly and systematically raised not only through current manipulations in the main sewer media, in media controlled by a group currently holding power, controlled or dependent on total opposition, but also through direct censor, prosecutor and police interference, by harassing publicists and scholars. And I'd like to dictate here a list of cases, examples that prove that this is no longer a joke. In the last few days, she's gone after Professor Stanisław Bielenia. The Death Star, of course. In the vanguard, the gadget press, the student informers. What is it? It is about the words of a scholar, a student, a university teacher who deviates from the political correctness dictated by the increase in war. I do not know in detail whether defined as skeptical or defined as not sufficiently enthusiastic about what dominates in the main sewer about our eastern neighbours, about the Russian-Ukrainian war, cause that it is already conducted from the top, from the rector's proceedings in this case. You are Professor Andrzej Zapalowski, Rzeszów, Podkarpacie. There's a notice to the D.A., ladies and gentlemen, filed by, as I hear, the rector of the university. Mr. Wojciech Olszański, Mr. Marcin Osadowski has left the prison walls in recent days, weeks, in some time interval. They were shot there for politically incorrect speeches, but the speeches, ladies and gentlemen, not for the hors d'oeuvres. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Jacek Miedlar, whose court - again another story, other content, other topics - has already punished unfortunately legally, in the second instance, again for speeches, publications.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u578	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u579	etc., etc. Different topics: whether Ukrainians or Jews, or whatever, which political correctness does not foresee. Today, however, there are repressions in Poland - this is no longer a routine harassment on the part of, as I said, the gadget press, or the Polish gasses, or Gazeta Wyborcza - prosecutors, police and judicial. We've got arrests, we've got political prisoners. And this unfortunately happens with full, seems, approval of the ruling elite, either from the current government arrangement or from their perceived opponents. To be continued. Thank you, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u580	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Monica Falej, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u581	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The decision of the Minister of Health of PiS extended the catalogue of data of the Medical Information System, among others. information on allergy, blood type, contraception and pregnancy. It is this last group of information that is controversial and disturbing. The Minister of Health explains that the proposed solutions will make it easier for doctors, and I quote: data collection is intended only to exchange information between healthcare professionals undertaking treatment for a particular patient. However, the General Medical Chamber notes that the register is a tool and its use depends on intent. Exactly, the question is about intent. If you are given medicines or certain diagnostic procedures, e. g. RTG, in civilized countries, it is always assumed that a woman is potentially pregnant and, if necessary, a pregnancy test is carried out, so this information is not necessary for a doctor. No entry in the register shall constitute a security. A woman may be pregnant recently, she may not even know it, so the pregnancy register in a state ruled by the extreme right, which fights women, strengthens abortion law, will always arouse anxiety, will always arouse fear. This is another restriction of reproductive rights of Poles. There is therefore a suspicion that it is not about safety, but about repression and prosecution of those women who miscarriage, either spontaneously or by abortion abroad. Are they facing a prosecutor, a trial, a prison? Technically, no, but theoretically. It is trying to reassure us that the register of pregnancy does not really change much, for the Penal Code does not contain criminal liability for breaking up its own pregnancy. It doesn't at the moment. As soon as the right hand wants to change this record, the register will become the best tool in the hands of the power to hunt a witch. The Polish people will be under surveillance, repressed. Then you'll really be scared. And I'm thinking, instead of registering, I suggest we keep a record of paedophiles in dresses -- with the name and address of the parish, to which, after the crime was discovered, the superiors moved the perpetrator. For inspection for information purposes only. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u582	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u583	Thank you, Marshal. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The result of World War II was not only the death of millions of people, the destruction of homes and industrial facilities. The result was also the loss of cultural goods - motionless and mobile. Many monuments have been destroyed, many are still outside the original destination. The recovery of lost works is not a simple act. It's a very tedious process. During the war many valuable monuments were evacuated from Gdansk. Among them from the church of Mariacki Gothic altar of the Trinity of the Holy Brotherhood of St. George. After 1945, he found his new place in Berlin. After a few decades, this precious work returned to the Basilica of Mariacka. This was due to the decision of the authorities of the Evangelical Church in Germany. Some may ask what the evangelicals had to say about this. I'll explain. After Martin Luther's speech, the church of Mary remained under the authority of Protestants for 400 years to become Catholic again in 1945. Talking about the return of the altar by representatives of German evangelicals and Catholics from Poland for legal and political reasons was not easy, but the finale is successful. It should also be noted that these events took place without the involvement of government factors. Good, 'cause they'd be more complicated. The words of recognition for patience and the ability to agree belong to both churches. Soon Catholics and evangelicals, Poles and Germany will be able to celebrate together the return to the Basilica of Mariacka in Gdańsk a unique work of art. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u584	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Left. Thank you, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u585	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! My statement concerns the omission of public authorities in support of the energy transformation process of brown coal miners in the horse's region. Desperate miners write to the President of the Council of Ministers: In view of the lack of support by the authorities in the energy transition process in the horse region and the resulting thousands of redundancies We, trade union workers from mining and energy unions of the ZE PAK Capital Group, ask you directly to intervene and urgently process a civil project to amend the law on bridge pensions for brown coal miners and energy workers working in the brown coal sector. It is about granting the same rights that have been granted to coal miners in Silesia for 20 years. Energy transformation in Poland is happening here and now. The inevitable consequence is the elimination of jobs created earlier. Only in a decade have almost 5,000 gone. employees. Today, the capital group decided in April to announce that it accelerates the plans and termination of all coal boilers by the end of 2024. In view of the above, it will also accelerate the dismissal of employees of this group. The funds from the Fair Transformation Fund, which was to support regions such as Wielkopolska East in the energy transition, have not been mobilised all the time. Also the Modernization Fund with funds from the sale of CO allowances Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to ask the Prime Minister and his services and the relevant ministers to address the real problems of energy transformation in the horse region. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u586	Thank you, sir. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u587	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is about Prime Minister Jan Olszewski on the 30th anniversary of the collapse of his Council of Ministers. Jan Olszewski's government started building an independent Polish state. That is what Minister Antoni Macierewicz said in one of his interviews recently, and it is difficult to disagree with him. The elimination of Russian agents or the establishment of cooperation with NATO are only some of the achievements of this democratic government. It is important to stress these merits with all determination today, when we see how much Poland's security depends on its presence in the North Atlantic Alliance. Sweden, Finland and even Japan, in the face of the Russian invasion of Ukraine, want to join NATO as soon as possible. These decisions are made hurriedly, fearing another Russian attack. In this respect we were very lucky and honoured that Jan Olszewski was the prime minister. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u588	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u589	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The soft fruit harvest season has begun, and I'm thinking about strawberries right now. I don't know, you're probably not familiar with the information that the price of strawberry baskets taken from pliers is between PLN 9-10, it's 2 kg and not collected - between PLN 6-7 at the cost of collection, which is paid to employees from PLN 2 to PLN 3 per basket. So at these prices it is difficult to talk about the cost-effectiveness of production and until one asks the question where is this famous concern, holding company, a food group that was supposed to support farmers in terms of market interventions. I know it's hard that this product -- it's about strawberries -- it's a very sensitive product, but farmers are waiting for help. It is essential if we want to ensure continuity of production in the coming years. The second problem I want to address is inflation, cost-effective, increase in the cost of living. This affects many Polish families, it is a subject very often raised at our meetings. It must be made clear that there is a lack of strategy for combating inflation, i.e. the work of the Monetary Policy Council as regards monetary policy, as well as the government's actions and fiscal policies of the country. Today we have another increase in interest rates, which have been raised by the Monetary Policy Council. The question of scale, of course. The first, this signaling growth in the fall was too late. I do not want to talk about other mistakes made by the President of the National Bank of Poland. To sum up, there is no link between the monetary policy of the Monetary Policy Council and the fiscal policy of the government. While successive anti-inflationary shields partially reduce VAT on fuel and this has some effect in the short term, it has some protective effect, but in the longer term these are less revenue for the budget, which (the bell) increases the deficit. So that it would be worth asking about matters related to expenditure that are outside the budget, outside the Sejm's control or about the problems of the National Reconstruction Plan, but this may be the next time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u590	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u591	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Tomorrow, the European Parliament will vote on the motion for a resolution on the European Commission's decision to finance the Polish National Plan for Reconstruction, despite Poland's failure to fulfil the condition that can be defined briefly and decisively - being a state of law. Here is an important part of this motion for a resolution: the European Parliament is clearly concerned about the Commission's positive assessment of the National Reconstruction Plan submitted by Poland. Taking into account the existing and ongoing breaches by Poland of the values recorded in Article. 2 of the Treaty on European Union, including the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary, the European Parliament recalls that the existence of such infringements has been duly documented in a number of judicial decisions, assessments and positions of the institutions of the European Union, including this resolution and the ongoing proceedings against Poland pursuant to Article. 7 of the Treaty on European Union. Parliament recalls that compliance with the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and of the European Court of Human Rights and respect for the primacy of European Union law are not subject to negotiation and cannot be treated as a tender card. Parliament regrets that the Polish National Reconstruction Plan does not provide for the immediate return of all illegally suspended judges to their previous positions, and calls on the Polish Government to speed up this process and the Commission to monitor it. Parliament condemns the current treatment of certain judges who have subsequently been transferred to another department or forced to leave after their return to judgment. Parliament urges the Council to approve the Polish recovery plan only if it is fully in line with the requirements of the Fund for Reconstruction Regulation and, in particular, with the requirement to protect the financial interests of all European Union countries against fraud. The European Parliament recalls that cooperation based on mutual respect and mutual trust between Member States, the European Union and their authorities cannot function without respect for the rule of law. I hope that this resolution will be adopted tomorrow in the European Parliament, the Polish rule of law - finally restored, and the funds from the Polish reconstruction plan will go where they should go from the beginning - to people, not to corrupt harlots. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u592	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u593	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! June 14th is the World Blood Provider's Day. In this regard, I pay my thanks and appreciation to all those who support honorary blood donation and share something invaluable to those in need - their own blood that saves lives.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u594	Barkovice - Why Not? Polish archival resources have been severely depleted by the last war. Some major cities, such as the Piotrków, have lost most of the sources of their history. A paradox is that sometimes there are documents proving the history of smaller or quite small towns, confirming their centuries of roots. In the Main Archive of the Old Acts in Warsaw there is a parchment document issued by the law firm of the Duke of Kraków and Lęczycki Konrad I, stating the designation by the bailiff of borders between the area of the Cistercian monastery in Sulejów and the Norbertan monastery in Witów for the village of Barkowice. It follows that this existing village will soon be celebrating the 800th anniversary of its existence. However, the remains of the settlements found nearby indicate that people lived in that area 1800 years ago. Those Barkowice from 800 years ago lay on the banks of Pilica, one of the most beautiful Polish rivers. Today's, still situated by the water, are situated on Lake Sulejowski and have become a tourist centre visited by the inhabitants of Piotrków and Łódź. They were built in the late '60s and early '70s. The previous century's artificial reservoir changed the landscape of the area of Barkowice. The flood was built with a view to supplying water nearby Łódź, but next to it it became a local mecca for sailors and water sports. Barkowice Mokre lies today in the municipality of Sulejów, which has many problems. The biggest problem is the S12 road. The road between Sulejov and Piotrkow is called the road of death by the inhabitants. This situation requires immediate regulation. This road would be an opportunity for Barkowice to communicate better with the world. Wet Barkovice - such an ordinary village, and 800 years of history...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u595	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few days ago, the prosecution referred to the court an indictment against the PiS nominate, the former director of the Drawing Film Studio in Bielsko-Biała Tomasz M., accusing him of harming the unit he was directing, at several hundred thousand zlotys. Earlier, the studio staff showed great vigilance and informed me of their suspicions, for which I thank them very much. However, it turned out that this party nominate had previously been punished for a serious crime. The fact that Tomasz M. was president of one of the companies of the State Treasury before he was nominated as director of the studio seems to be crazy in this situation. Turns out the PiS is nominateing high-ranking criminals. I therefore ask Prime Minister Morawiecki for information: How many convicted criminals were nominated by the PiS government in 2015-2022 for positions in entities and companies subordinate to the government?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u596	Representatives of uniformed pensioners who took up work after the end of the service and joined the service before 2 January 1999 pay attention to the unfair legal regulations in force in Poland, resulting in unequal treatment of them in the benefits carried out by the Social Insurance Institution. In accordance with the rules in force, social contributions to the Social Security Office are paid from the whole group to the Social Security Office, as are all employees. However, after the completion of the work, the ZUS refuses to pay the accumulated capital. He grants his pension and then suspends his payment on the basis of Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 of the pension law, the provision of which states that the uniforms who started the service before 2 January 1999 are entitled to only one benefit, higher or indicated by them. Officers who wore a uniform after 2 January 1999 in accordance with Article. OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 671. 2 Laws on pensions from the FUS have the right to two benefits if they have taken up a civilian job after the end of the service. The pensions of ZUS pensioners who have taken up work after retirement are systematically re-valorised. Such a situation excludes from the possibility of obtaining a second large pension - several tens of thousands - a group of uniformed pensioners who entered the service before 2 January 1999. In the opinion of those pensioners who have obtained the right to a second pension and are not paid it is a gross social injustice, especially in view of the fact that the contributions to the Social Security Office were and are being paid out and the pension capital is collected in the accounts. In view of the above, I have addressed the question to Minister Marlena Maląg on this point and ask her to answer the following question: How does the Minister of the Family and Social Policy refer to the inequality in the treatment of unicorns described in the interpellation in the Polish law, and is the Minister planning to initiate a legislative procedure aimed at eliminating these inequalities?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-08-sejm-56-1.u597	I'm ordering a recess until tomorrow, i.e. until 9 June 2022, until 9 p.m. 9. Thank you. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 21 min 45]]
