ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u1	Resume session. I would like to call on Mr Marta Kubiak, Mr Mateusz Bochenk, Mr Konrad Frysztak and Mr Paweł Rychlik to be the secretaries of today's proceedings. The first part of the session will be Mr Mateusz Bochenek and Mr Konrad Frysztak. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Marta Kubiak and Mateusz Bochenek. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u2	I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Agriculture and Rural Development - hour 9, - Communication with Poles abroad - hour. 10, - Local Government and Regional Policy - h.m. 10, - Administration and Home Affairs - hour. 11, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 11, - Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation - h.m. 11, - Culture and Media - hour 11, - Justice and Human Rights at 10 p.m. 11.30, - Protection of the environment, natural resources and forestry - h.m. 12, - to the European Union, at 3 p.m. 12.30, - Foreign Affairs - hour 14, - Energy, Climate and State Assets - immediately after the end of the votes. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - Parliamentary Group for: Development of the Cement Industry in Poland - hour 10, - Parliamentary Group for: Marijuana legalization - hour 12, - Parliamentary Team of Members and Sympathists of the Light-Life Movement and Catholic Action - hour. 15.45. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u3	Thank you very much. The Committee on Culture and Media submitted a report on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising, print no 2227. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm should agree to shorten the time limit referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, and in the discussion on this item, he listened to five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 6 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the time limit for answering an additional question. Okay, let's get to the first question. Members of Urszula Zielińska, Tadeusz Aziewicz, Małgorzata Tracz and many other members of the Civic Coalition raise the question about the implementation of the sixth sanction package, including the implementation of the Russian oil embargo, related plans, etc. The answer will be given under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment. Ms Urszula Zielińska asks the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u4	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 30 March this year, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced that in April he would present the most ambitious plan for the de-russification of hydrocarbons in Europe and speeding up the development of RES, but the Prime Minister did not present this plan to this day. Instead, the government rejected the amendment, which I proposed on behalf of the Greens, on behalf of the Civic Coalition, to the so-called. a sanctioning act, an amendment which, at the end of this year, introduced an embargo on a broad catalogue of fuels imported from Russia, including oil. To this fact, the wide stream of many Russian fuels imported to Poland was also pointed out by former Minister of Economy in the Government of Law and Justice, President of PGNiG Mr Piotr Woźniak, speaking yesterday in an interview for one of the televisions about the fact that we are constantly focusing on oil and Poland is buying finished fuel produced in Russia and Belarus. So, Prime Minister, Minister, what does this most ambitious derussification plan really look like in practice? Or are you simply misleading us once again? If not, please tell us when we will see the presentation and implementation of this most ambitious hydrocarbon de-russification plan in Europe. When will Poland implement the sixth package of sanctions against Russia, including the embargo on Russian oil and other fuels imports? Are the billboards written by Blood, i.e. Blood oil, which the Prime Minister scares all around, but not his own fuel companies, also appeared in Hungary and Slovakia? How do you intend to secure fuel demand and security in Poland? What kind of contracts do we negotiate? When will you present your plan to accelerate the development of RES? Because we're looking for these laws, and they're still gone. And finally, what other fuels, apart from oil, are we buying in Russia and Belarus? Prime Minister! Let me remind you: the blood of murdered civilians and soldiers fighting for Ukraine flows through the pipeline. [[♪ The bell ♪]] These are your words from February. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u5	Thank you, ma'am. Responsible under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Mr Piotr Dziadzio. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, A lot of questions, difficult questions, because you know we're actually in a state of crisis. The situation is very difficult, but the Republic is prepared, in general I will say, to be safe in terms of fuels as well as energy raw materials. We have repeatedly stressed that we are ready to impose sanctions. These sanctions are prepared, but they must be correlated with the sanctions of the European Union, otherwise we are unable to implement them. We press, the government of the Republic of Poland is pressing very hard all EU countries that have doubts about what direction To really go with sanctions. It is our actions that are the first actions that have shown that these sanctions are necessary for the European Union as a whole. As far as preparations are concerned, I must tell you about the following issues. There are two areas and we should consider them, these two areas, in the context of the sanctions that the Government of the Republic introduces and prepares for these sanctions. So we are also waiting for sanctions that are currently being discussed in the European Commission and we are correlation them with each other. As far as our internal plans are concerned, we are prepared to move away from oil at the end of this year from the fuels that are imported from Russia as well as from the raw material of oil. We're prepared for this. Naftoport and Naftoport-related investments allow us to take enough oil and fuel from other directions and maintain energy security. At the same time, we have intervention stocks in the country that we are able to release in a crisis situation. These intervention stocks are for about 90 days, so we are not introducing any issues related to danger or lack of fuel on the market. We're safe in this area. I also wanted to say a very important thing to you. Since 2015, we have been preparing for such a negative scenario and, thanks to the fact that we have anticipated certain actions, we have been ready in the first place to abandon the natural gas delivered from the eastern direction. The fact is, this gas doesn't flow from the east. So? We have no danger. All gas users have it. So this is the direction you should see. These are actions that are implemented on an ongoing basis. We were prepared to leave the gas from the eastern direction on 1 January 2023, it happened earlier, on 27 April this year, not by our will, but by the Russian will. Gas goes to all the customers, right? I understand we don't have a problem with that. Has this gas been cut off? No, we've got gas. We have contracts, we have gas contracts. Second thing. We are able, as far as fuel and oil are concerned, to abandon the eastern direction immediately. The gasport will take the right amount of fuel, the right amount of raw material to replace the raw material that flows, in colloquially speaking, with a pipe from the East. We are working intensively to optimize these supply windows to Naftoport to maximize the entire cargo space and secure the possibility of processing this raw material that will come from other directions. Refineries are adapted to other types of oil than the oil we're talking about, which is Russian oil. So we're able to go from day to day to day, technologically, we're prepared for this. These are the most important things. As regards the package I am talking about, the EU package, which will deal with the total ban on imports of Russian oil, petroleum products, oil-like products or petroleum-based products, is to be banned by the end of the year, except that this sanction package we are talking about, package six, will have a transitional period of 6 months. For the record, I wanted to explain to you why this is a problem. Because the European Union has imported more than 113 million tons of oil and more than 46 million tons of petroleum products and Poland only 14 million tons of oil. That's why we're ready to replace them. And so are you. I said, the potential of the Naftoport, which has been expanded, is large - 36 million t, we are able to take so much and rewrite. This is more (the bell) than the needs of our refinery. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u7	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Mr Tadeusz Aziewicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am sadly looking at the destruction of the Lotus Group, the pearl of our economy and an important element of the country's energy security system. It is currently being dismantled and sold key assets. I would like to draw attention to the sale of more than 400 petrol stations to the Hungarian MOL controlled by Viktor Orbán, who is called the Hungarian liaison or Trojan horse Putin. Orbán's disloyalty to the Western community during the war in Ukraine is already obvious. There is a real threat that other assets of the disassembled group may also be transferred to Russian-controlled entities, creating strategic hubs for expansion on the European market. This was mentioned recently by Piotr Wozniak, former minister in your government. My question is: Why not stop this toxic process in the name of the Polish state of affairs, energy security of the country and responsibility for public property? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u9	Thank you. Mr Piotr Dziadzio again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! Dear Members, As a result of the introduction, I would like to tell you that the process of consolidation of Polish oil and gas companies, which includes the merger of Orlen and Lotus, is at a very advanced stage at the moment. The consolidation of these companies is in the assessment of experts, not only our own, national, but also other, external, deeply justified. This transformation, because we are talking about it, will enable the building of a multi-energy, strong Polish fuel and gas entity, which is to increase - and we assume that this will be the case - energy security of Poland. That's the key element. This is intended to increase the energy security of Poland. The combination of Orlen and Lotus is a decision that will help the domestic market to develop these activities. This will also create an area that will allow this entity to have much more opportunity to enter into contracts, much more power in European markets. At the same time, it will be a much larger entity to carry out the State's tasks in the field of fuel safety, because this is a key element. Analyses, which are conducted by completely independent institutions, say, for example, that the peak oil demand or fuel demand will be approx. This Regulation This will allow us to prepare for this. So we will have a strong entity that will have a high capacity both for processing and for the distribution of fuels not only in our country but also throughout the European Union. Such a strong multi-energy entity will also guarantee energy transformation. As far as energy transformation is concerned, we expect that it will ultimately cost around EUR 200 billion. So without such a strong entity that will carry out the tasks, it will be difficult for us to survive this difficult time of energy transformation. What else did I want to say to you in this regard? Such a trend of mergers is a trend known in the European Union and has been noticeable for more than 20 years (the Bell), so it is nothing new and nothing strange for us. [[It's sold out...]] He's not sold out, he'll be controlled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u11	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. MEPs Filip Kaczyński, Agnieszka Soin, Andrzej Szlachta, Elżbieta Duda, Wiesław Krajewski, Jacek Osuch and Adam Sněžek address the question to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy on the financing of road infrastructure in south-eastern Poland. Mr Filip Kaczyński will be the first to ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u12	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Poland is a logistics hub in connection with the war in Ukraine, which of course makes us, as leaders of aid, proud, but at the same time presents us with a number of new challenges. Due to significant traffic related, among others. with the humanitarian aid provided, I ask the Minister to provide information on the financing of road infrastructure in south-eastern Poland from European Union funds, which could help us in the challenges brought by the war in Ukraine. The question is all the more justified, that on the 78th day of the Russian invasion of Ukraine we see that this conflict will unfortunately not end very quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Puda, Minister of Funds and Regional Policy, replies. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u14	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Thank you very much for this question. In fact, Poland is now a role of a certain hub, which is directly related to what is happening outside our country's borders. But it is also worth saying that Poland is investing, investing and investing in the areas that you are talking about. I am talking about the areas of south-eastern Poland. Today's geopolitical situation shows that all the investments we have made, made and will be made are very effective when it comes to fulfilling the logistical role of our country. This role is very important and certainly the capacity of these road networks is increasing. Our biggest investments, i.e. S17 roads, S19 and sections of the A4 motorway, show that at the moment these corridors, which were financed from the perspective of 2007-2013, later in the continuation of 2014-2020, led to the fact that this part of our country is very well connected with the rest of the country, and this also causes that all those who get to this part of Poland or to the other side travel from another part of Poland to Ukraine, have the opportunity to get through these road sections efficiently. Thanks to the European Funds, this has been possible and it is still possible to support road investment in two financial perspectives. The support received eight road projects, which were located in the south-eastern part of Poland and which constitute direct sections of the Via Carpatia route, which is beneficial, and it is worth highlighting here, for social and economic development not only of Poland, but of the whole Central and Eastern Europe, and in the context Poland, of course, especially for the macro-region of Eastern Poland directly adjacent to Ukraine. It is worth noting that European Union funding is worth PLN 3.3 billion. A total of 173.5 km of S19 road was reached. From the total value of the entire project more than PLN 6 billion was also realized a number of investments, a number of EU projects which allow the connection on the express road route Warsaw - Lublin - Piaski. As part of the construction and modernisation of roads on this section, a total of 180 km of express road was built from European Union funds. The total value of these projects, the construction of the S17 road, which were financed from the European Union, amounts to more than PLN 8 billion, and the funding alone amounts to more than 4.5 billion. It is also worth noting that the completion of the conversion of S17, S19 lines to the parameters of the expressway are priorities for the coming years. It's already happening. You know very well that travel time is shrinking. Not only is it shorter when it comes to time itself, but it is also more safe to travel. All of this, you can say, has been financed by the European funds programme in the PO IiŚ, and in the future we want to implement it from the European Funds to Infrastructure, Climate, Environment, and, in general, from the FENIKS programme, and the Connecting Europe Facility. Within the framework of this programme, FENIKS is planned to finance the European Union's express road on the stretch of Sand - Hrebenne, the section of the express road Piaski - Dorohusk and 10 km of the section S19 Rzeszów - Babica, which forms part of the large international route Via Carpatia. The estimated and all eligible costs of this investment amount to more than PLN 5.5 billion. In total, this means that it will be possible to obtain funding in the amount of more than PLN 4.5 billion. For these projects, it is planned to apply for EU funds under the new financial perspective under the Connecting Europe Facility, the next instrument that can be used, which can finance this large investment in January this year. Poland, in agreement with Slovakia, submitted to the European Commission a new proposal for funding the project. The main goal of the Polish part of the project is to design and build an express road on the section Piast Place - Barwinek, i.e. to the state border, with a total length of almost 30 km. On the other hand, the entire project will also include actions aimed at improving the safety of traffic on the Via Carpatia route through installation, e.g. equipment for speed measurement or construction of a tunnel on the S19 expressway, section Rzeszów - Babica, or installation of stationary cameras located throughout the whole section of the S19 express road Białystok - Barwinek, in particular Rzeszów - Barwinek. The total cost of this project, including the cost of the Polish part of the project, is EUR 495 million, bearing in mind the maximum possible level of CEF funding of 85% As you remember. The support for this project could amount to EUR 421 million. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u15	Thank you. An additional question is asked by Agnieszka Soin, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u16	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear Minister, I would like to ask for detailed information on the road projects that have been implemented in south-eastern Poland using the European Union funds, and what are the plans for the coming years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Puda again corresponds to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u18	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! If we were to focus on all the projects, I think the marshal would have some doubts about the temporal possibilities. I would like to focus here on the most important projects that actually brought something to the area that you are asking about. Maybe I'll start with the A4 motorway. Construction of the A4 motorway Kraków - Tarnów, section Sharów - Cross, the second section is the construction of the Kraków - Tarnów motorway, section of the Cross - Rzeszów East, and the construction of the highway A4 Rzeszów - Korczowa. The last of these sections was put into motion in 2016. But then there was the S19 expressway. Here, from the resources of PO IiŚ two perspectives received EU support from eight projects, i.e. Construction of the S19 expressway on individual sections: Stobierna - Rzeszów, Międzyrzec Podlaski - Lubartów, Lublin - Rzeszów, Lublin - Sławinek, Lublin - Rzeszów, Sokołów section, and Lublin - Rzeszów section, Lublin Węglin section - Kraśnik South. I think that's detailed enough. More specifically, of course, if you have questions, we will answer in writing. Here we have information about the construction of the expressway, e.g. Lublin - Rzeszów on the section Kraśnik Pódnie i Lasy Janowskie, S19 Lublin - Rzeszów, section Lasy Janowskie - Low South, or Rzeszów, section Low South - Sokołów Małopolska North. All of these episodes, except for the second task that I mentioned, between the Big Door and the North Kraśnik, were financed and put into motion at the moment. As far as the S17 road is concerned, the infrastructure and environment of the Operational Programme has been connected to the Warsaw - Lublin - Piaski route. Five projects were funded. All sections, except the turn node, have also been put into service. As part of the express flow S17 has been construction of the Tomaszów Lubelski ring road with a length of less than 10 km - 9.6 km. The closure is planned for 2022. Within the framework of the FENIKS, this new perspective, it is planned to apply for funding of the following investments - that is what the Member said - the section of the expressway Sand - Hrebenne, estimated cost in our opinion is over 2.7 billion, the section of the express road Sand - Dorohusk, the estimated cost qualified in the project is over 1.4 billion and the section of the road Rzeszów - Babica, the estimated cost qualified in this project is over 1.5 billion. Within the framework of the Connecting Europe Facility, the evaluation of applications for funding by the European Commission is currently underway for the construction of the express road at the Piast Place - Barwinek section. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We hope that these four tasks can be quickly assessed and carried out quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u19	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Members Adam Szłapka, Paweł Kowal, Marek Krzakala, Tomasz Lenz, Sławomir Nitras, Grzegorz Schetyn, Małgorzata Tracz, Robert Tyszkiewicz and Katarzyna Lubnauer from the Civic Coalition are asking the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the activities of the Russian Federation ambassador. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Kowal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u20	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are dealing with an absolutely extraordinary situation. Because the ambassador of the Russian Federation in Poland for years, instead of serving diplomatic rations, hooligans in Warsaw, blames Poland for the start of World War II, contradicts Russian crimes in Ukraine. Recently, Russia, which it represents, has destroyed a place important for Polish heritage and Polish memory in the war cemetery in Kharkov. Russian officials threatened to destroy the war cemetery in Katyn. The ambassador in his next interviews provokes the authorities, provokes society, provokes reaction, seeks strife. At the same time, Poland provides security for him, because it has to be done anyway. What is the point of maintaining this situation during the war? What are the real channels of communication that allow us the ambassador of the Russian Federation in Warsaw? Is the government taking any real action against his subsequent statements and actions by the Russian Federation, especially the Russian Federation's actions against places of Polish memory in Ukraine? Does the government pass on... How many times has the ambassador of the Russian Federation been called to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to hear that each of these things I have said arouses the highest uproar of Polish public opinion, the Polish political class, Polish intellectual elites and undermines the memory of the Polish role in the history of Central and Eastern Europe and the great Poles? How many times has Ambassador Andreyev been called to the Polish Ministry of Foreign Affairs to hear this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Isn't it time to tell him that his place is in Moscow, and today his presence in Warsaw doesn't serve anything good? It serves only further destruction of Polish-Russian relations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u21	Thank you, sir. Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, answers. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We all know that at our eastern borders we have a war caused by the Russian Federation, by its aggression against Ukraine. At that time Poland alongside the United States became the main supporting country in various fields, in different dimensions of Ukraine. Therefore, we are the object of a number of propaganda attacks, disinformation attacks, but also actions of a provocative nature, actions aimed at hindering the activities of Polish diplomatic and consular representations in Russia. To make matters worse, in view of this determination, the Russian Federation has no prospect of changing the approach of the Russian authorities in the near future. Despite this, the Republic of Poland, like all other Member States of the European Union, the North Atlantic Alliance, maintains diplomatic and consular relations with the Russian Federation. In both countries, ambassadors function as a result, consulates operate. The activities of these structures are not only symbolic but also practical. On the other hand, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs constantly analyses possible steps, including with regard to the presence of the Russian Federation embassy in Poland. Let us remember, however, that there is a principle of reciprocity in diplomacy in this regard. So all our actions meet with the right response from the other side. But it also works the other way when such actions are taken by representatives of the Russian Federation. However, given the long-term impact of such decisions and for the sake of action taken and their effectiveness, these issues will be communicated, as is the case in diplomacy, post-factum rather than pre-emptively. At the same time, of course, we listen to all the voices and opinions on this subject. I would like to draw your attention to the fact that especially for us, for Poland, the presence of Polish diplomats and consular services in Russia is important. Regardless of the difficult situation at the moment, they take care of Polish citizens temporarily residing in the territory of the Russian Federation or of people of Polish origin who have e.g. A Pole's card. If we deprived Poles of this care, they would be left to themselves. Yes, the possibilities for action in this area are currently limited, but as far as possible, the Polish consular services seek to provide care for our fellow countrymen in the territory of the Russian Federation. As regards the activities of Ambassador Andreyev, first of all I draw attention to the fact that he is a representative of the Russian Federation. Your ambassador's behavior is what the Russian Federation's policy is. He follows orders from Moscow. It implements the principles of Russian foreign policy. As a result, of course, the majority of his activities, which he also mentioned, should be treated in terms of provocation. Mr. Ambassador has recently, in recent months, been repeatedly called to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to explain his actions, his statements, his behaviours, which were thus received by the Polish authorities and the Polish public opinion. Let us remember one thing: what country, such ambassador. If the ambassador behaves this way, he shall issue a certificate to the State he represents. If we are talking about the ambassador of the Russian Federation and the behaviour of Russian soldiers in Ukraine, I think there is a kind of similarity here. Of course, let's keep all the proportions. If there's provocation, there's provocation here. This does not, of course, change the fact that the 9th of May incident should not have taken place. Minister Rau has repeatedly and unambiguously stated that diplomats are subject to special protection and that the host country should provide it. I draw attention to the last aspect. In March this year, in agreement with our allies, we expelled 45 Russian diplomats. A month later, the Russian Federation, applying the principle of reciprocity, which I mentioned earlier, expelled 45 Polish representatives from the territory of the Russian Federation. I stress: further steps must be taken in agreement with our allies. Their taking will be communicated, and I will stress this once again, as is usually the case in diplomacy, or post factum. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u23	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Katarzyna Lubnauer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u24	I'll be honest with you, sir, I'm absolutely not convinced by the Minister. I would like to ask, first of all, whether you know another ambassador in another country of the European Union, who behaves like Ambassador Andreyev and provokes so much both in his words and in his behaviour. It's about the situations we've been dealing with lately. You say you've been called many times. We asked for specific information, how many times he was called, in which cases, or anything helps the fact that he is in Poland. It seems obvious that in the current situation, when we observe Russia's aggression on Ukraine and what is happening in Poland - I mean the consequences of the arrival of refugees in Poland - it is very important to show that we do not accept this situation. As a result, lowering the rank of ambassador to the position of chargé d-affaires... If you say that it is the functioning of the Polish embassy in Moscow, there is no obstacle to its functioning (the bell) without an ambassador. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u25	Thank you. Mr Piotr Wawrzyk again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u26	I was not counting on you, Madame, to convince you because it is difficult to convince someone who has an opinion and does not accept arguments. The point is simply to do what is usually done in diplomacy, not make decisions like this under impulse. This must be done coldly and in agreement with our allies. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u27	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. MEPs Krzysztof Gawkowski, Paulina Matysiak, Wiesław Szczepański, Rafał Adamczyk and many others from the Left Club address the question to the Minister of Infrastructure on the strike in Polregio. The first question is asked by Mrs Paulina Matysiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u28	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have some questions about the upcoming strike in Polregio announced on 16 May, which is next Monday. What do the conversations look like? Is there even a chance of an agreement? Questions to the Minister are so legitimate that you are currently a mediator - the media report - you are taking part in conversations between the social side, employees and the Marshals of the voivodships. I also, of course, have a few more questions. What action is the Industrial Development Agency, the main shareholder of Polregio, taking or planning to take? Does the agency just leave it in the hands of the regional marshals? There are other questions, of course, Minister. Why does Polregio need more subsidies than local carriers? Do Industry Development Agency and Marshals have an idea to drive more? I'll give you an example from my voivodship. The Łódź Agglomeration Railway increases the number of kilometers each year without raising the level of subsidies. Polregio drives more expensive, and there is no money for increases for employees. Of course, Polregio employees' wage demands are justified. Pay needs to be raised, all employees need support. We also discussed this at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee. These demands are completely understandable, but I have a question: What is the situation now? It's Thursday, the announced strike is due in a few days. Will Polregio train stop all over Poland? Here it is worth to add that every day, 1900 Polregio trains leave every day on the tracks, which carry almost 250,000 trains. passengers. Is there gonna be paralysis on the railroad or isn't there gonna be paralysis? Can the Minister give us any information about what this situation looks like and what to expect in a few days? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Bittel, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u30	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! (PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and Dear Members, At first I wanted to say that our country is based on respect for freedom and justice, on the cooperation of the authorities in social dialogue and on the principle of subsidiarity, which strengthens the powers of citizens and their communities. In particular, this principle confers independence on local authorities vis-à-vis central authorities. Also in the context of this principle there is a division of responsibility related to collective transport by rail. This principle, this division of responsibility, seems to be the responsibility of the voivodship for regional transport, and the organizer is the Marshal of the voivodship. The Minister of Infrastructure is responsible for inter-regional and foreign transport and this is where he is the organiser. This is the order of things and this is the first basic information. Therefore, the keys to solving strike issues in Polregio or in the regional rail sector in general have in their hands the marshals and they are... [[Voice from the Chamber: Industrial Development Agency.]] No, no, marshals. I'll get to that and explain it to you. In addition, it should be recalled that the local authorities of the voivodships received a participation in CIT 1,5% , and then 0,75% Now it's 2,25%. You can argue if it's high enough, but it is. Where did the Industrial Development Agency come from in Regional Transports? It took place on the basis of a decision taken in 2015 to recapitalise Polregio and withdraw or reduce the process of self-government, because I note that the owner of Polregio, the leading of course, is the Industrial Development Agency, but the shareholders are also marshals. This is the ownership team that should cooperate in the relevant procedures described for limited liability companies, and now for public limited liability companies, because Polregio has turned into a public limited liability company, and lead to a situation in which the company is able to operate normally. It's like recapitulating. This recapitalisation decision taken just in 2015 led to a long process before the European Commission, ending only after difficult, difficult and extremely complicated negotiations, because the Commission went back very deeply into the past, analyzing Polregio's way of functioning in the context of recapitalisations and public aid for really very, very many levels and within the framework of many ideas. That's the decision. It is multi-page and has conditions: market opening conditions - this part about shortening the period of the possibility of entrusting us as the Ministry of Infrastructure has long been realized and it is put in order - plus the conditions for the organisation of tenders. And these tenders are to be organised by local governments of voivodships, that is their sole responsibility and competence. Therefore, this situation is not simple and any further State aid is extremely risky because it may result in suspension of the implementation of this conditional decision and the need to reimburse all the measures that will be considered unlawful State aid. You have to keep that in mind and keep that in mind. Of course, there's a dialogue going on. Although I do not think I can be called a mediator, I do not feel connected with this role, but I was asked by the Joint Committee of the Government and the Territorial Government to meet with the Marshal party, with a team of experts who was to be ready to act immediately. Then it turned out that the list of people was only obtained after a long May weekend and I could not name it after these two meetings a team of experts. Although these are people who have deep knowledge of the market, each of these people presented the position of their own voivodship. So this conversation was quite bogged down, difficult and generally settled on one postulate: Railway Fund, pay even for organizing transport in the form of compensation. As you understand, no one will make such decisions in a few days. The expectations of the social side and the conversations that the company and some of the owners held ended with a certain arrangement which was presented to the marshals according to my knowledge on Tuesday, and the talks are taking place at the moment. This is also confirmed by me, because the people who were at a virtual meeting on Wednesday, remote with me, said that they had received the relevant documents and that they are currently being analysed by the marshals within the framework of these activities (the bell), which are already taken bilaterally into each agreement. I assume the case will develop in such a way that an agreement is reached. I expect that very much. I urge those who have the power to do so, and those who have the power to do so are the Marshals of the voivodships. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u31	Thank you very much. An additional question is asked by Wiesław Szczepański, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u32	Minister! You didn't really answer our question, so maybe I'll make it a little more specific. Could you tell me at this moment how many marshals have decided to increase compensation? Of these 16, of course, although it can be said that the relevant shareholders are 13 or 12. How many have decided to pay, which is to increase the compensation for this company? Secondly, if, according to the Minister, there is a chance that this problem could be resolved before 16 May, so that the trains would not stop, and if you are not considering such a question, I understand that the prime minister's and the Industrial Development Agency should be addressed as the main shareholder of the company with 51%. Wouldn't it be better in the case you're saying they're marshals, buy back those shares from them and just get back to it like the Intercity carrier who organized the Regional Transports? It is a 100% company of the State Treasury. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Then the conversation would be with only one shareholder.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Bittel again corresponds to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u34	Mr. Speaker! I will try to explain this as gently as I can, especially this last issue. Whether the owner will be the Industrial Development Agency supervised by the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers or anyone else, has absolutely no meaning. It doesn't matter if it's a 100-percent owner or a 50-percent owner plus one share or one share. [[There's only one thing you can talk to.]] No, sir, because the organizer of transport at voivodeship level, according to the collective transport bill, is 16 marshals. If the Member was the President of such a company, as I wish, you would still be talking to 16 marshals, because it is completely different from who owns it and what he is supposed to take care of within the framework of his ownership rights - of course, he is supposed to take care of the development of the company, the principles of reward, cost-effectiveness, etc., that is, all those matters which are connected with it - and what else is the organisation of transport. In this case, each Marshal has an asset card in his hand, because he determines transport needs and then pays them, as well as constructs contracts. It is also worth to say that in each voivodship a different agreement is concluded, negotiated separately. There's no system in this case. To such an extent, there is no system that it is obvious that there are contracts of different time and tender contracts or expected tender contracts. Because in the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship we would very much wait for a tender according to what Mr Marshal committed himself in the course of this procedure: that he will announce the tender and settle, and that that market will be freed. And then there would be a tender agreement. These are the contracts from the commission, from the tender. One voivodship has no transport within Polregio, it is a Mazowieckie voivodship, hence the conversation is conducted with 15 marshals. As to the question of how many marshals have decided, I would like to say that we will know this tomorrow, because these conversations are ongoing and Dalgodah I personally do not participate in them, because it is absolutely not my role in any way. This role is played by the management of the company and the marshals, i.e. the parties to the agreement. We are waiting for this information, I think it will be passed on in the next few days. I am an optimist, and in order to deal with the railroad, one must be optimistic, and I believe that it will be possible to bring about a situation where the railway can function normally on Monday and in the following days. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u35	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Andrzej Grzyb, Mieczysław Kasprzak, Dariusz Klimczak, Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Stefan Krajewski, Krzysztof Paszyk, Jan Łopata, Urszula Nowogórska, Jacek Protasiewicz, Marek Sawicki and Czesław Siekierski from the Polish Coalition raise the question about drastic increases in credit instalments. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. Please ask Mr Dariusz Klimczak as the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In Poland we have more than 2.5 million active housing loans, which are repaid by about 4 million Poles. Today, as a result of the galloping inflation, the situation of people who have such housing loans is very difficult, and especially bad is the situation of those who have believed you to the President of the National Bank of Poland and have recently taken up a housing loan. In this situation, strong government action is needed to help borrowers, especially given that the Council of Ministers is led by a person who comes from the banking sector, has a lot of experience and certainly knows how to effectively help such people. Why doesn't he? Why is the Prime Minister, the government proposing solutions that do not satisfy Poles? I mean, we had a bank recolonization. For what purpose has this action been carried out? Or just to fill the authorities of these banks with their own people, or to have effective tools to help Poles in such crisis situations as today's situation? On the other hand, the specific question is: Why is it that the government does not want these banks affected, reduced or eliminated margins? We know the huge profits from that and this year, from the first quarter. On the other hand, why is it that the government in the same banks does not seek to make the rates of deposits and deposits increase significantly? These are my main questions. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u37	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Patkowski corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As indicated 2 weeks ago in the speech by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki at the Congress in Katowice, but also at the conference following the Tuesday meeting of the Council of Ministers, in which the Prime Minister and Minister Magdalena Rzeczkowska took part, the Council of Ministers at the last meeting of the Council of Ministers adopted assumptions based on three pillars of support for borrowers. Immediately on Tuesday, we passed on to the short arrangements a project aimed at helping borrowers. We would like - if the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers and then the Council of Ministers agreed first - that on 17 May the Council of Ministers should adopt provisions on the support of borrowers. We will then want to submit this proposal to the High House. I think there'll be a chance to process it efficiently. What is this support package made up of? These are, above all, three pillars. The first is the ability to determine the indicator, the replacement of WIBOR. This procedure is regulated in the EU BRM regulation, now being transferred to Polish legislation. As a matter of fact, this recipe has been under investigation for a few weeks now. Regardless of what is happening on the mortgage market, this is a procedure which allows the Minister of Finance to issue a replacement of WIBOR. This whole procedure is regulated by law. I think that within 2-3 weeks we will be talking about this right here in this House, on the example of a specific bill. The other two changes are an extension, but also a strengthening of the Creditor Support Fund. Reinforcing this is primarily capital strengthening. The bill, which I hope will soon be adopted by the Council of Ministers, obliges the banks to fund 1,400 million PLN by the end of 2022. The total value of the fund will be PLN 2 billion. But what is important, this fund, if greater needs are reported by borrowers, will be able to be regularly powered. It will not require a statutory decision, it will be decided by the fund board, so it will be a very fast and efficient process. The Fund also has, taking into account the media reports and the expectations of borrowers, the conditions that allow the aid to be directed to the borrowers actually most in need. Yesterday, a debate took place at the Parliamentary Committee on Public Finance. I was very pleased to note that the representatives of both the Law and Justice Club and the Civic Coalition Club and the Left Club agreed on one thing. We have the situation that this aid must be aimed at the people most in need, that these aid schemes should be sufficiently outlined so that we can actually reach those in need, those in need. And so the Creditor Support Fund is cut. We support those who actually because of interest rate increases... Although it is worth recalling that the current NBP reference rate is not a record rate if we recall the rates under the PO-PSL government. Such rates were also in your government, so remember that. The same was true of the WIBOR indicator, and he's not record-breaking at this point either. But it's important that this fund works for those borrowers who have a debt problem. We fund it capitalally, but we also irritate it organizationally so that borrowers who wish to use it can do so as quickly as possible. And it's good. It is also worth recalling that the aid granted from this fund may amount to 33% decommitted, thus becoming irretrievable aid. The last, third pillar, which we propose, is the so-called. Credit holidays: four instalments, two per quarter, 2022 and one per quarter in 2023. In total, it is eight instalments for which the borrower - provided that he has incurred a mortgage for housing purposes, because this is very important if we want to support those who borrow for housing purposes - will be able, if this is his decision, to ask the bank, to request that the instalment be deferred and postponed at the end of the repayment period. At the same time, this shift period will be a period which will not be subject to interest. Therefore, this will not require a fee of interest during this period, during the period of use of these holidays. These are the solutions that we want them to come into force in July, given the pace of work. They are also quite optimistic, although very difficult, talking to the sector, which is also very interested in these solutions. This term is ambitious, but realistic. Thank you. [[There's nothing on this yet.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u39	Thank you very much. An additional question, of course, once again, Mr Dariusz Klimczak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u40	Thank you very much. Minister! Unfortunately, you have not answered my fundamental question regarding the use of those instruments that you have in your hand on margins and on increasing the interest rate on deposits and deposits. That was my basic question. You don't need to go back to the past because this is where you might stumble. In 2015, when you took power in Poland after the government of PO-PSL, interest rates were 1.5%. I have a question for you: Why, apart from matters relating to margin and interest rates on deposits and deposits, you do not interfere courageously with these issues, among others. Why don't you issue high-interest, 10% bonds? So that the Poles have a place to put their savings. Why aren't you taking decisive action on the WIBOR case? After all, you know about the collective lawsuit (the bell) in the case of WIBOR or the opinions of economists who say that WIBOR is an artificial tax. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u41	Thank you. Mr Piotr Patkowski again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u42	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As far as interest rates are concerned, please remind me how much rates were in 2008-2009 or 2011. The interest rates are changed. And what's very important is... It's not about bidding when they were bigger. It's about standing in the truth and telling the truth. During the PO-PSL governments there were also periods in which the rates were higher, so talking about the fact that there are now record indicators is simply unfair, unauthorized. On the other hand, there was a question about interest-bearing bonds. Yesterday, the Prime Minister announced that such bonds would be issued. They will mainly rely on the NBP reference rate if they are short-term. If they're longer, they'll be indexed with inflation. The details we want to show at the end of May, because probably these retail bonds will be held in June, so the period to show the details of the issue of such bonds is the end of May. That's what we want to do. Always remember, however, that following... [[Who's gonna sell?]] Excuse me? [[Who's gonna sell?]] At this point, he's selling PKO BP's bank. We want to extend this to Pekao SA, but we are open to the banks that are interested in doing this. We really want the distribution of these bonds to be as broad as possible and, above all, as simple as possible. Please note that often commercial banks themselves do not pay to sell these bonds. It's not that the government doesn't intend to sell those bonds through commercial banks, it's just that they don't have any interest in it, specifically - the economic advantage to do it. These bonds will be issued at the end of May. I'm not gonna talk about the details yet, because, according to the bond rules, they're gonna show up at the end of the month. As it will be the bonds placed on the market in June, we will inform about it at the end of May. On the other hand, such bonds protecting the savings of Poles will be offered. I do not hide the fact that their aim is to encourage banks - and it is so hard - to increase the interest rate on investments. I would like to mention that one of the banks, with a rather clear share of the State Treasury, offered a higher rate of investment the day before yesterday. We hope that this will continue, that other banks, also commercial ones, will join this, but above all we want retail bonds to make banks more refer to the higher percentage of investments assumed by Poles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u43	Thank you, Minister. We'll proceed with the next question. Members Andrzej Gawron, Jarosław Gonciarz, Waldemar Andzel, Jerzy Małecki and Patryk Wicher from Law and Justice ask the Ministry of Finance to protect Polish borrowers. The first question is asked by Andrzej Gawron and Waldemar Andzel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Of course, inflation is happening, and it's so high, but it's caused by external factors. This is inflation, you can even say, global. In many countries its growth has not been recorded in decades, it is a big increase. E.g. at our neighbor's, in Germany, it's been at a level that hasn't been recorded in over 40 years. It is all the more important to adopt solutions that will protect those who have taken credit at a low reference rate. Now they're actually having trouble paying their instalments. I think that, in answer to the previous question, the Minister has said a lot about this, but I would ask for further details on the programmes that the government intends to introduce. And in such a broader perspective as the planned change in the reference rate, which, as the Minister himself noted, was also quite high in other periods.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u45	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! As you can see, the government has taken immediate action to help borrowers. In fact, the bill in question consists of three pillars: the liquidation of WIBOR, the Credit Support Fund and credit holidays. Please provide details of the credit holiday, which parts of the credit will be included in the loan? Or is it just the equity part or the interest part? [[♪ The bell ♪]] What if someone has several mortgages, will the bank be able to refuse to provide such support to the borrower? Have similar steps been or are being taken in other countries? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Patkowski corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u47	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I will start with the issue of replacing WIBOR, because this is actually the most difficult and systemic issue in the Palet of these solutions. As I mentioned in my reply to the previous question, the regulation will allow a replacement to be issued to WIBOR, but it must be remembered that WIBOR can actually be replaced - and should, as I am about to say, two indicators, a replacement, which will be designated by a regulation of the Minister of Finance. This regulation describes the whole procedure. This replacement will be appointed by KNF in agreement with the banking sector and the GPW Benzmark, followed by an opinion from the Financial Stability Committee consisting of representatives of NBP, KNF, BFG and the Ministry of Finance and then, if there is an opinion, an agreed position, on the basis of this position, the Ministry of Finance will issue a regulation establishing a replacement for WIBOR. In case such a replacement is not issued, the draft law refers to the benchmark established by the NBP, i.e. the POLONIA indicator. This is an emergency situation that I don't think is going to apply, but we're putting in such a security in case there's no consensus for some reason. About the replacement WIBOR. In addition to the replacement WIBOR... The WIBOR replacement will mainly apply to credit agreements that are already concluded and implemented, and an alternative indicator is also planned. The alternative indicator, unlike the replacement, is to include credit agreements that are still to be concluded. The point is that we want to spend these two indicators in parallel to include both existing agreements and future agreements. This is important for the stability of the banking sector, except that the alternative indicator, unlike the replacement WIBOR, does not have to be issued by legislative means, i.e. by regulation of the Minister of Finance. This is the decision of the GPW Benzmark following the agreements with the sector. So here this procedure, at least from a formal point of view, is simple, and in substance, of course, these are far more difficult issues. I would also like to point out that, in addition to mortgage loans, the substitute and the alternative rate of WIBOR will apply to other financial instruments, which also requires a very large reflection on how to do so in order to maintain the stability of the banking sector. However, what seems to be most interested in mortgage borrowers, after the entry into force of the bill on the support of borrowers, the Ministry of Finance together with the GPW Benzmark, KNF and the Financial Stability Committee will gain a very fast and efficient tool to replace WIBOR. It won't require long legal procedures anymore, we can do it by regulation. So since July, we're going to get this very strong instrument for influencing credit agreements. With regard to credit holidays, here, as I mentioned in my reply to the previous question, will cover eight mortgage instalments in 2022 and 2023, two instalments per quarter in 2022 and one mortgage rate per quarter in 2023. We also want the Council of Ministers to go in this direction - to include, first and foremost, zloty loans and those intended for housing purposes rather than investment purposes. Hence, the provisions of the Act are going in the direction to support, above all, those who have taken up loans for housing and for their own housing needs. And so these regulations are being constructed at the moment. Of course, they are subject to further arrangements and then to discussions at the Council of Ministers. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u48	Thank you very much. An additional question will be asked by Mr Jarosław Gonciusz, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u49	Minister! In your previous statement, you mentioned that aid must be aimed at. This is very important. I would like to ask if the Ministry has data showing the scale of the aid, the costs of the aid that is being prepared in this package for borrowers. Can the Ministry have data, how many citizens have since the rising costs associated with higher WIBOR rates, as well as interest rates, asked banks to suspend payments or set more convenient instalments for themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u50	Thank you. Mr Piotr Patkowski again corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u51	In terms of the extent of support for individuals, or actually for households, whether they are single or multi-member households that have a mortgage, we estimate that there are 2 million of them. And these 2 million households will be able to benefit from whether they will be entitled - that does not mean that they will benefit, but will be entitled - to take credit vacations. We estimate it's probably going to be about 50%. But when it's real, time will tell. The maximum pool of eligible entities, on the other hand, is 2 million households. As far as the Creditor Support Fund is concerned, it is more difficult to estimate. KNF is trying to do this on the basis of data that banks also have, but if you look at the level of interest, you would see that it is growing, although it is still relatively low. We have also tried in the last few weeks to determine what is happening, that the level of interest in the Credit Support Fund is much lower than, it would seem, the number of people entitled to it. The answer is simple: still very few borrowers know about the possibility of such support. Therefore, I hope that this work of the Council of Ministers, but also today's discussion will make these borrowers aware and help those borrowers who want to benefit from such assistance. But we are also aware that the conversation itself is sometimes not enough. Thus, the Act will also sewn up a mechanism whereby banks can, firstly, make it possible to submit an electronic request for support, but also in individual situations banks will be required to inform borrowers about the possibility of obtaining support from such a fund. Importantly, also in line with the methodology of drafting an impact assessment on the law, we tried to estimate the costs that banks would have to bear for using these instruments. The Credit Support Fund, as I said, will be 1400 million, while we estimate that credit holidays can cost up to 9 billion PLN per year. So this amount will at the same time be the amount of relief that borrowers who wish to benefit from this aid will be able to receive. So that 8.9 billion is the sum total of the loan holidays and support for the Credit Support Fund. At the same time, this is the amount that borrowers will be able to pay less this year when it comes to credit assistance. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Our bill.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u52	Thank you, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[Our bill once. I made it myself.]] Tadeusz Chrzan, Barbara Dziuk, Grzegorz Lorek, Paweł Rychlik, Violetta Porowska and Anna April from the Law and Justice Club address the question to the Minister of Health on the size of health care expenditure. Mr Tadeusz Chrzan is the first to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u53	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! I think pandemic time has made us all aware of the importance of health security. In my view, it is equally important if not more important than energy security, military security or internal security. On the other hand, we are all aware that, in order to pursue the health policy of the state, adequate financing of health protection must be ensured. I think we all realize that health for all of us, for all Poles, is particularly important. That's why, Minister, considering that in March Ub. The government submitted a draft law in the High House on the increase in health expenditure and the High Chamber in May. r. this project has adopted... Despite opposition from Members of the opposition, this draft was adopted with the votes of Members of Law and Justice. The project assumed an increase in health expenditure of up to 7% gross domestic product. In view of the above, I would like to ask for information as to whether this law is being implemented and how the expenditure on health protection developed during the pandemic. We are already in the following year and we probably have the 1st quarter of this year, so I would also like to ask you for information on how expenditures in this year on health care are shaping up. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Miłkowski corresponds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u55	Dear Marshal, (PL) Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Thank you very much for asking me what the situation is like, also today, after the first quarter. I was going to say that we don't see any problems, any obstacles, to the fact that it was adopted in September Ub. r. the Act to implement the assumptions for this year. We do not see any risks that could affect the failure to reach the reference value in 2022, i.e. 5.75% GDP. This indicator is likely to be significantly exceeded. As regards this law and expenditure on the health system, this law was introduced in 2017. At first, it was supposed to be 6%. GDP in 2025, finally in 2024 and now has undergone this change that 6% we will reach in 2023. From this point on, from 2017, over the three years from 2018 to 2021, spending on the health system has increased by 48 billion - from 93 billion in 2018 to 141 billion last year. In 2027 it will be 7%. During these 5 years, from 2022 to 2027, this law provides an increase of PLN 107.4 billion - such measures are planned for the health system. In 2022, expenditures of 4.6 billion more than planned were taken into account. Thus expenditure is planned at 133.6 billion, which represents 5.75% GDP and 6% for 2023 GDP, which is PLN 151.7 billion. What has this money been earmarked for? As regards the period from 2018, in 2018 to the NFZ there were 81 billion PLN, and now, after the last revision of the financial plan for benefits, the cost of healthcare services, the National Health Fund has 122 billion PLN. During this time, the entity grant from the state budget and the contributions to the reserve fund exceeded PLN 8.2 billion. This year it is planned for an entity grant of PLN 700 million. Practically all items of the financial plans - both the NFZ-et and the state budget, the Ministry of Health, in relation to the tasks carried out by the Ministry of Health - were significantly increased. As regards the financing of traineeships and medical specialisations, there were 1.4 billion and 3.2 billion planned this year. Therefore, this is significantly more than doubling. This has ensured the impact of increasing the minimum salaries of basic trainees, residents and has enabled the training of doctors and dentists undergoing post-graduate training and specialization on the basis of residency. A very significant increase was in the medical rescue system, which is financed by the health system by the voivodships - from 2.1 billion, which were spent in 2018, to 2.8 billion in 2022. This allowed for an increase in the extracouple rate and a 30% away allowance for the staff of the outgoing ambulances last year. There has also been a significant increase in expenditure on strengthening the implementation of sanitary inspection tasks - from PLN 1 billion to PLN 2 billion this year. This made it possible to increase the salaries of workers, to secure health inspection staff, as well as to cover the increase in the costs of other tasks - the implementation of information systems and all other tasks, what makes the health inspection a modern unit. And of course also training of medical staff, financing of medical universities - additional resources have also been provided for this. At present, this is 2.1 billion as part of a subsidy to medical institutions in the health care system. As regards the pandemic, additional funds were also transferred to the health system at that time. In 2020, in the first year of the pandemic, it was 12.4 billion, and in 2021 it was 31 billion. In 2022, 18.9 billion are planned - the whole 1st quarter has been used very heavily. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Since 1 April, these expenditures have decreased significantly. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u56	Thank you very much. The additional question will be asked by Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u57	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, thank you very much for your information. Seeing the great commitment of the Ministry of Health during the COVID and meeting both financial expectations in terms of all medical units and in terms of patient care, I wanted to thank you very much. But I also have a question. We know that the equipment that was used in hospitals during the pandemic was wearing out because it was a huge amount of research. Is the Ministry currently planning new additional funding for hospitals for individuals involved in the pandemic period? Will this be implemented in the near future? How does the Ministry see it? What are some of the strategies that the Ministry now has in this regard? And today I also wanted to thank (the bell) medical staff, because we have a day of nurses and nurses, for the great work and effort involved in caring for the patient. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Miłkowski again responds to the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u59	(PL) Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and As far as investment funds are concerned, we have many sources of funding for investments that are planned and are being implemented. As far as the measures are concerned, the expenditure of the Minister of Health for multi-annual investments is, of course, being implemented in accordance with the timetable at all times. New investments are being implemented all the time. Some end, new ones start, so that these investments are implemented. This year, it continues - in previous years it was also quite large - investments related to reconstruction and expansion and expenditure on medical equipment transferred to hospitals from the COVID fund. This year has also been planned - this is one of the few expenditures planned by the end of the year - so that medicinal entities can adapt their resources to pandemics, to subsequent phases, to subsequent periods. There are 800 million that are transferred - the vast majority by the voivods - to investments related to COVID. This includes oxygen investments. We have done a lot, practically repairing the oxygen system throughout Poland, in all hospitals that had problems securing patients with oxygen from large tanks, so that this oxygen system is absolutely safe for patients. There are also planned funds from the Medical Fund for various kinds of investments. Currently, proposals have been submitted for the first major medical fund project related to strategic investments in trans-regional children's hospitals. In addition, funds are prepared for oncology, for the exchange of beds, for renovations when it comes to long-term care. So that there are resources in this area from the Medical Fund. There are also timetables for EU and National Reconstruction Plans. These jobs are still going on. We have the assumption that in the coming years the equipment (the bell) will indeed be bought, replaced and used for patients. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u60	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question. Members Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Arkadiusz Myrch, Barbara Dolniak, Magdalena Filiks, Katarzyna Osos, Katarzyna Piekarska, Grzegorz Rusiecki and Michał Szczerba from the Civic Coalition - a question addressed to the Minister of Justice. The first question is asked by Mrs Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz. [[Mr Kamil Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Sorry, I have to remove my I.D.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u61	The public is familiar with further alarming information concerning the so-called. The Casta/Antiquist groups and today, I think there is no doubt that there was such an organized hater group in the Ministry of Justice - no one but the prosecutor's office and the Minister of Justice. The prosecution continues to investigate this case, and participation in the caste seems to be a criterion for nomination to the neo-KRS and subsequent promotions in the courts. The only person who has any consequences for this case is a reporter who describes it. I would like to ask the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, unfortunately he is not in the Chamber: When will the investigation end with the charges? What actions do the Ministry of Justice or the prosecution intend to take in connection with information on the setting up of competitions for judicial positions? Has any action been taken following disclosure of the unlawful use of personal files in the Ministry of Justice? Why is it taking so long to explain this matter? How many complaints about chronicity have been filed? How many of these complaints did the court take into account? Why has the procedure been moved twice already? Was the history of the mail coming out of the office accounts on the servers of the Ministry of Justice, which belonged to Łukasz Piebiak, Jakub Ivanec, addressed to private addresses of their own or other persons associated with the hater affair, including documents or orders? In addition to the telephones of Luke Piebiak and Jacob Ivanec, were their private equipment secure: cell phones, tablets and computers? If not, why not? I am afraid that the answers to these questions will unfortunately not be heard, since even asking questions alone is a reason to break the session of the Sejm committee. We will not hear, because just this heifer affair was not an accident at work, it was a planned, systemic action of a group that aimed (the bell) to subjugate justice to politicians and therefore discredits independent judges.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u62	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Sierak, Deputy Prosecutor General, answers the question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u63	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! To answer such a very general question... [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: How general? Detailed.]] ...the so-called question that there is any lack of action by the Minister of Justice and, above all, the lack of action by the prosecution to clarify this case, which is mediaally referred to as a hater affair, in answer to such a question, I must strongly deny and state that this thesis is absolutely false. The argument that the prosecution doesn't do anything about it, and he's covering for someone, is absolutely misleading the public. The thesis has nothing to do with the actual picture of the investigation. And just so humanly speaking, it's very damaging to the prosecution and prosecutors who personally carry out their activities. Of course, I will provide the High House with a framework for its investigative work, but given the rules of investigation, and in particular the secrecy of the investigation, on certain aspects, and therefore I cannot make public the circumstances and details which the disclosure of which would make it difficult to proceed in the future. This investigation is being conducted on the excess of powers by public officials acting in the Ministry of Justice through the unacceptable processing of personal data and documents, which have been detrimental to the public and private interests, i.e. for an act of art. 231 § 1 of the Penal Code and Art. 107. 1 Personal Data Protection Act. This investigation was initiated on 21 August 2019 in the District Attorney's Office in Warsaw immediately after the publication of the media publications on all the circumstances which are the subject of the investigation, as well as after notification of the offence by one of the Members. On the day of the initiation of the investigation, the prosecution immediately took legal action to secure computers, electronic media and telephones used by the judges indicated in the notice. [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Private?]] The prosecution has also secured the full content of their e-mail correspondence. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: Private too?]] The provisions on the request for the issue of the goods and the order for the search, documented by the relevant protocols, were implemented on the date of issue of the said provisions and on the following days without undue delay. In order to guarantee the complete impartiality of the prosecutor's proceedings and possibly a judicial investigation, the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Lublin, i.e. outside the area of the district of Warsaw, was transferred to the district where the judges concerned held their duties. As regards the activities that have been carried out so far in the course of the investigation, the data from the servers of the Ministry of Justice was primarily secured and analysed. I know she's still going on. An analysis has been carried out of activities on social networks of persons covered by the crime notification. Several dozens were interviewed as witnesses. A review was made of files and documents from other cases, including court files, in which evidence could be relevant to the investigation. Data covered by the criminal proceedings were obtained and secured by users of e-mail accounts and very extensive e-mail correspondence coming and coming from web portals. In addition, user data and telephone records have been obtained from mobile telephone operators. The remaining evidence and the evidence collected were examined, followed by appropriate preliminary analyses. International legal assistance has also been requested to the United States and Ireland to secure and issue information from Internet instant messaging accounts. And it is these actions, in particular the expectation of legal aid, that are always the most time-consuming. It was consulted on the opinion of experts in the field of IT research. In addition, material was obtained concerning another ongoing investigation conducted by the prosecutor's office on the notification of one of the judges. Of course, the preliminary investigation, as we all know, was sent to the District Attorney's Office in Świdnica in January 2021 to take account of the request of the regional prosecutor in Lublin for transfer under § The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union. 5 Rules of Procedure for the Office of the General Administrative Units of the Prosecutor's Office to transfer together several cases in that Unit to other prosecutors due to the considerable burden on the Regional Prosecutor's Office in Lublin and the need to ensure continuity of proceedings. The investigation at that time was at the stage of the collection of extensive evidence. Changing the D.A.'s office didn't in any way slow down the investigation. One foreign legal aid has been obtained so far: it has already been implemented and the evidence obtained by the prosecutor is currently being analysed. I can only point out that one of the Internet boxes we received contains over 182 thousand. E-mails along with attachments, and this is not just one box. The conclusions of this analysis will guide further procedural actions, the type and scope of which will be extended to the results of the expert opinion currently being drawn up and the second foreign legal assistance that has not yet been implemented. High Izbo! Released in the media in January of this year, as well as in April 2022. [[♪ The bell ♪]] i.e. this year, in the programme Black and white by the judge participating in the programme, the circumstances concerning the subject matter of the case are not new circumstances for the prosecution. I stress: the circumstances that judges speak of when they meet with you are not new circumstances for us. We know about these circumstances and we verify them.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u64	Thank you very much, Mr. Prosecutor. An additional question is asked by Mr Arkadiusz Myrch, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u65	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Mr. District Attorney! Speech rich in information about different circumstances, but generally not bringing anything new to the case. We didn't learn from your statement, Mr. District Attorney, whether the carriers secured in the preparatory proceedings were merely service carriers, or whether there were private carriers there. This is crucial to the case. We haven't found out if this case has entered the ad personam phase and whether anybody is actually being charged. 3 years of ongoing preparatory proceedings are an extremely long time for this type of case. Please note that in the case of crimes, i.e. the most serious criminal offences, cases often end in an act of indictment and judicial judgment before the expiry of two years. You're not even at the stage of accusing anyone. The tardiness of the D.A.'s office is extremely high in this case. And the last question (the bell) is: Has any of the heads of the Ministry of Justice been questioned as a witness? I'm talking about the Minister, the Secretary of State and the Undersecretaries of State.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u66	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Sierak, Deputy Attorney General, is responsible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u67	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I would like to stress that this investigation requires a great deal of work. You are wrong if you say that such matters are being handled very quickly. Just the fact that a huge number of binders with emails were secured, which require an analysis of the links, who wrote to whom, who answered, where... This really requires an extraordinary amount of work. Believe me. Of course, the investigation is ongoing. There are also many analyses conducted. We are constantly complementing the evidence that expands our knowledge of all events and their course, and I am talking about all these factual findings. Of course, this belongs to the prosecutor, and in due course, after an examination of all the evidence, he will decide whether to turn the stage of proceedings in rem into an ad personam stage. Given that I am merely supervising this procedure, I am not aware of such detailed facts as you may ask, but I do not think that anyone at this stage of the proceedings would be liable for criminal liability by revealing the circumstances of the proceedings. I kindly ask you to put in writing questions for details. I think the prosecutor who's running the case will be able to address these questions in a wider way. [[And is anybody from the Ministry of Justice...]] Thank you kindly. That's all I have to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u68	Thank you very much. We'll proceed with the next question. Mr Barbara Bartus, Ms Joanna Borowiak, Ms Katarzyna Sjojka, Ms Ewa Kozanecka, Mr Robert Telus and Mr Marek Pole from the Law and Justice Club will ask a question addressed to the Minister of Family and Social Policy. The first question is asked by Mrs Barbara Bartus.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u69	Thank you. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! One of the instruments of family policy that enable the country to create conditions that make it easier for citizens to reconcile working life with family responsibilities is the system of social services for the care of a young child. The government, as Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki said recently during his visit to Małopolska, has done a lot in this area recently. We introduced, among others. family care capital or funding of the child's stay in care institutions. On the other hand, the management, the creation of daycare is mainly the task of local governments. However, the government is not idle in this respect, as the Prime Minister also said. But I have a question: How has the government recently influenced this number of crèches in Poland? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u70	The country's pro-family policy is also a concern to provide parents with childcare facilities for young children under the age of 3. The Government of Law and Justice supports the development of childcare institutions, supports local authorities in creating new places of care and maintaining those that have been created so far. Support for local authorities from smaller towns and rural areas is particularly important. At the initiative of the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, the Youth+Programme is being implemented. Minister, I'd like to ask you to give us some more details about this program. How many childcare facilities under the age of 3 have been created during the rule of the United Right since 2015? This is an extremely important issue, because the development of institutions and childcare sites up to the age of 3 also has a very positive impact on the possibility of women returning to the labour market. This is extremely important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u71	Thank you. The second part of the question was asked by Mrs Joanna Borowiak, also from the Law and Justice Club. I would like an answer from the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, Mrs Barbara Socha.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u72	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Creating good living conditions for families in Poland is an absolute priority of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. This is also the main objective of the document The 2040 demographic strategy, which I hope will be adopted by the Council of Ministers on a day-to-day basis. One of the most important areas that influence the creation of convenient conditions for young people in Poland to start families and to expand their families is the area related to the care of young children. This area is also very closely linked to the area of financial security for families, because we know that the family in which the child is born, whether the first or the next, bears more costs associated with maintaining more people, but it is also difficult to obtain income, which is related to the fact that we are dedicated, at least for a time, to taking care of children and therefore resigning from their professional activities. We stand in such a position that we want to respond to the preferences of Polish families about how they want to take care of children. Therefore, the absolutely revolutionary change that has taken place recently is the introduction of an instrument that we have called Family Care Capital, which means support for parents of 2- and 3-year-old children in choosing the form of preferred care for these children. This instrument concerns the children of others and others, because we know that one of the major barriers to subsequent births is this moment, the first 3 years in the child's life, when expensive, also requiring a logistically and organizationally great effort to provide care for children and it is a huge cost for women to take during this working time. The Youth+ Programme, which was established a few years ago, is a programme aimed at creating institutional childcare facilities. To give a brief overview of its scope, I can say that by 2015 about PLN 150 million per year was allocated to this programme, and since 2015 this budget has been increased three times, from PLN 150 to PLN 450 million. As a result, by the end of last year the number of places in daycare increased from 84 thousand. to 213,000. With today's number of yearbooks, about 330 thousand. children in the last year, it is already a very large number and means that so-called. the level of care, i.e. the availability of nursery facilities for children, increased from 12.5% To almost 30% last year. This means that we can say that we have come closer, and actually we have already achieved the so-called. Barcelona's objectives, i.e. those which the European Union had set for Member States many years ago, to create conditions and make care facilities available. Self-governments, which are very willing to create crèches in large cities, have this task facilitated in the sense that they are richer local governments. On the other hand, we know that all local governments in the so-called. This task is much more difficult in Poland due to less funding opportunities. And we know that, apart from the fact that 450 million, or three times the budget, has been allocated to new investments, to create new crèches, this is the biggest barrier that has existed so far, is the fact that it is necessary to finance and maintain these places later. Average cost of care for one child this is about PLN 1000-1200 on a national scale, while we know that parents of such fees are not able to cover in full, therefore the huge effort of local governments is to finance this care. That is why the second, absolutely revolutionary change we have made this year is that we are spending the entire budget of 450 million just to finance daycare facilities. This will make it much easier for local authorities to create much more accessible daycare because the cost of living will decrease significantly. 400 PLN per month is a significant reduction in the crèche charge, which will help local governments to maintain these investments. The whole idea of integrating the Youth+ programme is that we want to combine all existing sources of funding from this year, and thus the EU funds used to date with the existing budget of the Youth+ programme and also with the huge investment effort resulting from the National Reconstruction Plan. We are therefore hoping that once the NCP is unblocked by the European Commission, we will be able to launch a new edition of the Small+Early Programme, which will have three times the budget, once again three times the budget with the means of funding to facilitate local governments' decision-making (the bell) to invest in this infrastructure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u73	Thank you very much. Now you ask Katarzyna Sjojka and Marek Pole from Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u74	Thank you very much, Marshal. Dear Minister, As an example of an active we have working all the time, we have four children, the youngest - 1.5-year-old daughter, I very much appreciate the changes that have occurred recently, in recent years during the rule of law and justice, and that the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki takes care of Polish families. I am also a rural resident and I see how many crèches have recently been created in my area, in small towns, in small municipalities which today are fully exploited. I thought of such an inquiry, perhaps even more to your marshal, your marshal, but also to the Minister: Could you arrange for a few places to take care of small children in the Sejm? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u75	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! 2 years ago, the government allocated PLN 400 million to implement this programme, and last year by 50 million more. I would like to ask - perhaps I have not heard - whether there is a known amount of resources for the implementation of this programme that will be involved in this year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u76	Thank you very much. Mr Barbara Socha, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy, again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u77	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mrs. Member! Any institution, including the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, can create a care institution such as a nursery or a children's club, so nothing prevents this from happening. With regard to funding questions, as I said, the entire budget that we have spent on the programmeMilch+that of PLN 450 million per year will now be used to finance crèche fees. The budget of the same amount was planned as part of our National Reconstruction Plan, which is another PLN 0.5 billion. The third PLN 0.5 billion is funds from the European Social Fund, which will be used to finance places created from investments from KPOs. Thus, together, the entire programme will have a budget of about PLN 1.5 billion in the new edition, in the triple edition of the combined funds, of all sources of funding. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u78	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Members of Teresa Wargock, Elżbieta Płonka, Urszula Rusecka, Bożena Borys-Szopa and Anita Czerwińska from the Law and Justice Club address the question to the Minister of Education and Science. Please, as the first Mrs Teresa Wargock. Turn on the mike, please. [[Voice from the room: ID.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u79	I've got ID. That's good. Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, The exams and exams of the eighth grade, two exams in the Polish education system carried out by the Central Examination Board, have a very important role in determining the level of fulfilment of educational requirements by the entire population of 15-year-olds and high school graduates. These exams are extremely important because the eighth grade exam is also an exam in which the points obtained are taken into account for the recruitment to secondary schools, while the results of individual students of the Matura exam form the basis for the recruitment for higher education. We know that during the pandemic period, the previous 2 years of school were burdened with the enormous difficulties encountered by the Polish education system, i.e. the transition to remote work. As I said, these exams are extremely important for the future of the young generation. I would like to ask the Minister what changes have been made in terms of organisation, the conduct of the exam and the eight-grade exam in the summer sessions 2022 and 2023. How's the prom exam going these days? I would also like to ask you to provide information on the arrangements for the next school year. Are there plans?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u80	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Education and Science of Mr Dariusz Piontkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u81	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! These exams actually perform a very important function in the Polish education system. Their results depend to a large extent on the situation of pupils who want to continue their education in secondary schools or in higher education. These exam sessions are held in May. We're in the middle of our SATs. These exams so far, fortunately, are going smoothly, we don't have any signals to cause any more serious irregularities. As in the previous year, also this year, students of senior classes pass an exam according to a different range of content than in previous years. This is due to the fact that in the last two years we have been dealing with epidemics, the transition of students to a remote learning system, which has affected to some extent what extent of material, content and skills the students could possess. That is why, last year, we decided that the scope of both the prom exam and the eighth grade exam should not refer to the content contained in the program base and instead to the content of the requirements related to the exam. These requirements on the eighth grade exam and the prom exam are slightly exaggerated compared to the content contained in the program base. In the case of Matura last year and in this case we decided to depart from oral exams from Polish and foreign languages, except for special exceptions, when the study program also requires passing an oral exam, but this applies to a very small group of people. At the moment, there is a draft law in the Sejm that regulates the organisation of the eighth grade exam and the prom exam in the following school years, and this Member State will decide what the final shape of these exams will be. This year, apart from three compulsory examinations at the basic level, i.e. Polish language, mathematics and the selected modern foreign language, students are obliged to additionally pass at least one exam at the extended level. Here is the full freedom of choice among those subjects that can be selected on the prom exam. This year, there is no barrier to determining the outcome of this one mandatory extended test. In the case of three subjects compulsory at the basic level, it is an obligation to obtain a minimum of 30% of the points available for acquisition. In addition, students can of course choose additional subjects at an extended level, depending on what course of study they will then want to pass and what are the requirements of the university. Exams have been going on for a few days, they're quite stretched out over time. Since the number of students who pass individual subjects is quite large, these exams cannot be accumulated within 2 or 3 days, they must be extended for twenty days. The eighth grade exam is an exam to graduate from primary school. This year We gave up plans that assumed there would be a fourth exam. On the eighth grade exam, as on the exam, there are exams from three subjects: Polish, Mathematics and the selected modern foreign language. It was planned that since this year there would also be an additional, fourth exam, but the state of epidemics and earlier strikes, and therefore also the difficulty of attending school and school breaks led to the conclusion that at least for the time being we will not introduce this additional exam. The change we have maintained since the previous year is the change in the deadline for conducting this exam. In earlier years this exam took place in April. We have had numerous signals from primary school heads that such a moment of placement of the exam ending primary school makes it difficult to continue education and is demotivating for pupils in grade VIII, which is why after discussions, among other things. With the Central Examination Board, we considered it possible to postpone this exam to the end of May. Last year and this year also the eighth grade exam takes place at the end of May. These exams have prepared sheets many months earlier. The Central Examination Board shall, using its experts, draw up sheets which are properly standardised, be tested so that they are adapted to the possibilities of pupils and the content contained in the programming bases. We hope that, like the exams, the exams of the eighth grade will be done without any interruptions. School heads and teachers on examination boards already have many years of experience in conducting these exams. All teachers, members of the examination boards and examination teams undergo training, know the procedures and thus carry out the examinations in an undisturbed manner. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u82	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the next question... [[Additional question.]] Oh, the extra question. Katarzyna Jajka and Marek Polak? No, they're next. I'm sorry. Elizabeth Flame and... No, just Mrs Elżbieta Flanek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u83	Thank you very much. Minister! About 1 million children from Ukraine have crossed the Polish border and a large number of these children have started schooling in Polish schools. They are also included in the eighth grade exam and the prom exam. There are certain requirements for students from Ukraine, because certainly the teaching systems differ. Therefore, I ask the Minister what number of students from Ukraine has taken the eighth grade test. As far as seniors are concerned, the Central Examination Board has prepared guidelines according to which the Matura for young people from Ukraine is being conducted. Undoubtedly, they are obliged to take a test from Polish, mathematics, selected modern language (Dawn) and additional subject. Please tell us what rules apply to Ukrainian young people attending the Matura.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u84	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State of the Ministry of Education and Science, Dariusz Piontkowski, is again responsible. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u85	Firstly, it must be made clear that we do not really know how many students from Ukraine are in Poland. We can say quite precisely how many students have been enrolled in Polish schools, because school heads are obliged within 7 days of receiving such a student to the Polish school to show him in the Educational Information System. This keeps us informed about the number of students. According to yesterday's data, there's almost 200,000. students in the Polish system, so this is a much different number from the estimates that you spoke about. It was the directors and teachers who decided to the class at which level these students from Ukraine were accepted in Polish schools. On the basis of an interview, information on how many years of study they had been in the Ukrainian system, they were admitted to the appropriate classes at the appropriate level. Most of the directors considered, as regards pupils who could be in the VIII grade, that since the Ukrainian system differs from the Polish system, they could be enrolled in the VII class. We see that there are far more of these students in Class VII than e.g. in classes VIII or junior classes. This is probably the reason why students who should be in Class VII or Class VIII were mostly enrolled in Class VII. However, those pupils enrolled in Class VIII who are obliged to take the eighth grade exam, if they want to graduate, are slightly over 7 thousand. They were given the opportunity to take the exam, as well as the possibility to make a declaration later than the Polish students, because when the war started in Ukraine and these students began to come to Poland, the dates for the declaration of accession to one or the other exam had already passed. We changed the rules, which enabled these students to make a declaration and take the exams. As far as students in senior classes are concerned, here the scale of the phenomenon is much, much smaller, because the information we have from the Central Examination Board shows that only 41 students from Ukraine have made declarations in the case of the Matura exam. It's not 41,000, it's 41 students against almost 300,000. students who give their M.A. this year. So you can see that this is actually a marginal phenomenon. These students must pass the exam on similar terms as Polish students, from the same subjects I spoke about a few minutes ago. They also have to select an additional item on the graduate course. We can show: these 41, or actually 40, because one did not come forward, students of course give Polish language, mathematics. On the other hand, when it comes to foreign language, most of them, because 33, chose English and 8 chose Russian. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Additional subjects are mostly mathematics - it was chosen by 17 students, biology - 6, chemistry - 3, physics - 5, geography - 1 student, history - 1 student, English - 16, Russian - 11, Ukrainian language - 18. We'll be able to tell you more about the eighth grade exam when it's over. We hope that just like the Matura it will run smoothly. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u86	Thank you very much. Let's move on to the last question. Frederick Kapinos, Teresa Pamuła, Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Kazimierz Gołojuch, Jan Warzecha, Kazimierz Chom and Beata Arrow from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice ask the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development. The first question is asked by Frederick Kapinos and Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u87	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, High Izbo! Rural hostels circles are a beautiful example of social activity in rural areas. It arouses respect and recognition of the multitude of activities which the circles undertake for the benefit of the communities of their villages, municipalities and voivodships. Taking care of cultural and national heritage, initiation of artistic, integration activities, efforts to develop folk culture - these are just examples of a full range of their activities. In addition to taking these activities, which we could call standard housewives' wheels, the wheels with great commitment also rush to help in difficult situations. This was the case during the COVID-19 pandemic, when, among other things, they took part. sewing masks or organizing festivals promoting vaccination against the coronavirus. This is also the case during the war in Ukraine, when among others. prepare warm meals, yeast, buns for refugees, organize collections of gifts, help refugees arriving in Poland. As announced by the Prime Minister, the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Henryk Kowalczyk, 2022 will be the fifth year in turn, in which the circles of rural hostess will be able to apply for funding for their activities. How much money did the rural housewives receive in the years 2018-2021?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u88	Thank you very much for the funds transferred to the rural hostel groups since 2018, and my additional question concerns the structure of the expenditure received from the funds. What were these funds spent on? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u89	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ms Anna Gembicka, is responsible. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u90	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! With regard to the measures that have already entered the rural hostess' circles in 2018-2021, this is a total of 134 749 thousand. zł. In 2018 it was 16 311 thousand. PLN, in 2019 - 29 697 thousand PLN, in 2020 - 32 871,000 PLN and last year - 55 870 thousand. zł. I would also like to remind you that since last year we have increased the amount of funding for rural hostels' wheels, depending on the number: 5 000. zł, 6 thousand. PLN or 7 000. zł. I would like to stress here that, in the overwhelming majority of the circles, they have no problem accounting for these measures. When the law entered into force in 2018, some of the environments claimed that the ladies of the rural hostess circles could not handle it. This turned out to be completely untrue, as we stressed, because we have created the simplest accounting system possible. I would also like to remind you that there is still a recruitment in the framework of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which can be used. I think what is worth emphasising is the fact that this year we started this recruitment earlier, he started at the beginning of April. And already at this point, the amount of aid granted is over PLN 32 million and nearly 7 thousand were paid. conclusions. The decisions on the basis of which the aid had already been granted were 5866, i.e. so many wheels had already received the aid. Taking advantage of this opportunity, I encourage the wheels that have not yet submitted these requests to benefit from this aid. Of course, we still have a few months to go, but I think this is a very good time to spend this money. With regard to what the funds were spent on, the main limitation here is to use them to achieve the statutory objectives. Of course, the parks of rural hostesses can use this model statute, which the agency makes available, but they can also, of course, make changes, use their statutes. These are among others. activities such as carrying out socio-educational and educational activities in rural environments, carrying out activities for comprehensive rural development, promoting the development of women's entrepreneurship, initiating and carrying out actions to improve the living and working conditions of women in rural areas, promoting and developing forms of interaction, management and rational household management and representation of the interests of the rural women's environment towards administrations or, of course, developing folk culture, including in particular local and regional culture. As regards specific examples of what these funds have been spent on, it can be said that very often these funds are spent on various types of equipment equipped with fireplaces, sometimes on small renovations of the seats used by the wheels, also on the purchase of folk costumes, various types of decorative articles, the organisation of trainings, workshops for ladies and gentlemen, of course, because gentlemen also work in circles, the organisation of such events for members of the wheels, the organisation of festivals and festivals. In fact, this directory is very wide. As I said, the only limitation is that these funds must be used to achieve the statutory objectives. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u91	Thank you very much. The additional question is asked by Mrs Teresa Pamuła. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u92	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you so much for the information we've heard. First of all, I would like to thank all the ladies from the rural hostels' circles throughout Poland, especially those who helped the Ukrainians during the war and continued to help them. These ladies and gentlemen were serving at the border for 24 hours, delivering, taking refugees, women and children into their homes. These ladies have also prepared meals and have taken care of these families so far. Thank you very much for this commitment to all the wheels, especially the wheels from the district of Lubaczowski, from Horyniec-Zdrój, Lubaczów, Oleszyc. Minister! I would also like to ask what funds are still available this year, on a yearly basis (the bell) for rural hostels' circles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u93	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Ms Anna Gembicka, will reply again. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u94	As far as the financial assistance for this year is concerned, this is PLN 70 million. Taking this opportunity, I would also like to join in with the thanks that you have given, because really ladies and gentlemen from the circles of rural hostels can be counted in any situation. Earlier, as the Member said, it was an engagement. it is in the activities related to the pandemic of Coronavirus, whether it's massage sewing, whether it's engaging in the promotion of vaccination. Now, for some time now, it is helping refugees from Ukraine and actually, it really is a huge commitment, for which we also warmly thank you. Let me just add that financial support for the rural hostess groups will, of course, continue in the years to come. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u95	Thank you very much, Minister. This question concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Current information. I would like to remind you that information on the potential and development of offshore wind energy in Poland, including the process of granting permits for the construction and use of artificial islands, structures and equipment in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Poland, which was requested by the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, will be discussed at this meeting. I would also remind you that the statement of reasons for the proposal by the Member of the representative of the applicants may not last more than 5 minutes and that the reply by the representative of the Council of Ministers may be longer than 10 minutes. Members' speeches in the discussion may not last more than 2 minutes. At the end of the discussion, a representative of the applicants and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall speak. An applicant's representative may not be heard for more than 5 minutes and a representative of the Council of Ministers shall be heard for more than 10 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may give his consent to the extension of the speech of a representative of the Council of Ministers. Time allowed for consideration of the point: The current information must not be longer than 90 minutes. Now please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Marek Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u96	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I have the honour to present a justification for the request of the Law and Justice Club to invest in wind farms at sea. Ladies and gentlemen! Changes in the energy sector are moving very dynamically towards renewable energy. This is a need, this is a trend, but this is also a necessary modernisation of the energy economy not only of Poland, but also of Europe and, hopefully, of the whole world. Meeting the requirements and reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 is a task for the entire economy of our country and at the same time a strong investment and economic boost. Port development, component production, access to clean CO-free energy The development of the offshore wind energy sector is one of the main directions today, resulting in a significant increase in the capacity installed in RES, thus ensuring an increase in energy supply. This will strengthen the energy security of our Poland. The energy potential of the Baltic Sea is estimated to be up to 93 GW. It's a huge amount of clean, carbon-free energy, a natural resource that we're going to use effectively. Poland, together with the other Baltic countries, has a chance to become a hub for offshore wind power in the Baltic Sea region. In the longer term, Poland has the potential to become a global hub for Europe, for Central Europe, for the production of tomorrow's hydrogen fuel. By 2025 at the latest, the Baltic States will disconnect from the BRELL system and thus the imports of electricity from Russia and Belarus will cease. The investments undertaken will satisfy the electricity deficit on the local market not only in Poland but also in our neighbouring, friendly countries. Poland is the second signatory of a sectoral agreement in Europe after the United Kingdom, which consists in concluding agreements between key stakeholders in the offshore wind farm sector - these are representatives of governments, companies, the entire supply chain of many industries - agreements to support the development of offshore wind energy, including local suppliers, and the creation of a local supply chain. The current information aims to present the state of preparation, threats and benefits of Polish investments in offshore wind energy. We want the public to be informed about the course of wind investment in Poland due also to concerns about energy security related to Russia's war with Ukraine, Europe, as well as Poland, because it is also part of the war with Poland. We also want to dispel any doubts, overthrow lies and talk about alleged stopping wind investment in Poland. I firmly believe that, at least sitting in the Chamber, the debate on the development of renewable energy is informed about how important and good it is to develop offshore wind energy. In public space there are many speeches, false, half-truths, malices. I think today's debate will make our society aware of that. I don't think I can convince you, because as an opposition, you always find something that is... [[Well, we know better.]] [[That's what you think.]] Yes. Well, you always know better, although this knowledge, as we remember, was a result of Russian energy dependence and investment retention, for example, in wind energy. But I hope that today this debate will bring us closer to a real assessment of the situation. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u97	Thank you very much. Now please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Mr Ireneus profit.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u98	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice! At the initiative of the state today, an important debate is being held in the context of current information on the development of the new economic sector, including Poland. It is a global economy, a very innovative sector that will help develop many new technologies, and will create many thousands of well-paid jobs. Poland has huge potential in this area to be a market leader in Central and Eastern Europe. Marine wind energy is a key element of the Polish energy strategy. Both the strategic paper, which is Poland's energy policy up to 2040 and the National Energy and Climate Plan 2021-2030, identifies the essence of the development of the offshore wind energy sector, which determines the achievement of the planned increase in the use of renewable energy sources in Poland. As we know, this is one of the technologies that can increase the share of RES in the national energy mix. It is certainly very important - it is also an object of our interest, also with regard to our actions, which will soon be presented in subsequent legislative proposals - wind energy on land, as well as photovoltaics, biogas, bio-methane, biomass, water energy, both small and pumped power plants. There is also a very important element related to energy, but also to system heating, i.e. geothermals, deep geothermals, where there are geological conditions, and in Poland they occur. It is also about shallow geothermals, so called. heat pumps, which in general use can lead to the independence of households in Poland, but also public utilities from heating based on fossil fuels. The Ministry of Climate and Environment has taken a number of steps to launch the construction of offshore wind farms in the Polish economic zone of the Baltic Sea. We have provided the right conditions for the development of this sector. On 17 December 2020, the Sejm adopted a law on the promotion of electricity generation in offshore wind farms, so-called. offshore elevator bill. The Act is important not only for the energy sector, but also more widely - for the development of the entire Polish economy, in particular for the recovery of the economy after the pandemic also during attempts to destabilise the energy market related to the energy blackmail caused by Russia and the war in Ukraine. The offshore wind law has simplified the investment process in the context of administrative proceedings and the first offshore wind farms are already in the final stage of environmental decisions and building permits. The introduction of energy from offshore wind farms into the grid will take place in 2026. The most important element is a separate support system based on the tried-out concept of a bilateral differential contract under Polish economic conditions, which is successfully used in the case of a functioning support system for RES. Electricity generators in offshore wind farms, who will be admitted to the State aid scheme, will be entitled to cover the so-called. a negative balance. In practice, this means covering the difference between the market price of energy and the price that allows generators to cover the cost of generating energy at sea. In the first phase, which ended on 30 June 2021 - it was the deadline for administrative decisions to grant public aid by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office - the conditions for projects with a total installed capacity of 5.9 were issued. GW. These projects, in line with Poland's energy policy, should be implemented, connected and should start generating energy by 2030. The next step is so-called. auctions. Two auctions will be conducted in the auction system - in 2025 and in 2027 - under which it will be contracted at 2.5 GW of capacity respectively. In total, up to 2040 we should have 11 GW of power from offshore wind farms according to the assumptions adopted in Poland's energy policy. The potential for the Polish Baltic Sea area is much greater. At the moment, both the Ministry of Infrastructure, with which the Ministry of Climate and Environment cooperates closely in this area, as well as the Ministry of Climate and Environment, as well as the independent organisations that they have set up, let's call it, the expert group, will analyse the potential for investments in the Polish economic zone of the Baltic, taking into account all important economic aspects, i.e. maritime transport, fisheries, defence, safety, environmental protection and all elements that must be preserved and protected. If we could remove all these elements... It is about where and under what conditions we can implement investment projects concerning Polish wind farms. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be said that Poland has the best conditions for offshore wind energy in the Baltic Sea. First of all, we need to mention the relatively shallow waters of the Baltic Sea, good geology of the bottom of the Baltic Sea in our economic zone and excellent wind conditions. Over the past few years, and even longer, since 2012, very thorough studies have been carried out on windiness in the Baltic Sea. This windiness is on an excellent level. Practically 90% of the time during the year there are excellent wind conditions that can ensure the sustainable operation of offshore wind power plants, which will generate electricity for the national electricity system. March 29th this year. The Council of Ministers adopted assumptions to update Poland's energy policy. Based on the records of this important document, we will verify the share of RES in the system and the share in RES, i.e. renewable energy sources, offshore wind farms, which have the chance to achieve a greater priority. Ladies and gentlemen, by 2040 - I personally believe that this will happen earlier, perhaps already in 2030, maybe in 2032 - the national share of RES in the energy mix will be 50% gross energy consumption. This is also related to the power installed in all technologies that will actually exceed 50 GW. This is not only about offshore wind energy, but also about technologies that I mentioned earlier, which will be used on land. I ask you, an integral part of the creation of investments in offshore wind farms in Poland is the provision of a chain of supplies of materials and services, which is part of non-legislative activities. Therefore, on the initiative of the Ministry of Climate and Environment - I also have my humble contribution as a representative of the government for renewable energy sources - 15 September 2021, the second sector agreement for the development of offshore wind energy in Poland was concluded in the world after the UK. This is what President Marek Suski has already talked about. This is an extremely important initiative appreciated by all levels around the world, by the European Commission and the European Union's agenda. Congratulations. We have also recently been modelled on by France, which has signed a similar sectoral agreement in recent weeks. The most important idea behind this initiative is to increase the participation of local content, understood as a Polish contribution. From technology to implementation, commercialization to investments by Polish companies... After 2030, we would like to see the participation of Polish local content in this great industry of more than 50%. Let me remind you that Britain, which is the world leader in this area, started at 20%. She's over 50% at the moment. We want to model ourselves on the best in the world, but realize added value for the Polish economy. There is a huge opportunity for this, as already more than 100 Polish companies are working on the implementation of offshore wind energy projects all over the world. It is high time that this potential materialized in Polish economic conditions. Maritime wind energy is an opportunity to develop and build ports, install service ports, entire fleet of ships, installation ships, maintenance ships. This is a great opportunity for entities that will operate not only in Pomerania, but also throughout the country. We need cables, power extraction. It is also about Polish steel mills, which can produce steel for the construction of towers and (The Bell) entire components related to offshore wind forms. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to... [[You're already a marshal.]] [[There's been a change.]] Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to say that the design of offshore wind farms has a huge impact on the generation capacity structure in energy in the coming decades. This important sector of the Polish economy is also connected with the development of the hydrogen economy, as it is the offshore wind energy that will be the main production force for so-called. green hydrogen, which will feed Polish transport, energy, heating and industry in many technologies.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u99	Thank you. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: The government of the Republic of Poland, the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki will strive to ensure the best possible conditions for the development of projects and the offshore wind energy sector. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. It wasn't enough time for Minister Mark Grabarczyk. I would like to inform you that Members of the debate have come forward. Would any of you and your fellow Members still like to speak? I'm closing the list of speakers. I'm opening a discussion. Before I ask the first person, I would like to warmly welcome the students and teachers of the Ostróda Agricultural Schools, who have arrived at the invitation of Mr Zbigniew Babalski. Welcome. [[Applause]] Let's get back to the discussion. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u100	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Psychological dislike for renewable energy sources in Poles has been broken. [[At the PiS. You're the ones who killed the wind energy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u101	Mrs...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u102	I would like to say that the psychological dislike of Poles to wind energy has been broken, and it has been broken by my author's program ŻMy electricity. [[Applause]] [[Bravo! Exactly.]] Where before that... If you really want me to say it, I'm saying it. Previously, 50,000 were built in Poland in 3 years. Prosumer installations, and in the next 3 years we have exceeded a million prosumer installations at the moment. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I would like to say that this programme, my own programme, has gained very much recognition in the European Union. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] [[You'll have time to speak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u103	Ladies and gentlemen! Each of you will be able to speak if you have signed up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u104	Ladies and gentlemen! This programme has gained great recognition in the European Commission, because the European Commission has awarded a billion zlotys, in zlotys, to support this programme, considering it to be one of the best in Europe. But I'm going to wind power. It is an emerging sector of the economy, and in the past an important aspect of Polish industry. It is a modern direction for the development of renewable energy sources and the economic future of our country, which not only can provide new jobs, but also stability of energy supply for our citizens. I would like to stress that the Government of the Republic of Poland has done a very difficult job just to indicate the spatial planning of the sea: hard discussions with coastal authorities to determine where such islands can be built, where these windmills can be built, where it will not interfere with the shoals of electricity, etc. This has been done (The Bell) and we have now gained this opportunity that we can take this action, which is extremely needed for our economy. Therefore, Minister, I have a question: What sectors of the economy will benefit from the development of the economy, the development of offshore wind energy?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u105	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u106	How much will Poland's economy gain? How many new jobs can be created? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u107	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u108	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Is the pilot coming with us? [[Tusk's gone.]] I'd like to know what the timing of wind farms entering and power from the wind will look like, but at the same time, it will come down from coal. Is there such a schedule? I put it on Google, I search, I search, there isn't. [[Applause]] There's no schedule. Tell me what it's gonna be like now. Of course, we have a dramatic situation. Steel to build towers at sea was supposed to be from Mariupola. Do we have any other delivery directions? 'Cause we know we're not gonna get that steel from there. Please also say one very important thing. Here they report to the OSD companies who want to join the OZO-we farms or any OZO-we installations. So? They get such information that there will be no connection, because there are reserved power in offshore networks, for windmills. That's right now, isn't it? Those companies that are already ready to give cheap electricity, OZO's power to the grid, they're stopped and we wait, we wait, we wait. How long do we wait and just what will this replacement look like? Here's an example of ZE PAK. ZE PAK signed an agreement with Årsted, a Danish company, and this is a partner of many Polish companies in the construction of wind farms. PAK will start the auction in 2025-2027, and will build in some time, which we do not see in the schedule, but will close 480 MW of the boiler earlier, relatively modern, on 31 December 2024. So we're gonna have a loophole. The gaps that are dangerous in the supply of energy, and unfortunately more dangerous, because since 2025, if there is no market (the bell) of power, there will be a shortage of 10,000. MW in the system. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u109	Thank you very much. Mrs Beata Maciejewska, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u110	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased that Mr Tchórzewski presented himself to me, who is responsible for the construction of Ostrołęka. [[We're happy too.]] For the fact that it was opened in 2018 and was undressed in 2021. We remember Minister Tchórzewski, who then counted really progress in the Polish energy industry with coal-burning cars in this power plant. So that I am glad, Minister Tchórzewski, that you are saying something completely different today and that your psychological dislike for RES has been defeated. I don't think it is. I think that your formation still has this psychological dislike for RES, because you can see it after the last changes, for example. It's about photovoltaics. [[Applause]] The point is also that we still do not have a law in the Sejm concerning wind on land, even though it is already in your strategy, the Polish energy strategy until 2040. When this term of office of the Sejm began, it was said in the ministries that this law was at its conclusion. It was over two years ago, and there's still no law. [[It's a ghost act.]] It's said that the government is working on her, that she's supposed to be in June, but she's not here. And this energy policy is such a thrush, I mean, some things can be done, but others can't. There were also questions I would like, Minister Gaina, to mention, to emphasize, for example. questions about transmission networks. It is known that these investments are missing. Are we building wind farms or are we preparing for this, and what are the investments in transmission networks? So what, this wind's gonna be blowing up there on the Baltic Sea (The Bell) and we're gonna watch the windmills roll beautifully? These are also questions about complementary research programmes, for example as regards green hydrogen, which was mentioned here. It's about some kind of coherent program. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u111	Thank you, Member. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u112	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In 2026 the first offshore wind farms will be built. Well, congratulations on your well-being, because in 2016 one law killed wind farms also in my Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, you stopped development in respect of new windmills, also this activity carried out not only by large companies, but also by smaller consumers. There was no vacathio legis, and so many investors were practically finished with windmills already in their fields, only the last assembly elements were missing. This industry has actually been turned upside down. Now you're talking about the fact that we're going to have energy, you're talking about a wonderful vision, but Poland needs energy now, because we have a problem with rising prices, we have a problem with gas supply as well as other fuels. The basic question is therefore: What is the direction in which investments in renewable energy are to be made at the moment? You've been hitting photovoltaics recently, and you'd kill the industry completely, because there was a bill that was going to do it. Now we hear it's going to be beautiful and wonderful. This would have been the case if it hadn't been for your 2016 law, and now it takes many, many years to rebuild it. And we won't be able to do it as soon as you think. However, I have first of all a question about the task which the inhabitants of Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship asked me about. What about the compensations for those farms that you took out or weren't brought to an end? Because you are responsible for the large millions lost by Polish investors - not German, not Spanish, not French, only Polish, it is very important, also in your districts. [[Applause]] [[Are you sure? Check it out.]] Good. Besides, you're talking about the fact that we should develop the transmission lines - the question has already been asked here. Indeed, they should be expanded and I hope that such investments will also be carried out. But there's one more, one last, very important element. Is there also (the bell) in all these plans for the disposal of these large installations afterwards? In what direction? Is it gonna go then? The point is, we're not gonna stay with these butterflies on the Baltic. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u113	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tchórzewski asked for the floor in the correction procedure - he was indeed mentioned by name. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u114	Thank you, Marshal. I'm not gonna tell you what happened... [[Voice from the room: Ostrołęka.]] ...and why it stood in the place of renewable energy, photovoltaics, and why it developed. That's what you all know. I'm not gonna say it again. On the other hand, with regard to Ostrołęka, I would like to make it clear that the construction of a coal power plant in Ostrołęka as the most modern in Europe, with only 14.5% higher emissions. in relation to gas power plants, it has been accepted by the European Commission. The European Commission has accepted public aid for this power plant until 2035 amounting to 2700 million. This power plant was also intended to be a reserve for energy from Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia, which has been cut off from Russian energy since the end of 1995. So that's what the bell looks like. If some things are accelerated, they also cost money. And this acceleration right now costs money. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u115	Thank you very much, sir. Mr... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Then who tore it down?]] I kindly ask you to remain silent. [[Then why did you tear it down?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u116	This is a matter of European Union policy, and I wanted to make it clear. There's been an acceleration here. There was an agreement signed by Poland, 1990...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u117	Mr President, you have already exhausted your mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u118	...and there's been a change. Acceleration by 2042 caused this. [[Applause]] [[Did the Union tell you to tear it down?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u119	Thank you very much, sir. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u120	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I remember 2016. This was the point where a process led by Law and Justice for many years ended, the process of disgusting Poles with renewable energy sources. Let me remind you, it ended with the fact that the ready-made windmills, which were supposed to supply energy, were simply leveled to the ground by one law carried out in almost 24 hours. There's no... [[What kind of nonsense do you say?]] ...I see that there are no Members of the Law and Justice here who then almost ripped their robes apart over the fact that this law must be adopted. Well, at least they behaved decently enough not to try to turn the cat's tail today. But the fault of Law and Justice is that energy flowing from people, prosumer energy was stopped at this stage in 2016. Then you disgusted the Poles with wind energy. Today you're trying to brag about wind energy. [[Yeah, yeah. In every voivodship, the population protested.]] Of course it is, it was a negative action from the point of view of energy security of Poles. You've stopped the development of private, small installations, working for industrial installations that run state-owned hoods. In fact, in a dozen or so years, such a policy will have its revenge. I have a question for the Minister, because this area of civic energy, prosumer, is extremely important. Minister, the primary barrier is the power grids, the last mile. When will the government finally decide to allocate large funds to stretch this narrow throat? Because today the real blockade of energy development not only wind, but also flowing from water and from the sun (the Bell) is the inefficient energy networks. Minister, when are you gonna end up with this infirmity? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u121	Thank you. Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u122	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Strengthening Poland's energy security, ensuring continuity of energy supply is a key task of the state's energy policy, which the Government of Law and Justice consistently pursues. As is important, it clearly shows the situation of the war waged by Russia in Ukraine and from an energy perspective also across Europe. Marine wind energy is the future, as well as a huge opportunity in the context of sustainable development, which we will not miss. The measures initiating the construction of wind farms in the Baltic have already been taken. According to experts, this is the best place to get offshore energy to set up wind farms. The Minister said that the total capacity installed in wind power plants by 2030 would be 5.9 GW. Minister! We have just heard from the opposition Members once again, not the first, not the most significant: we cannot. I have a polite request to the Minister for an answer to the question of whether it is possible. Are the objectives to be achieved and the timetable for their implementation? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u123	Thank you, Member. Mr Paweł Pontylius, Civic Coalition. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u124	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We haven't really learned anything else from your information... [[Your hand out of your pocket, sir.]] ...than you can read in one article of the trade portal HighNapiecie.pl. It was all written there. I wonder if you just printed yourself this article and didn't give it to us, but it certainly wasn't the ministry's information. The second thing is this. I would like to remind you that since 2016, you have been killing wind energy, and in fact the first date you pointed out is December 17, 2020, which clearly confirms that you have been against any wind energy for four years, and in no way have you ever intended for anything to happen. [[Applause]] There is one more thing that needs to be said, namely what is happening today. For more than a year there have been 11 locations indicated, we see magic over these locations, delaying the decision. Why? Well, because Mr. Obajtka's concern, Orlen, applied for those 11 locations. But the problem is that they also influenced various kinds of offers from the market and we need to think about how to do it again so that for this Obietka there is another monopoly. That, unfortunately, is the way to settle this. But there's a worse thing, and that's a question for you, Minister, if that's what you think. The worse thing is that today companies of the State Treasury, which would build, are really just types of speculators, i.e. they are to take these locations from the government, and then they have to hire industry companies to build these windmills or entire wind farms, and in fact any such investment will be only more expensive, which will translate into more expensive electricity from these installations for the customer, for the consumer. Why? Because Årsted or Ocean Wind will still take its own for the construction of these wind power plants (the bell), and Orlen or PGE will add to it its mark-up for the operation of the project, with absolutely nothing to do with it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u125	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u126	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent years, it is clear that the government's desire to completely liquidate energy companies, about private power plants generating electricity from wind energy, not to mention. Many regulations 100% it has stopped investment in this direction, and already existing power plants are facing huge problems in terms of energy collection, sales and obtaining money for it. Wind energy has been monopolized by large companies. No small private entity will receive a concession, and all the more so will not build an island in the Baltic. Why did the government exclude cheap wind energy from land and turn to much more expensive seawaters? This affects the increase in the price of electricity produced, which today needs to be made clear to Poles, and this undermines confidence in wind energy. Taking advantage of the fact that I am here, I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for explaining that it is the European Union that is to blame for throwing 2 billion PLN into the mud in Ostrołęka. [[Yes, of course.]] Thank you very much. Until now, I was convinced that Tusk was behind it. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, yeah.]] The fact that the European Union is behind this is a new quality today. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u127	Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u128	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! What are we discussing? We're in the middle of 2022, and we're talking about 2026. Today we have a price drama about electricity, because the nearest contracts already include 1 000. PLN per MWh. So there's drama, drama for entrepreneurs, drama for people. Eight years have been lost, you've blocked it, and today you're declaring success. [[Yeah, eight years.]] Eight years have been lost in terms of renewable energy. And those who did it today collect cream in the European Union. [[Applause]] They are not really here because they are in the European Union. [[Your eight years have been lost, you're right.]] So think about it. There's potential ready. 200 zlotys of windmills on land. Do something, for God's sake. Help the Poles. Don't promise 2026 and 2030 because today you need cheap electricity. 200 PLN at 1000 PLN per MWh of coal. And here's the drama. And you're always looking for something, you've been crawling around for eight years. 2016 - 7 years passed. What did you do about the windmills? Nothing. And today you say that windmills are this bright future that they'll give us cheap electricity. That's not true. We will not live to see 2026 and Polish companies will not live to see the price of energy. Today, there are a lot of people willing to invest when it comes to photovoltaics, they want to build for themselves, they want to use this power. And the state says no, you will not produce. That's the host's approach? That's not the way to do it. Do something to let people use cheap power. There's no need for transmission lines. Even if they are needed, companies are able to build them. And you say: no, you won't, because there is a state monopoly and only a monopoly can produce and manage electricity, and Poles (The Bell) and Polish companies are to pay for it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u129	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u130	Minister! When are you gonna unlock the windmills on land? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u131	Mrs Anna April, Law and Justice. I ask you to stick to your time, because all of you are not going to speak, because I will have to speak at an hour. 12.35 end the debate. [[Voice from the room: 45.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u132	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! There are many statements here that have nothing to do with the truth, the reality. I would like to ask the Minister, firstly, whether we have achieved the EU's target for RES production and what the Union has set for us and how much electricity we produce under RES. I also wanted to ask you about this million photovoltaic installations. When were we supposed to reach that number, what year? Is it true that it was designated 2030? This is the first case. Another thing - an issue related to investment in energy networks. Is it true that from 2016 to 2020 the investments made by operators were at the level of PLN 37 billion? Is it also true that the President of the Energy Regulatory Office approved the plan to spend 52 billion in investments in energy networks by 2025? One more thing - the issue of offshore wind farms. They require very high investment, and I am afraid that the costs of components and raw materials are increasing greatly due to the war and the disruption of supply chains. I wanted to ask if there would be sufficient support for (the bell) investors in the implementation of the investment. Will the investors not change their minds...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u133	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u134	...against rising construction costs? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u135	Mr Marek Owa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u136	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I would like to believe in this declaration that PiS-owska's dislike for RES has been broken, but listening to the statements of the Members and Members of the PiS, there are doubts. [[It's your phobia.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Before we are an energy hub for the whole of Europe, a market leader in Central and Eastern Europe and we will exploit all the potential of the Baltic Sea, I would like to ask you a few questions. The first question will be on the topics and projects that have been written down in the National Reconstruction Plan. The development of offshore wind energy was allocated in KPO 3687 million EUR, i.e. about 17 billion PLN, for two tasks. In the grant part, it is EUR 437 billion for investments related to the purification of the bottom of the Baltic Sea. The result is - the justification there is very interesting, slightly different from what the Minister said, and the document is from last year, also from May - among others. commissioning of the offshore installation terminal in the fourth quarter of 2024 and offshore service terminals with permission to operate in the third quarter of 2026. You have only changed the location of the ports for a year, because Gdansk will be instead of Gdynia. A few questions: At what stage is this task accomplished? Who's really doing it? What is the level of work progress if any work has been started for a year at all? The second issue concerns the construction of offshore wind farms. There's 3250 million euros. Who is carrying out these tasks? Have these loans been launched yet? Because the KPO does not exist, but we know that the funds are eligible, so I understand that the State (the Bell) carry out these tasks. I'm asking for an answer. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u137	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u138	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, At the outset of the information you provided, you informed the High House that the government would present legislative initiatives on, among other things, in the near future. wind energy on land. In this case, during the parliamentary shifts and talks with local government officials, there is a very important problem and expectation related to this new law. Wójt gminy Dominowo w powiat Średzkim w Wielkopolska writes: From the point of view of the municipalities understood as a collection of population groups in a given area, it is more important to provide opportunities for housing development, which in the case of some municipalities such as Dominowo is drastically limited and in key locations. It should be underlined that these restrictions result from the construction of turbines which were authorised to build before the entry into force of the Wind Power Act. Thus, it was impossible to determine their impact on the environment to the extent that it presented a later windmill law. In addition, this law ignored local land-use plans previously adopted under wind farms in order to ensure adequate distances from housing sites. The uncle asks dramatically, because it is a matter of development of the local community, when we can expect an amendment of the windmill law which is important for the development of the housing sector to enter into force. I ask the Minister to answer in writing, because that is also what the local government expects, especially as regards the deadline for this government law to be sent to Parliament, to work on it and then to adopt it. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u139	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Andrzej Grzyb, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u140	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I fully confirm what Mr Tomaszewski said. For self-government it is to unlock the possibility of housing in the shadow of these 10H high wind masts. In response to the interpellation of last year, I had information that in autumn 2021 there would be a new law on spatial planning. The case is not settled, it requires a government response. Today, the wind gives almost 6200 MW and it comes from energy on land, almost 10,000. including photovoltaics, i.e. this is a serious potential - 22,000. the power which is currently being used. I would like to ask you the following question, because on 18 May a new draft RES directive will probably be presented, in which the share of RES increases from 32% to 40%. Will these goals meet these expectations for the new Member States? Secondly, installations up to 150 kW are expected to be authorised for up to 6 months. Yesterday I had the opportunity to meet people here who design these installations and want to invest. Some people wait two years to get permission to install 150 kW and want to use energy for their own use only. Minister, I think this should be fixed. It cannot be that an entrepreneur who has a dryer and wants to use this energy from photovoltaics for his own use must wait 2 years for consent, for conditions of connection to energy. I think that's our job together. Here's another thing. Does the government provide for the definition of simplified areas where environmental impacts may be, so to speak, a reason for a summary issue... [[♪ The bell ♪]] both on land and at sea, new installations...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u141	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u142	...because this is in line with this new draft law, the RES directive? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u143	Mr Jan Warzecha, Law and Justice. You're welcome. Once again, I ask you to stick to your time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u144	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The development of offshore wind energy in the Baltic Sea is crucial from the point of view of the Polish state energy by 2040. The offshore law implemented at the beginning of 2021 laid the foundations for the development of offshore wind farms, regulates how investors interested in the construction of offshore wind farms in the Polish Baltic Sea economic zone obtain public support. The fact that PGE and PKN Orlen together with the Polish Development Fund is expected to implement 60% planned offshore investments. However, the construction of an installation terminal and service terminals is a prerequisite for the development of offshore wind energy in Poland. Today, such terminals near locations where offshore wind farms can be built are not available. Minister, what is the investment process in these ports at the moment? Has the location been selected yet? How we want to ensure the largest participation of Polish companies, so-called. Local content, in the supply chain? I would also like you, Minister, to repeat once again to all the Members of the opposition, who are to blame for the fact that there was no modern, low-emission coal power plant in Ostrołęka. What forces, what people, who's really responsible for this? Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the Chamber: European Union.]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u145	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u146	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, wind, sea and land farms must be developed. And both are very important (Applause), especially in the face of the present war and in the face of our climate, which is getting worse and worse. I do not need to explain to you how important renewable energy sources are for our country. The question, on the other hand, is to the Minister of Profit. You said that by 2026 you were planning to build offshore wind power plants. Sir, you don't have the slightest chance of implementing them by this year, because the bill itself doesn't build. In addition to the construction of the windmills themselves, we need to get ships to operate them, train workers, expand the ports serving farms, build wind power stations, artificial islands, ladies. In addition to the fact that this electricity will be produced, this electricity needs to be delivered to the grid, which means that we still need to build a whole energy network on the bottom of the sea. None of what I'm talking about is started. That's not gonna happen. As Mr Kasprzak said earlier - I agree - it is necessary to unblock the implementation of land-based wind farms as soon as possible. Let me remind you that we have committed ourselves in the European Union to producing 27% by 2030. energy from renewable sources. Right now we have 15-16%. So it's gonna be really hard. As a platform... [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u147	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u148	Wait a minute. You've been prolonging others.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u149	No, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u150	Yes. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Time!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u151	Thank you very much. That's not the kind of discussion we're going to have. Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u152	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Seym! In 2002, as Secretary of State in the Treasury Ministry at the presidency meeting, I pointed out that Polish energy networks would be inefficient. At the time, the industry was more energy-intensive, but fewer plants worked. Today, it's all multiplied because we're developing. It's been 20 years since then, and no government... Then the Left Government took over a huge budget deficit and there were no EU funds, so we couldn't do it, but then there were EU funds. I'm talking to all the governments that were then, including the Platform and the PSL, that we've neglected at least 15 years in this case, all of them. It's easy to blame on others, but we all screwed up. Now the question is how to make up for it. The main problem is the networks, no connections. Smaller, smaller power plants, which could be built, do not arise, because the government is wrestling to join, for example. Photovoltaics or wind energy. But for this reason I have a question: Isn't it worth speeding up? How much would it cost to renew these networks faster? Second question: Isn't it worthwhile to involve private funds in these connections and then buy them back - a bit like from Dizm¿ - through the State Treasury, already paying off the funds of exploitation? This can cause us to unblock these investments when it comes to windmills on land, which can create many photovoltaic farms, and this can accelerate the emergence of certain elements needed by our energy industry. Is it possible to use private funds and later redeem it as a national bell? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u153	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. There isn't. Mr Waldemar Andzel, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u154	Mrs. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! The development of offshore wind energy in Poland is very important for the rule of law and justice as opposed to previous PO-PSL governments. The economic situation of ST3 Offshore in Szczecin has been difficult for many years. The investment, which, under the Civic Platform, controlled by the Industrial Development Agency, MARS, together with the German Bilfinger, has spent about PLN 500 million, has been causing significant losses for several years. Who is responsible for the current state of the company? Who decided to locate the investment so far away from the sea and the parameters inadequate to market demand? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u155	Thank you, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u156	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! Poles are sick of your gas and energy hubs. They're sick of it. [[Voice from the room: Yes! The Poles have had enough.]] Today, tragedies and dramas will be experienced even greater. Today, wholesale electricity prices are almost 1 000. PLN per MWh. That's not in history yet. In a year's time, the price of electricity will go up at least twice. That's what the Poles are talking about. Coal prices today... Let's not talk about prices, because coal is not available at all. The average resident can't get that coal. [[You don't want to...]] [[Voice from the hall: You shot at the miners.]] Today in Polish ports 1 t of coal imported from Colombia costs 1900 PLN net. How can a Polish retired woman buy 1 tonne of coal for a pension of 1,200 PLN? And what about the next months, the winter months? You're talking about my power program. It's such a great show. It's a good show. You're the only ones who can't make it happen. [[Applause]] [[Very good!]] [[Voice from the room: Like 500+!]] You urged Poles to build photovoltaics for their money. They've started. At first, you paid them $5,000. PLN for the program, later - 3 thousand. zł, and now 130,000. The prosumers are waiting for the 3,000. zł. Minister! There's a program. 3.0, you've already started the program. 4.0, and these people still haven't gotten the money. [[Applause]] Is that how you operate? Is that how you guys do it? I have a question, Minister, because with this photovoltaics and the show, you said everything was going great. Just what? We're just missing the net. That's what I'm asking you, sir, if you've also secured the construction of the grid for this wind energy at sea... [[Voice from the room: How many networks did you build?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u157	Thank you, sir. Mrs Wanda Nowicka, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u158	...or you'll say we can't run it again. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u159	Thank you very much, sir. Member, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u160	Minister! I would listen to what you were talking about - this wonderful programme to restore wind energy - with great pleasure and hope, if not for the fact that this programme lacks the most important, namely credibility. Because like the party that murdered wind energy in 2016 in Poland (Applause), now it can promise us like pear on willow that in a few years it will create such a program. This, of course, reminds us of all the PowerPoints that the Prime Minister regularly feeds us, and it turns out that these programmes are not being implemented. I'm saying this with great sadness because I would like it to be realized, even though I don't know why it's so late. Why wasn't it until 2026? Speaking of your credibility, please forgive the comparison, it is a bit like the PiS, which introduced a ban on abortion for women, now suddenly came up with a law on the liberalisation of abortion in Poland. That's your credibility on the subject. [[Voice from the room: But we will not perform.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to ask you very seriously: why is all this going to take so long? Is this supposed to be one of those programs that each of us gets in touch with at committee meetings or in another area where you work? You guys are still making some programs and making some laws. [[Voice from the room: No, we are realizing.]] It's all going on and on, and it's either not happening at all, or if it comes in, it's all changing. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Capital, cover yourself. Right away, from hour to hour. Capital, cover yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u161	Thank you very much. Katarzyna Czochara, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u162	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Growing electricity prices, the need to save the climate, the war in Ukraine makes Europe turn towards renewable energy. Marine wind power plants are particularly important. Sea farms allow huge power generation using undeveloped energy to date. The first Polish wind farms were granted permission to build and use artificial islands in Polish maritime areas in 2012-2013. Why was it only in the rule of law and justice that this important offshore wind sector could actually develop? What were the obstacles previously to the implementation of the projects? I still have some time, so I would like to address the question of credibility that was just mentioned. However, your credibility can be summed up: both the Left governments and the Civic Platform governments - you said one thing... [[Voice from the hall: You didn't hear what we said...]] You said, this is what Prime Minister Tusk was talking about, that there will be no VAT raised. What happened when the Platform gained power? VAT raised. You got everything you could, you sold the national treasure, and today you're talking about credibility. [[Kasia, don't tell me everything you know.]] If I were you, I'd shut up. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u163	Thank you, Member. Mrs Mirosława Nykiel, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u164	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before I move on to this great plan related to offshore wind energy, I want to ask why the government, which should help Poles, makes it so difficult to invest in wind and photovoltaic energy. [[It helps all the time. It helps.]] There have already been many examples today, mostly about the 10H distance bill, which you have been trying to fix for so long. But where is she? Answer the Minister at what stage? Business and Poles are waiting for this. [[We're talking about...]] As the Poles started investing in photovoltaics, you quickly managed to make changes that worsened the conditions of investment and thus made investments of Poles, now that the electricity is so expensive. [[Voice from the room: Old...]] And going to wind power at sea... [[Voice from the room: Why should there be electricity in Poland when it is in Germany.]] By 2040, it's going to be 20%. all installed power. It's a serious challenge. But this power needs to be brought from the north to the south, to the center, and it involves a huge investment effort, with a huge challenge for PSE. And I have a question: How do they prepare? It takes PLN 4.5 billion to build two power stations in Pomerania, these two-track power lines. How does PSE prepare for this? How does he prepare with his partners? Are you having conversations? Is there a dialogue with business? Is cooperation planned, starting with the government, through the regulator, the operators? Because it's all necessary. And the technology companies. Are you guys talking about all this, or is there gonna be a dialogue? [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] What exactly have you done, Minister? Because believe me, I've listened very carefully to you, but I haven't heard anything specific from your mouth. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u165	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u166	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today, at first, I wanted to wish all nurses, nurses, and midwives a warm welcome, because this is their holiday today. Happy birthday. You save lives every day. I hope that the government and everyone will always support you. [[Applause]] But I'm going back to today's topic of wind energy. Minister, the existing wind power plants are facing huge problems with energy consumption, sales or money acquisition. Private suppliers, if they are very lucky, sell the surplus they produce for part of the amounts for which they pay state monopolies much more during periods of their own production shortage. And the question to the Minister: Which energy is cheaper? The one obtained from the wind on land or at sea? Will building on an artificial island result in or may result in an increase in the costs that will ultimately be paid by the statistical customers of the house? And I would ask you to include in these costs all the investment costs of construction, on land and at sea. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u167	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Bartus, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u168	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! High Izbo! Russia's energy blackmail led to a sharp rise in energy prices across Europe. The Russian invasion of Ukraine has changed the way many fossil fuels are perceived and dependence on imports of these raw materials from Russia. Minister, will this speed up offshore projects? I would also like to address energy sources in general. I live on Gorlice land and as much evil as the government of the Civic Platform and PSL did at that time, when it comes to Polish energy, about Polish raw materials, nobody did. The entire oil mining industry in my territory has almost been wiped out. All the oil mines have been gradually decommissioned. My grandfather worked in a mine, my dad worked in an oil mine. Everyone saw the economy so much that we kept it connected with this extraction. [[Oil mine?]] Unfortunately, PGNiG has once decided to liquidate mining in those mines that have prospered and could continue to power the Polish economy into oil, because it is said that the extraction of Polish oil was not profitable. But going back to offshore wind power stations, I also wanted to ask the Minister whether the development of offshore wind energy will allow for a reduction in energy prices in the future. After all, we hear so much from the state how much money it takes to make this energy. That's how it's obtained. So my question is, will this really lead to lower energy prices if we eliminate the extraction of our fossils? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u169	Thank you very much. Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u170	Minister! Before there's a miracle expected at sea, I suggest you go ashore. As for the miracle, 2026 seems unrealistic, as does 2027 in the case of the Central Communication Port. And here's the first question to the Minister: How many monthly salaries will you put on the fact that the first current will actually flow in 2026? I'd appreciate it if you could tell me what kind of guarantee you'll give. [[In writing, in writing.]] Another thing. By the time these great things come, tens of thousands of Poles will be celebrating the anniversary of their application to the programme My electricity and expectations for the grant. You have a great, endless chance to tell me today when they finally get these grants. So much for the trust this woman's lodge was talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u171	Oh, Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u172	Another thing, much more important, much more important. The RES system requires energy storage. What have you done for six or seven years when it comes to storing energy in pumped power stations? I'll tell you. Six months ago, you set up a team. Bravo. But please note that all our six - all six, yes - pumped power plants can hold a total of 10 GWh of energy. Poland consumes statistically, on average in one day 500 GWh of energy, which is 2%. Minister, don't you feel like these big RES and energy storage projects should go together? What kind of guarantees do you give that the systems will be used, that we'll be able to store energy when there's too much energy? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u173	Thank you, sir. I would like to point out to you that this is not the way to address parliamentarians. I'm surprised the ladies on the other hand haven't expressed an outrage. Mrs Ewa Szymańska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u174	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! And I'm proud to be in the women's box too... [[Exactly, what's the matter with your marshal? I don't understand.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u175	Think about it yourself.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u176	...which doesn't mean that we women have to be distinguished in such a disrespectful way. [[Applause]] Two years ago, offshore wind energy was one of the topics of great interest during the Karpacz Economic Forum. During the panel discussion, very promising conclusions were drawn on its development. According to what the Minister said today and what was said in Karpacz, Poland can be a key market for the wind energy industry among the Baltic countries. This is an opportunity for companies from our country to develop and get new contracts also abroad. Therefore, I have a question: Do the staff of this sector have sufficient experience, knowledge and skills? Can our universities develop the right staff so that we do not have to use and rely on foreign experts? And I'll be back because I have a minute. It was said here that 2026 we would not live to see. Time flies fast. [[We're not gonna make it.]] [[I'll see to it.]] We will see and the Poles will see, so that we will be glad to see. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u177	Thank you, Member. Ms Katarzyna Lubnauer, Civic Coalition. At the same time, I would like to inform you that unfortunately we are approaching the end of the debate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u178	It's nice that we're trying to build farms at sea, but let's honestly say that the investment cost of energy from offshore farms is about two or three times the energy from land farms. Let me tell you more: networks need a lot more investment than if we decided on distributed energy at the moment we gather them in one place. Therefore, the basic question is not when this power plant will be built at sea, only when you unlock wind energy on land. [[Applause]] Let's notice one thing. Thanks to wind energy on land, we can build together with photovoltaics and gas energy the independence of municipalities. Such investments are achievable both for local governments and for individual investors. You prefer to give opportunities to large, preferably state-owned, corporations or even large corporations, instead of giving the opportunity to develop rural areas that can be placed on wind energy. [[But in the country, people don't want to. In the countryside, people protest against windmills.]] So I'm going to ask you a simple question: when are you going to unlock the wind energy on land? Because I remember the stupid ideological argument that Mrs. Zalewska is afraid that her windmill will fall on her head, that her windmill will fall on her head. [[And cows won't milk.]] I also remember the honest answer that once came out, that there were no substantive reasons for implementing the 10H bill. It is high time to cancel the 10H bill, it is high time to give the opportunity to develop wind energy on land. And one last question. From CO emissions
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u179	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u180	Cheap electricity for Poles. [[Why don't you have a windmill beside the block?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u181	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! My previous speaker said you have to build windmills, that people don't want to build. You know, give me the address, and we'll put it next to your place of residence, and then you'll see if society is very negative about such sources... [[Or positive.]] ...or positive. [[Applause]] But I will say - I listen to the statements of the State from the opposition - that I am glad that at last you, being in opposition, are beginning to believe your statements with this thesis: Poles say, we listen to Poles. What has happened, folks, that you can now listen so beautifully to the voices of Poles? But to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of renewable energy sources is undoubtedly growing rapidly and no one will discuss it. They will certainly play a very important role in the sustainable development of our country in the future. Renewable energy sources, i.e. marine energy, are a key element of the Polish energy strategy. As we had the opportunity to learn, listening to both the applicant's representative and the Minister, investment in wind farms is a priority for the coming decades, because it is these investments that give an opportunity to obtain clean and zero-emission energy. The Government of Law and Justice uses, please, in addition to the wise governance of the natural potential that is, in this case, the potential of the Baltic Sea. This is mainly due to favourable wind energy conditions, such as low salinity, relatively low depth (Dawn) or constant power supply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u183	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u184	I have a question, Minister: What happens when the wind farms in the Baltic Sea aren't blowing?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u185	Thank you. [[You wouldn't let me finish my sentence.]] Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u186	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! A PGE advertising campaign is underway, where we can see seals and terns enchanted by the green change. These spots are a classic example of greenwashing, or ecstasy. They show windmills that are not yet available, for which there are no solutions, how to put them, how to purify the bottom and how much it will cost. I would therefore like to ask about the total costs of this advertising campaign. The password of this manipulated campaign is: We are leading in a green change. What's the lead? The share of RES in the energy mix of Poland is 16% , we're in the 22nd place in the Union, and you're going to overwhelm yourself with these statistics, burning wood, cutting trees and including it in RES. So is that what it is to lead in green change, or to block the construction of new windmills on land, or to kill photovoltaics for private customers? Or does this green change lead to non-investment in the renovation of medium-voltage networks that are necessary for the development of photovoltaics? How about cutting out 120 hectares of forest to build a mythical electric car? Or on merely symbolic aid for heat pumps, on shrinkage of coal, until recently Russian coal? How about breathing through Poles and Poles the air of the worst quality in Europe? To treat forests like a board factory? Or maybe not using EU subsidies for a fair transformation, in which we are champions? Because if so, you should treat your ads with an appropriate explanation so as not to mislead the viewer again. Or is this green energy driving a lost dispute over the Turów power plant and that we have 70 million penalties to pay? I ask for specific data and an explanation of why the Treasury company is lying, simply. [[Applause]] [[The voice from the room: 'Cause he likes it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u187	Mrs Gabriela Masłowska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u188	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! The Ministry of Climate and Environment has launched quite extensive cooperation between government administration and representatives of various sectors for wind energy, but also other renewable energy sources. What is the purpose of such an initiative, and is it also taking place in other countries, because our knowledge shows that Poland is at the forefront here? Is Poland cooperating in the construction of offshore wind power plants with other countries? We know that Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia are also very interested in this. In 2020, the European Union imposed a 15% RES target on us . We've reached 16%, which means we don't have to act this way under time pressure. This means that this transformation simply needs to be done with the head. I have a question: How much offshore wind energy is an alternative to land-based wind energy? Because we know that from land windmills we have reached 7 GW - it is not so little, even though we hear alarming information here - and that these windmills will be built. Poles were not opposed and are not opposed to windmills built on land, but are opposed to building them behind the windows of houses. Would you like to see windmills built 10-20 m from the house where you live? I'm afraid no one's gonna make it. That's why the Poles protested. Because there was complete ignorance and complete chaos. It is also very important to build home energy warehouses. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It's very important. Does the Ministry monitor the work in this area? Because I know they're being run.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u189	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Wałęsa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u190	Good morning. The PiS government eliminated the possibility of placing windmills on land, thus taking away the possibility of preparing technology and logistics, learning basic know-how or human resources development. Instead, he jumps right into the deep end, literally. Our first farms will be built in an exclusive economic zone, which is far from land and at a very deep depth. Such investments increase costs and difficulty. How will these factors translate into costs that will then affect the price of producing such energy? On the other hand, government plans, which are very nice, very forward-looking, contribute or contribute to the creation of up to 70,000. full-time jobs. However, it will be necessary to adapt the offer of education and higher education and vocational education to the growing demand for these workers. Part of the necessary professions and competences, such as the preparation of investments or installations, the operation of turbines, the implementation of works related to foundations or energy or electrical installations or, finally, the maintenance of wind farms, are not carried out either on the basis of what we have offered in vocational schools or by universities. Without system solutions, it may turn out that building competitive advantages without adequate staff is simply impossible. Unfortunately, foreign companies will be beneficiaries to a large extent. Next line. What about the preparation of backup in the form of installation or service ports? Because in addition to investments in hydrotechnical and in-port infrastructure, they also require access infrastructure. It is important that wind farms qualify as critical infrastructure facilities, which will, after all, ensure energy security in our country. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do we have the personnel prepared to protect it physically and in cyberspace? These are issues that need to be answered. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u191	Thank you. Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice. Please kindly, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u192	Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Seym! First of all, a short statement dedicated to the crazy opposition. Well, in terms of energy security and credibility, you should reflect deeply on the French classic and take advantage of the opportunity to remain silent. I recommend humility and seriousness. The offshore wind farms, ladies and gentlemen, are indeed innovative and generational projects, not only in terms of energy security, so important in terms of today's cruel war caused by the evil empire, Putinow Russia, but also in terms of production, as it was here. the fuel of the future mentioned, i.e. green hydrogen, and the development of a widely understood blue economy. It is worth noting that these investments are made in full respect of environmental requirements with the involvement of national supply chain operators, so-called. local content. It is also the development of the shipbuilding industry. It will also benefit from ports where new swimming pools, new waterfronts, will be needed. This also applies to small marinas and ports such as Kolobrzeg, Darłowo, Ustka, Łeba, Władysławowo. These ports can and have conditions to operate as operating and service ports. The operation of such ports and farms also generates a number of services: hotel, catering, various types of transport, fuel supply for maritime transport, land transport, energy, the issue of administrative services, training, various types of permits and certification. We have to remember that there are also... It is also a competition: the German Sassnitz or Rönne, or the Danish city on the island of Bornholm, which also want to build wind farms. My question to the ministers: Do small ports like Kolobrzeg, Władysławowo, Łeba, Ustka, Darłowo have a chance to become service or operational ports? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u193	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the representative of the applicants of Mr Marek Suski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u194	Dear Marshal! Ministers! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! I would very much like to thank you for this debate. After this debate, it seems that we are more convinced that offshore wind energy is complementary to a diverse mix of energy, and from the point of view of efficiency, efficiency and investment opportunities is one of the best solutions. Different sources have different characteristics, complement each other, which is why this is a very good direction that the government proposes in building this energy. Ladies and gentlemen! There are many advantages of offshore wind energy, one can say that in practice the farms at sea work for more than 90% of the time, because we know that the wind at sea once blows from land, once blows from sea and elsewhere. There was talk of land-based wind power. Very often there are just days and nights of windlessness, which actually makes the efficiency of those so strongly supported by the opposition wind power plants on land much smaller and from the point of view of the continuous supply of electricity are simply, you can say, slightly inefficient. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, it was mentioned here that we killed energy or even murdered renewable energy... [[That's the truth.]] ...that we shut down the coal industry in Ostrołęka, interrupted the construction of the coal power plant - it was also the law and justice. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a strange definition of murder, since during the rule of law and justice there were about 1 million prosumers, i.e. dynamics, I would say it was an explosion of building various kinds of renewable energy sources, increase of prosumers. It was so fast that it did not even keep up with the expansion of energy networks, which also caused that we had already achieved the planned share of RES in the energy mix this year, although we assumed that it would only be next year. So we fulfilled our commitments faster than we expected, so it's hard to talk about murder here, we can even say about the proliferation of this energy, and we have to thank you for that, because they were thoughtful decisions. One could say that it was a great promotion for those who wanted to invest. At some point, when we achieved these goals, the promotion was over, and it's called murder. Ladies and gentlemen! Let's go back to Ostrołęka. We remember when you were in charge for eight years, you were going to make Polish energy dependent on Russian gas supplies. And all of Europe was hypnotized in this Russian gas fog, it was heading in the direction that led us to the situation that we have today that Russia is blackmailing the entire European Union. And it was then that crazy policy of dependence on Russia that forced Poland, because it was a compulsion to stop the coal investment. From today's point of view, we see that this was a pre-emption for Russia's energy war with Europe and that this decision of the European Union was actually wrong, because today we could say that we are more independent of Russian energy supplies. But of course we develop wind energy, we develop RES. Poland will become an energy hub and will also become a modern state with renewable energy sources. I would like to thank the Minister very warmly for the comprehensive information and for explaining all these wrong statements, the accusations that Poland, under the rule of law and justice, is not moving towards the development of renewable energy. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much for the debate and the Minister for the in-depth answers to the questions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u195	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Mark G grubarczyk. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u196	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! As a representative of the Ministry to assist the Ministry of Climate and Environment in maritime areas, I would like to inform you of the complete completion of the legislative process for the construction of wind farms. On 14 April 2021, the Council of Ministers adopted a regulation on the spatial planning of Polish maritime areas. On 27 November 2021, the Minister for Infrastructure issued a regulation on the evaluation of applications in the adjudicating procedure. On 15 December, the Minister for Infrastructure issued two regulations: one on navigational expertise and technical expertise for offshore wind farms and equipment team, and the second on a rescue plan and a plan to combat risks and pollution for offshore wind farms and equipment team. To this day 11 localization permits have been issued for offshore wind farms, for old locations. As regards the new locations, in January, February and March 2022 the Minister of Infrastructure published a total of 11 announcements on the possibility of submitting further applications which correspond to the 11 areas set out in Annex 2 to the Offshore Act. The period of 60 days specified in the notice for subsequent applications has expired in respect of nine locations. On 16 May 2022, the time limit for submission of applications for two further notices shall expire. Today, to the extent set out in Annex 2 to the Offshore Act, a total of 125 proposals have been received by the Minister of Infrastructure, which are currently subject to assessment and verification. By the end of this year, the entire allocation of subsequent locations and concessions should be completed. As regards the offshore port, the installation port, 30 July 2021, as amended in March 2022, at the request of the Minister of State Assets, the External Port in Gdańsk was declared the installation port and it will be implemented there. All ports can apply as offshore ports for cooperation with operators, while two basic service ports are identified: Łeba and Ustka. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u197	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment of Minister Ireneusz Profit. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u198	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank all your parliamentarians very much for having a meaningful discussion on this extremely crucial topic, which relates extensively to energy security, energy sovereignty, as was mentioned in the resolution of the Council of Ministers on 29 March as an update of the energy policy of Poland. These are just as important as military security, social security. Energy security is crucial for the development of industry, the whole economy, but also for the safety of households, each of us as citizens of the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to start by falsifying some, unfortunately, lies and untruths, which have also been written here in questions, particularly by your Members on the opposition side. Well, nothing's more wrong. I would also like to ask you not to repeat for the hundredth time untrue in the hope that society will believe that it is. And he won't believe it because the facts are self-defense. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 in Poland there was 4.9 GW capacity installed in wind farms on land. Today it is 7,2, which means that there has been an increase. This is a much greater power that works today in the Polish power system, but that is not all, because in the last 4 years in RES auctions we have contracted 5 GW of installed power and according to the dates in these contracts in the next 3 years, until 2025, on land in Poland will operate almost 12 GW of the capacity installed in wind farms. As regards the Law on Wind Energy on Land, so-called: 10H rules, I confirm that they are at the completion of the legislative work of the government project. This project was prepared at the Ministry of Development and Technology. Currently, as a result of the agreement between Minister Anna Moscow and Minister Waldemar Buda, Minister for Development, the project was transferred to the Ministry of Climate and Environment. As planned, we assume that the High House will be working on this project in June. Of course, the Council of Ministers must accept this project earlier. We are working on consensus so that the project is acceptable to society. A very important voice, which also sounded in the statements of Mrs Lydia Burzyńska. It must be acceptable, High Izbo, for society. We cannot invest in energy based on ideological considerations... [[Minister, where's the public consultation?]] ...but we should be based on economic, economic, environmental and social considerations. We are going to carry out these projects so that the economy benefits from it, but that it is accepted by local communities. Another one isn't true. Well, ladies and gentlemen, we have allegedly stopped the development of renewable energy sources. During the last 2 years - when there is a pandemic of Coronavirus, the crisis caused by this situation, also the situation of the war crisis in Ukraine - in 2022 and 2021, 8,5 were installed in Poland. GW renewable energy sources. This is mainly due to prosumers of distributed installations, which in March this year we exceeded 1 million, but also other installations. You can only see what is already in operation, but the difference is that we as government administration, and especially energy transmission and distribution operators, i.e. PSE - Polish Power Grids, energy distributors already see in the system the conditions of connection for new installations. And, ladies and gentlemen, in three years' time, and this is in sight, in three years' time in the national electricity system, about 28 GW of power in all technologies: in the wind on land, in the wind on the sea - it will be still running, it will also be photovoltaics, biogas, biomass or water energy. We think broadly, comprehensively about the development of renewable energy sources, also about the storage of this energy at household level. At the moment, in my 4.0 programme, we want to support the development of domestic energy stores, but also warehouses in trafostations, at the GPZ-ets, and large warehouses, which I believe Mr Wilczyński, a peak pumping power station, was talking about. There is a large project for the implementation of several pumped power plants. Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki has established a special interministerial team. It so happens that tomorrow, on Friday, there is a meeting of this team at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister. We are systematically, step by step, implementing this policy related to energy sovereignty. We should generate electricity in Poland as much as possible in renewable energy sources as possible, please. The Polish mix of the year 2033, because then we will give the first block of nuclear power, is a balanced mix based on many sources, so that on the basis there are stable sources, giving the so-called. stable power in the base. However, after 2030 the share of renewables will increase, reaching or exceeding 50% in the gross energy mix. As for the other very interesting questions, unfortunately, time is running out. I'll answer all the questions in writing, ladies and gentlemen, but maybe at least the questions... [[When's the grant?]] Mrs Anna April asked about the EU RES target for 2020. The European Commission has set us 15% for 2020, and we have reached 16.1%. We received 1 million prosumers in 2022 (The Bell) and this target was planned for 2030. As far as energy networks are concerned, I confirm that between 2016 and 2020 37 billion PLN was spent and by 2025, according to the PSE plan approved by the President of the Energy Regulatory Office, 52 billion PLN will be spent on the development and renovation of the energy network, including connection of RES projects. In the National Reconstruction Plan...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u199	Thank you, Minister. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Appropriations allocated to the National Plan for Reconstruction... Minister, you'll have to leave now. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Last sentence. Finally, I would like to say that we are waiting for the decision of the European Commission. These measures are needed, not only when it comes to Polish energy, but also when it comes to many areas of economic and social life. At the request of the Minister of Climate and Environment, we have written down loans for investors investing in offshore wind farms, as well as for the construction of an installation terminal and service terminals. Ladies and gentlemen! We are prepared for this and have the potential to be the leader of offshore wind energy in the Baltic Sea basin to support projects that will be implemented in the Baltic States, but also in cooperation with Denmark, Sweden, Germany, Finland, all countries in the Baltic Sea, except Russia. Ladies and gentlemen! I want to say that this is the Polish wind, this is the Polish sun, these are the Polish renewable energy sources. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] Minister, prepare answers to questions in writing. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment Ireneusz Gains: Foreign investors carry out, prepare large industrial investments, want to build factories for offshore and land wind farms, so-called. Local context. These will be initiatives which will support the Polish economy by building sustainable, well-paid jobs, through indirect taxes and budgetary impact, to the Treasury, and for this we can only have the same benefits. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. This statement concludes the consideration of this item on the agenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u200	On the potential and development of offshore wind energy in Poland, including the process of granting permits for the construction and use of artificial islands, structures and equipment in the exclusive economic zone of the Republic of Poland (PSZW). According to experts, the Polish Baltic has great potential in the development and construction of offshore wind farms. The Baltica Maritime Wind Farm project with a total capacity of up to 2.5 GW, partners of PGE and company Årsted is to be launched in 2026. It will be a big step towards improving the energy situation in Poland, as well as the possibility of developing this energy sector in the country. At the same time, PGE, Tauron and Enea signed a letter of intent in January 2021, which was the beginning of their cooperation with future offshore wind farm projects. The intention of the letter was to strengthen the cooperation of energy companies in the field of offshore wind energy. During the 14th edition of the European Economic Congress, Mr Ireneusz Nagroda, State Secretary at the Ministry of Climate and Environment, Government Plenipotentiary for He said: Last year (2021), 15 September, after more than a year's work, a sector-specific agreement was successfully concluded to support the development of this sector of the economy in Poland. Polish partners are a guarantee of strengthening local content, which we very much care about. Therefore, please answer the following questions. At what stage is the construction of the Baltica Marine Wind Farm? Are there difficulties in implementing this project? What is the cooperation between PGE, Tauron and Enea in the field of offshore wind energy? Are the first results of this cooperation? What are the results of the sectoral agreement signed by the Ministry of Climate and Environment to contribute to the development of the energy sector in the country?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u201	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On a global scale, wind energy generates more than 3% of the world's electricity, and its market share in renewable energy sources is highest. 2020 was a record year for global wind power, but a new report published by GWEC warns that the world must install new wind power three times faster in the next decade to achieve global climate targets. Wind energy is a positive response to the current challenges, which not only reduces domestic demand for imports of energy raw materials, but also offers the cost of generating electricity, which is 3-3,5 times lower than fossil fuels. Another area providing green energy to the Polish energy system is small water power plants. In Poland, small water energy has significant development potential, mainly due to the technical hydroenergy capabilities of national rivers, which are currently used in 19%. Hence my question: What are the prospects for increasing the number of small hydropower plants in the coming years?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u202	We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising (prints No 2222 and 2227). I kindly ask Mrs Violetta Porowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u203	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! I present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising presented by the President of the Republic of Poland, print No 2222. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 9 May 2022 the above draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for first reading. The Committee on Culture and Media, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 11 May 2022, invites the High Sejm to approve the attached draft law. Since the short text of the bill has a sound and a huge weight, I allow myself to read this important material. Act establishing the National Day of the Silesian Uprising In honor of the heroes - participants of the three Silesian Uprisings, who in the years 1919-1921 fought the connection of the Upper Silesia to the reborn Republic, are as follows: Art. 1. June 20th is the National Day of the Silesian Uprising. Art. 2. The National Day of the Silesian Uprising is a national holiday. Art. 3. The Act shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication. At the meeting of the Committee on Culture, I would say a brief, substantive discussion, which made it clear to the members of the committee that the Silesian uprisings require their commemoration with a national holiday dedicated to them, precisely in tribute to the Silesian insurgents, for their patriotism, for their love for their homeland, for their bravery and fortitude in the struggle to make the Republic great. Besides, the three Silesian Uprisings played an extremely important role in the process of unifying Polish lands after the partitions and had a significant impact on the development of the western border of the reborn state. Two proposals for amendments were tabled in the committee. The first was an amendment to give up the national word in the title, which would mean that a national holiday to honor the Silesian uprisings would be called the Day of the Silesian Uprising. [[It wasn't an amendment.]] But there was a point. There was a point that the committee gave up after the discussion. [[You're the rapporteur, please...]] Mr. Speaker! I know you made that remark. After the discussion, the Commission decided that this would not be accepted as an amendment. Thank you for giving that up. [[I have not tabled any amendment, Madame.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u204	Mr President, you will explain this to yourselves outside the room.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u205	Mr. Speaker! We discussed this for a moment, you suggested that there should be no name: National Day of the Silesian Uprising. Ladies and gentlemen, the second formal amendment concerned the day on which the National Day of the Silesian Uprising would be celebrated. Let me remind you that this is June 20th in the bill. Mr Urbaniak proposed that this should be the 2nd of May. I will just remind you that on May 2nd this is the day on which we already have two serious holidays, i.e. the day of the Polish flag and the day of Polonia. If we add one more very important, valuable, important holiday on this day, or the festival of the Silesian Uprising, then the day of May 2 would be very full and the holidays would be blurred. [[We don't mind.]] And on 20 June, ladies and gentlemen, it refers to a date so common in Silesian consciousness - to the date of entry to Katowice in 1922. The Polish Army led by General Stanisław Szeptycki. Moreover, this is the wording of the law and such a proposal to establish a national holiday on 20 June was made by the initiators - i.e. the Sejmik of the Silesian Voivodeship and NGOs from both the Silesian Voivodeship and the Opole Voivodeship - who appealed to the President of the Republic of Poland for the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprisings. The President responded to this appeal by submitting a draft of the legislation I read in the form I presented. The High Committee proposes not to change the content of the bill. On the other hand, following the amendment tabled at the applicant's request, the Committee on Culture and Communications, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, presents this proposal as a request from a minority. I'll remind you, Art. 1 to read: On 2 May the National Day of the Silesian Uprising is established. This is an amendment tabled by Mr Urbaniak. The Commission proposes that the draft law be adopted as presented by the President of the Republic of Poland and voted by the Committee on Culture. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u206	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Wojciech Sharama to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u207	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! On behalf of the parliamentary club, I thank President Andrzej Duda very much for taking this legislative initiative. His efforts to honor the memory of the Silesian insurgents have always been observed from the beginning of his office. His frequent visits to Silesia and Katowice caused that Silesian matters were always properly exposed, and the draft of this law is as if the culmination of this activity. Let me quote a brief passage from the resolution of the Silesian Sejm, which was the initiator of these actions by President Andrzej Duda: It is our duty to cultivate memory and to pay tribute to the heroes who restored Silesia to Poland. Their unparalleled valor and dedication arouses the highest respect and appreciation. We are proud to look back today, remembering the events of the old age, as a model of patriotism for contemporary and signposts for future generations of Poles. The establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising will be a grand and worthy culmination. This is what the resolution of the sejmik, which was executed by the Marshal of Jakub Chełstowski and passed on to the President, says. The content of this resolution was worked by the sleeper. Prof. Zygmunt Wozniczka, a wonderful historian (Applause), one of the most outstanding experts in Upper Silesia history, the man for whom Silesia and Poland were one, in his works he always argued. The Sejmik took advantage of his knowledge and adopted such a resolution. It is also necessary to thank other people besides the councillors of the Sejm - former Member Czesław Sobierajski, the voivode of Wieczork for their work, for their contribution to the preparation of this resolution, for the preparation of events related to all three Silesian uprisings, because we celebrated the centenary of the Silesian Uprising. Here, too, a thank you to the President for his commitment to these celebrations. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u208	Thank you very much. Mrs Bożena Borys-Raccoon, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u209	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Seym! There are many dates related to the Silesian uprisings - 16 August, 20 August, 25 August, 2/3 May. In the years 1919-2021 three Silesian rises, three great uprisings, and one goal - a return to the mother, a return to Poland. Wojciech Korfanty spoke about Polishness already in 1918 in the German Parliament: "You have no other country over Poland." This is the first of the 10 commandments of the Upper Silesian plebiscite contained in one of the flyers sold in Silesia. Dreams about Poland were a message for Silesians, a life motto. The establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising is an expected and deserved holiday for local, regional and local communities, for all the inhabitants of my voivodship. Date 20 June 1922 is the day on which the longing homeland - Poland, came to us, to the Silesians, because it was then that the Polish troops crossed the border and under the leadership of General Stanisław Szeptycki entered Katowice. I would like to thank President Andrzej Duda very warmly for this initiative. On behalf of the inhabitants of the voivodship, I also thank you, Poland, with the words placed on the insurgent banner from the beginning of 1920. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports the presidential draft Print Act 2222 and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u210	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Wojciech the King will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u211	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am a Member of Mysłowice, and it was in my hometown in the summer of 1919 that the Silesian Uprising broke out. They were preceded by arrests of Polish activists, German repressions, strikes and massacres in Mysłowice. Exactly on August 16, 1919, when the workers in the company of families were waiting for the payout at the gate of the Smysnovice mine, shots fired. Six people were killed by German bullets, and many were injured. The Silesian people grabbed a gun. A year later the Second Silesian Uprising began, in the following year the largest - the Third Uprising. As a result of the insurgent uprisings, a large part of Silesia was found within the borders of the Republic of Poland. On 20 June 1922, Polish troops led by General Stanisław Szeptycki crossed the border near Szopinice and entered Silesia. It is worth reminding here that the first Silesian voivode was Józef Rymer, a social activist, one of the leaders of the Third Silesian Uprising. On 16 July 1922, a document commemorating the takeover of the part of Silesia by the Republic of Poland was signed in Katowice. Thus the dreams of several generations of inhabitants of Silesian land about freedom and independence were fulfilled. Silesia was reborn and the independent Republic was reborn after 123 years of partitions. [[Applause]] Such reflections accompany me every time in my hometown, in Mysłowice, I make flowers under a plaque commemorating these insurgent events from 1919. In the interwar period Silesia enjoyed autonomy, had its own Sejm, a legislative body, had an autonomous Silesian Voivodeship, had Silesian police, the treasure of Silesia. The Silesians were and are still proud of their identity. [[Applause]] In the census about 800,000. The inhabitants declared Silesian nationality, which shows a unique, complicated, beautiful history of Silesian land. All the more heroes of those difficult and painful times, times of uprisings from 1919-1921, one must pay tribute and respect. The best way to do this is to establish the day of the Silesian Uprising as a state holiday. The Civic Coalition Club will vote in favour of the law on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u212	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Rutka will present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u213	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law presented by the president on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising, i.e. the glorification of the Silesian Uprisings, is a project that fits in with the team's good change in the policy of honoring national uprisings. It must be remembered here that in the long history of the uprising the only fully victorious uprising was the Greater Poland Uprising, also honored. [[Applause]] In the case of independence breaks from 1919-1921 in Silesian lands about the success comparable to that of Wielkopolska of course speak You can't and historians agree on that. Referring to history, it is worth talking about facts, and emotions, both positive and negative, should be left next to them. So I'm gonna appeal to facts, not emotions. During the session of the German Reichstag on 25 October 1918, a member from the Gliwice-Orliniet district of Wojciech Korfanty stated that the reborn Republic should also include the districts of Upper Silesia and Middle Silesia. Plebiscite in Upper Silesia, the decision of the Versailles Treaty ending World War I, was to decide on the course of the Polish-German border. No wonder that the plebiscite campaign, which lasted almost 2 years, was conducted with a huge commitment of funds, both from Berlin and Warsaw. Silesia was then a very developed area with a high population density, urbanized, highly industrialized, of great social, cultural and economic value. The plebiscite, which we would call a referendum today, allowed the inhabitants of Silesia to choose one of two options: to take a stand on the side of Poland or Germany. The plebiscite was organized after two failed Silesian uprisings of 1919 and 1920. The plebiscite was conducted on 21 March 1921. Both sides have embarked on a broad propaganda campaign. It is worth noting that Wojciech Korfanty promised Silesian partial autonomy, and every Silesian voting for Poland received a cow, which was a really serious, factual incentive at the time. In the plebiscite behind Poland 479 thousand were given. votes, behind the Germans - 707 thousand. The Polish side gained the majority in the powiats Bytom-wiś, Katowice-wiś, Pszczyna, Rybnik, Strzelce, Tarnowskie Góry and Toszek-Gliwice. In the Lublin and Zabran counties, the Germans were given the right to vote. After the results were announced, both sides declared victory. The German inhabitants of the city demonstrated their joy. On the other hand, Poles voting for Poland in the Pszczyńskie and Katowice districts were armed against the Germans taking over power. The proposal for the division of the plebiscite area was to be prepared by the Intersocious Governing Commission. However, its members were unable to reach a common position. According to the plan prepared by representatives of Italy and Great Britain, Poland would gain only 25% of the plebiscite area with only 20 mine shafts. The result of the plebiscite, which, to be clear, was not carried out transparently, free and without manipulation, could not be accepted by the reborn Republic. From January 1921, diversions were organized, the most characteristic of which was the destruction of a number of bridges at night from 2 to 3 May, so as to cut off the communication area with Germany. The result of this unspoken Polish-German war (Applause) was one of the greatest successes of the Polish state, just for winning the war against Bolshevik Russia. The Third Silesian Uprising was victorious, although militaryly it was not decided. It ended with a ceasefire, but it brought political victory. Poland was granted much more of the disputed territories than previously intended. Nevertheless, there were about 1 million Polish people left in Opole under German rule. In the times of the Second Republic of Poland, but also during the period of the Polish People's Republic in all school textbooks and in many historical studies it was indicated that Poland is for Silesia a matrix. It's a brave thesis that's hard to sign with both hands. [[Applause]] The case is much more complex, as the last census has shown. It's in the last year's census of over 800,000. citizens of the Republic of Poland declared their Silesian nationality. For hundreds of thousands of Polish citizens Silesia is a small homeland that deserves respect, recognition and respect for its culture. Therefore, from this point of view it is necessary to call for recognition of the Silesian language. [[Applause]] Why do Kaszubi, who have fought for decades to acknowledge their linguistic separation, have the right to their language and the Silesians do not? The Left Club will support the proposed project to establish the National Day of the Silesian Uprising in order to respect memory, commemorate victims and shed blood. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz on behalf of the Coalition Poland club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u215	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Silesia is not only a region rich in natural resources and industrial heart of Poland, but also a beautiful landscaped land, with its rich and diverse tradition and unique climates, especially urban ones, which are difficult to find anywhere, not only in Poland. Silesians, in turn, are people of hard work and enviable economy, sincere and upright, who are very attached to their region, its tradition and Silesian mating, but at the same time Polish patriots, which they expressed many times. The most important proof of the attachment of Silesians to the Republic of Poland is the history of their struggle for the Polishness of Silesia known as the Silesian uprisings. However, in practice the fight for the Polishness of this land began much earlier, among others. through the self-organization of Polish Silesians, among others. in the Gymnastic Society of the Falcon or the Farmers' and Workers' Society. They were the forge of HR, the future leaders of the Silesian insurgent movement, to mention, for example, Alfonso Zgrebniok or Wojciech Korfante. From a political point of view, a very important signal of the will of the Polish Silesians to unite with the matrix was the speech in Reichstag by Wojciech Korfanty, who was then a Member of Silesian land to this parliament, with a loud and clear demand to join all lands of Prussian and Upper Silesia. This took place on 23 October 1918, so more than 2 weeks before the signing of the ceasefire in the First World War and 3 weeks before the Regency Council in Warsaw handed over political power to Józef Piłsudski, from which the reconstruction of the Polish statehood began after years of partitions. The response of the Germans was the introduction of a stronger military presence and repression for the manifestation of Polishness by the Silesian people, which was officially recognized even as treason. However, this did not stop Polish Silesians who took part in mass rallies or strikes in thousands. Already in June, at the beginning of June 1919 the so-called explosion broke out. Oleskie Uprising, but without the help of Polish units, was quickly suppressed and the leaders were sentenced to severe punishments, even up to 5 years in prison. The Silesians, like many Poles at that time, at least with blood they confirmed their attachment to the idea of union with the newly emerging Republic of Poland - that was the name at the time. An example of this is also the massacre in Mysłowice, which my fellow Member the King has already mentioned. This lasted a week, and although it failed, it was the beginning of a new era in the fight for Silesian Polishness in the common opinion of contemporary politicians and later historians, since it mobilized masses, which was reflected in the outcome of local elections in the Opole Reunion 3 months later, in which the Polish camp won. The second Silesian uprising, which broke out just over a year later, aimed at resolving the German SiPo police known for repression against the Polish Silesians and creating a new one in its place, consisting of mixed Polish-German units, which would significantly reduce the institutional advantage of the Germans before the planned referendum to decide on the belonging of individual parts of Silesia to the Polish or German state. Without the help of the Polish Army and this uprising ended in a moderate success, because the police were actually dissolved, but it has to be understood that it was the year when the newly established Polish state and the Polish army first of all fought against the Bolshevik storm near Warsaw, in the east. The third, last and most important uprising was a two-month armed struggle after the end of the plebiscite, whose results were considered unfair by the leaders of the Polish Silesians, even by the participation of more than 180 thousand. German emigrants brought in who left Silesia before 1904. It resulted in the decision of the conference of ambassadors in Paris to award a significant part of Silesia, especially the eastern districts, the Republic of Poland. Its leader was Wojciech Korfanty, a great Silesian, a zealous Polish patriot, a Polish plebiscite commissioner, and in free Poland, among others. Deputy Prime Minister in the second government of Vincent Witos, so unfairly treated later by the Sanitary authorities of the Second Republic. In view of the above, on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I am convinced that a special national holiday of a national nature aimed at honoring the long-term and even centuries-old struggle of the Silesians for Polishness and tribute to the participants of this fight, especially the Silesian insurgents, is a good initiative that my club will support in voting. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u216	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, on behalf of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u217	Ladies and gentlemen, all is well, let it be the feast of the Silesian Uprising, by all means, but why June 20th? June 20th, but a year later, is the date of entry of Polish troops. Traditionally, the anniversaries of the Silesian Uprisings in Silesia are celebrated rather on 2 May, on the day of the outbreak of the 3rd Uprising, at night from 2 to 3 May. Besides, such an unwritten principle is also accepted in other uprisings, anniversaries of the uprisings: Wielkopolska, Warsaw or November we celebrate on the day of their explosion. Why, then? June 20th? The case is prosaic. The initiators slept through the 100th anniversary last year - or even the 101st anniversary this year, because the 2nd of May has already passed - and now you have found a different date to catch the 100th anniversary this year. But for God's sake, it's supposed to be a holiday for years. Let's not make a one-time stunt. Sooner or later it's gonna have to be corrected, so let's not really make a makeover. An amendment has been tabled to the Confederation on this matter. In the committee only representatives of PSL and the Left supported us, others apparently need more time to think, but we encourage this reflection. Besides, it has other advantages, it's a long weekend, flag day. That's a lot more fitting. Moreover, there is another important circumstance for May 2nd. On 2 May the Uprising broke out in Silesia and on 20 June 1922, troops arrived from Sosnowiec. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u218	Thank you very much. In the second part of time for the Confederation, Mr Krzysztof Tuduj. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u219	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, hi and praise to the heroes, the Silesian insurgents! The ability to act armedly is one of the conditions for maintaining independence or fighting it. It's worth remembering. I would also like to mention that in Katowice for over a decade by the national community there has been a march of Silesian insurgents, a social initiative raising the rank of these heroes. Taking advantage of the occasion, in the context of the 100th anniversary, I would like to sadly comment on the fact that on the 100th anniversary of the Battle of Warsaw, a very important event on the scale of Poland and the world, one of the most important battles in the world, as some say, the 18th most important battle in the world, was not able to build a monument. The Polish state under the rule of the PiS failed to do so. I was writing an interpellation asking if we could make it to 2022 with this monument. I got a disarmingly honest answer that I didn't, so I don't know when we're gonna make it. On the one hand, the State and the Government of Law and Justice are responsible for this, on the other hand, for the Warsaw government. If we want to look for a real Russian onuca, then I think that it is (the bell) there, among those people who block the creation of this very important monument, that we will find it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u220	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. I kindly ask you to present the position of the wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u221	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you so much for this holiday. Thank you, Mr. President, for the initiative. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen of the Aldermen and the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship. This gesture is very important and very necessary - we need Poland and Silesia. I feel like a Pole and a Silesian at the same time. I have such a dream and deep hope that during the celebration there will be time, political will and conviction when it comes to dealing with a few things that are important for Silesia, such as the issue of Silesian mating, Silesian regional language. One of the Polish MEPs recently asked in the European Parliament: Why does Poland claim that there is no language that I and my entire family have been using since childhood? There are tens of thousands of such families and people in Polish Silesia, from Opole to Mysłowice, from Lublin to Tarnowskie Góra, and even further, to Opawa or Frydek-Mistek. Maybe there will be time, will and political will to nurture the memory of the tragic fates of Silesians and Silesians, people who have always lived here and who were suddenly told to define themselves, brothers who fought against the brothers, Silesians who were persecuted by the Germans for Polishness, and communist Poland called Germans, and tens of thousands of victims of the Upper Silesian tragedy in Soviet mines. Maybe there will be time for respect for hundreds, or maybe thousands, of people who in Silesia just feel local and that's what they want to remain, not necessarily in opposition to Polishness. Sometimes they just have to accept it. Sometimes it's enough just to respect this place. ¿It did not turn out to be what we dreamed of, but we do not cease to work and sacrifice to make Poland worthy of our dreams - these words of Wojciech Korfanta despite all their bitterness today I understand as an incentive to work and fulfill dreams, including those I have just mentioned. Of course, together with the entire Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 will support this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u222	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask questions. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Lewis Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u223	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The project deals with the proposal to establish the National Day of the Silesian Uprising on 20 June for the commemoration of the three breakages from 1919-1921. I have the following question: How do the state authorities intend to celebrate this holiday if this bill is adopted? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u224	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u225	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! All heroes who sacrifice their health and life in the struggle for our homeland's freedom deserve respect and commemoration. Silesian uprisings have been recorded in the history of Poland and should be celebrated on the same principles as all other uprisings, and their participants should be commemorated in the same way as we commemorate the heroes of 13 other uprisings that took place in our history. Unfortunately, mainly due to the current government, insurgents were also divided into better and worse sort. We honored the heroes of the Warsaw Uprising with national holidays, and now also the Silesian Uprisings, while the rest of us did not get the same honor. Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u226	Please make the appropriate proposals. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u227	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What happened more than 100 years ago in Silesia, Polish propaganda is called Silesian uprisings. Historians, however, speak of the hybrid, unspoken Polish-German war, and also call it a civil war. [[Applause]] This is how the Silesians see these events, regardless of how they voted in the plebiscite, where there were no questions for us fundamental, whether we want Silesia to become an independent republic. The third Silesian uprising was an armed struggle across Silesian hearts, a war in which Polish soldiers participated, in which Polish equipment was used and Polish ammunition was fired, which contributed to countless dramas, in the name of Silesia's integration into Poland. Those are the facts. As Silesian I will vote against, because my ethnic minority is still discriminated against and deprived of even my own language in Poland. I have a question for the President because the project shows that the Silesians as Polish citizens respect: Can we count on the initiative to recognise Silesian language as a regional language so that we can continue to enrich Poland culturally? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u228	Member Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u229	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is a little known fact, but I think it is worth knowing that the Silesian uprisings took place, and even in the case of the first of their beginnings, in Cieszyński Silesia. This insurgent effort was also supported by insurgents from Pszczyna, where the insurgent troops marched out. Of course, I think that the date of May 2 would be from the point of view of this tradition, which is important, but if this holiday is celebrated on June 20th, I think it will also be a moment when this historical circumstance connected with the participation of inhabitants of Pszczyńska Land, Silesia Cieszyński in these events can be re-enlighted and made aware of the inhabitants of all Poland. Today we worship (the bell) the insurgents. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u230	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Saluga, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u231	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is a very necessary, important and expected by many environments, most of the environments in Upper Silesia law. This is just the holiday we were expecting, hoping that eventually the High House, the Polish Parliament, would take the initiative and adopt such a law. Certainly, as in the Seym, thanks were given here to the seymium for taking the initiative, where it was adopted unanimously - we will accept it, I hope, unanimously, except perhaps in one voice. But the true words are that a little too fast, a little too late, a little on the knee. What is it? The Institute of National Remembrance, the Silesian Institute, the combatant environments had no chance to express themselves. I fear that this discussion, which is taking place in the High House, about these dates, will be passed (the bell) after the adoption of this law, while the cultural institutions, the combatant unions, etc. Unfortunately, they didn't have a chance...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u232	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u233	...to take part in it when it comes to this bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u234	Mr Ryszard Wilczyński, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u235	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As a Member of the Opole Land, I welcome the initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland to establish a national holiday commemorating the Silesian Uprising. You have to thank me for that. However, the date of June 20 surprises, because the exemplary place for the Silesian Uprising remains Mount St. Anna, and such a date - on May 2nd, as you confirmed by the President yourself, hosting there a year ago and commemorating the Silesian Uprisings on that date. I think that the tradition in Opole, which exists with the ethnic complexity of our region of consensus, will not change and the date of May 2 will remain. I think it was a mistake not to include this holiday important for the two regions in the Polish national triduum, which starts on May 1st, i.e. on the date of Poland's accession to the European Union, and ends - after the Day of Flags of the Republic of Poland - on May 3rd. It would be a strong, regional reinforcement. Unfortunately, I fear that the date of June 20th, which has not yet been associated with the Silesian uprisings, will blur this issue...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u236	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u237	...and it won't break because of the calendar...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u238	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u239	...because that's when the school year ends. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Dyduch, Member of the Dyduch Group. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u241	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Even before 1000 years ago. Silesia was very attractive to many European nations: for Poles who were created by the new country, Germans and Czechs. This is how Silesia's fate has been for over 1,000 years. Let's remember that. Silesians as a nation have also developed over the years. Lower Silesia, Upper Silesia and Silesia Opole were only allocated to Poland after the war. Let's remember that. Yeah, you don't like commies, but that's when it happened. Today as Poland we have the whole Lower Silesia, Silesia Opole and Upper Silesia. We must respect the history of this region, 1000 years, and respect the minorities that are in Silesia today. We're gonna make a mistake ruling them out of public life. They're gonna be proud today... [[Voice from the hall: What do you say for nonsense?]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Bullshit!]] I'm not talking nonsense. Just reach out to Wikipedia. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u242	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u243	Let's remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u244	Thank you. Mrs Monika Rosa, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u245	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! History isn't black and white. Hybrid Civil War in Silesia, Silesian Uprising or Polish-German War - naming depends on perspective, but also on family history, ancestors. The history of Silesia is multifaceted, especially when it comes to 1921 events. Often, the centralist historical narrative does not go hand in hand with historical truth. Therefore, I ask: Did you talk to the Silesian families who fought on the other side, who dreamed of the autonomy of the Silesian region? Have you read the book Śląskie Uprising 1919-1920-1921? The unknown Polish-German war ¿ Prof. Kaczmarka? What will be honored for some will cause sadness in others, will be a tragedy, a reason for division between families, cities, villages, and often also houses. A story? What's wrong with him? Rino-biole?. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We don't have our permission to give her such a black and white expression. [[Applause]] That is why we are asking the President for one thing: to recognise the Silesian language as a regional language. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u246	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u247	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I would like to ask if, in preparing this bill and responding to the resolution of the Silesian Sejm and the demands of other organizations, Mr President and the President's Office held consultations on the date we are discussing here today, i.e. the date in which the National Day of the Silesian Uprising is due. When October 1st Ub. On 27 December, we passed a law on the establishment of the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising. Few of them, under that bill, signed 8,000. citizens, including representatives of cultural institutions, NGOs, local governments. It was a full consensus. This was also seen in the Chamber during the debate. Today we're in a slightly different situation, which is why I wanted to ask you a question. Was this draft law the subject of consultation? Was the decision concerning the date (the bell) taken in consensus? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Olszewski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u249	My dear Miss Marshal! High Seym! The draft law on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising on 20 June presented by the President of the Republic of Poland Andrzej Duda is an initiative worthy of praise. The three Silesian Uprisings played an extremely important role in the process of unifying Polish lands after the partitions. The purpose of the establishment of the day of the Silesian Uprising as a new state holiday is to pay tribute to heroes whose bravery allowed the Upper Silesia to return to the reborn Republic. It is also the cultivation of memory of Poles fighting for independence in Silesia. The initiative, which should be highlighted, is a common voice of citizens, the Silesian Voivodeship government and representatives of NGOs, among others. Social and Cultural Society of Poland Silesia. Question: "Will the new programming bases in primary and secondary schools (Dawn) take into account the newly established state holidays, i.e. the National Day of the Silesian Uprising and the National Day of the Victory of the Wielkopolska Uprising?" The idea is to promote patriotic attitudes and historical knowledge among the youngest Poles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u250	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Civic Coalition. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u251	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I will speak to you here as born in Katowice Silesia for many generations after the sword and after the bath. What I'm trying to say is that we're happy that this holiday has been established. We are happy because we recognize that this proposed day of memory of Silesian uprisings will be de facto the feast of Silesia. That's how we'd like to see it. I think we all deserve festivals that emphasize cultural wealth and the contribution of generations not only Silesians and Silesians, but also other ethnic groups and regional groups to our homeland. I think Silesians and Silesians are not a collective entity. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Each of us has our own history, each of us has our own experiences. Due to the complicated fates of Silesia these experiences are very diverse. Let's consider it our common wealth. That's how I see the proposal to set up this holiday. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Very good.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u252	Thank you, Member. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u253	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As important an initiative as the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising should bring together all Poles. Maybe besides Mr Richard Galla, who is in the German minority and last year attacked President Andrzej Duda just because of a beautiful holiday commemorating the century of Silesian uprisings. This law, this resolution, should be supported, even if there are such provocative, anti-Polish and pro-German speeches as Mr Maciej Kopc of the post-communist Left who spoke about some Silesian minority. No, sir, there is no Silesian minority. Silence is Polishness and we all know it here. Let us adopt this resolution and do not use this resolution for any such anti-Polish provocations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u254	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. [[I've been mentioned by name.]] No, no. It's okay. [[Your Marshal...]] Then appeal. [[But I was called.]] Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, Civic Coalition. [[Voice from the hall: When the minister was there, you were...]] [[Marshal, this is my...]] Are you not interested in the question? Mr Sterczewski? Mr President, please come down and allow your colleague to ask you a question. [[This is model treatment...]] [[Sit down, sit down.]] You're welcome, sir. [[Voice from the hall: As the minister was, it was: please, you were mentioned.]] Do you still want to discuss it? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Mr President, are you asking a question or not? Great.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u255	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am glad that after commemorating the Greater Poland Uprising, you can also see how important the events of the fraternal civil war that took place in Upper Silesia in the years 1919-1921, sometimes called Silesian Uprisings, were to us. However, I have the impression that it's on your part that it's just playing public, because every day you show how you ignore self-government and do not respect local culture. Silesians and Silesians have been waiting for decades for the Silesian language to be officially recognized by the Polish state. [[The voice from the room: What nonsense!]] [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Dude, what are you, a housewife?]] More than 0.5 million people speak Silesia. Over 800,000. people in the census admitted whether they identified their identity, their nationality as Silesian. When are you gonna see these people? When will you stop ignoring them? [[Bożen Boris-Szopa: There are 4 million of us.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. President! How long do these people have to wait for the Silesian language to be recognized? [[♪ The bell ♪]] So respect for history and Silesian language is one thing, but along with it should go respect for the living here and now. Fest says hello to Sl? Nsk and wow, what do you think? Nska gotka soon gained her status, she's got her hands on it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u256	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, before... Wait a minute. I'd like to say hello to an extraordinary person. Today we were visited by Dr. Helena Pyz, a Polish doctor working in India, founder of the Indian Jeevodaya center, which means the dawn of life. Doctor's been helping lepers for over 30 years, healing, running a school for children in the resort. He makes sure every kid has a place to sleep and isn't hungry. Today at the hour. 18 in the Sejm building in the hall. Jack Curonia will be held a screening of Paweł Wysoczański's film tomorrow we will have a long day ¿. The film shows the life and above all the doctor's services there, in India, among the sick. I cordially invite all of you, and please give a warm welcome to the doctor. [[Applause, some Members get up]] I hope you'll find time to watch the film, because there will also be an opportunity to talk to the doctor, and a truly extraordinary person. Excuse me, I'm going back to the point. Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski, Civic Coalition. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u257	Mrs. Marshalkini! High Izbo! I don't like national words. I believe that this is a word, especially in the interpretation of Law and Justice, shattered, broken, annulled. [[Do you know the constitution?]] However, the national word can be very useful and useful for this holiday. It can be useful for us to recognise Silesian culture so that we recognise Silesian autonomy to emphasize the strength of Silesian language as an autonomous language. For those 800,000. people living in Silesia The Silesian language is something important and inalienable, as is the Polish language for us here. The words should be in Silesian, but also in Polish. We must be aware of this so that this openness is our norm, not a counterweight to national, nationalist ideas for Polish reality. [[Applause]] [[Bożen Borys-Raccoon: But you are a direchtor teroz nudity.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u258	Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u259	God bless all Poles, Silesians. The Grüs Gotts, who do not love Poland, remain our neighbours in history and modern times. I am glad that we are leaving the children's room, we have moved on to the adult room and we understand that national, state policy can and sometimes should also be implemented through the projection of force beyond the current borders, as it happened in Silesia. Here is a small footnote: it was said that the Silesian Uprising and the Wielkopolska Uprising, yet the Sejne Uprising are on this short list of uprisings, which resulted in relative success, achieved some goals. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So we went to the adult room and therefore the question: Will we invite representatives of the Lugansk and Donetsk republic to celebrate this holiday in May or in June? It's the same mechanism.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u260	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u261	It would turn out to be, celebrating such beautiful episodes of our history, to grow up also in our relation to the events that are taking place today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u262	Thank you, sir. I think they're your friends, not ours. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u263	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The whole world, and so Silesia, had a terrible World War I. There may have been no genocide then, no fascism, no murder of the whole nation, but millions of soldiers - including Silesians - died. And yet in the Silesian Uprising, this 3rd Uprising, there were 50,000. Silesian soldiers who missed Poland. Nevertheless, it has been a huge success. - that's what he said in front of the Lech Kaczyński monument. The establishment of the feast will be a tribute to these people and a reminder in our historical memory of this very important event. This holiday should, especially now in connection with this aggression which we all see, unite us, unless someone is against Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Yeah, I guess it is.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u264	Thank you, sir. Mr Maciej Necessary, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u265	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Silesian uprisings, their attitude to them were shared by Silesians, including Polish-speaking ones. Also today, the attitude towards these events in Silesia is far from unambiguous. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Dude, what are you, a housewife?]] For me, as a Silesian, socialist and Polish patriot, the closest option is that which in the Silesian uprisings and in the new democratic Poland saw the hope of social justice, of improving the fate of the Silesian people. But in no way can I understand how the military act of the Silesian people is to be commemorated by entering the Silesian Polish Army. Why didn't any date associated with the Silesian uprisings meet your approval, and this particular 20th of June - yes? It is not the subjective treatment of the Silesians, it is not an honest approach to history, it is certainly not a worthy and fair (The Bell) commemoration of these events, therefore I will not be able to support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bożen Boris-Szopa: This is a resolution of the Sejm, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u266	Thank you. Mr Jerzy Poleczek, Law and Justice. I'm asking you kindly to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u267	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I was more optimistic about the voices in the questions that were here or the opinions. Some of them, however, are remarkable. First of all, it is important to remember elementary things. Firstly, President Andrzej Duda's initiative here and now fits into the solemn end of the celebration of the century of independence of the Republic of Poland. These celebrations will be held, if I remember correctly, on June 19th this year. in Katowice. However, this legislative initiative of the President of the Republic of Poland is primarily a payment of historical commitments towards Upper Silesia, right, fighting and sacrificial citizens of the Polish state. Secondly, this initiative is a need to maintain a fair memory of (The Bell) still living shadows of Silesian insurgents. And I absolutely disagree with any opinions that depreciate bloodshed to the Republic of Poland more than 100 years ago.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u268	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u269	And this is also what this initiative, which I think, the vast majority of this Parliament hall connects, not divides. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u270	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Merry, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u271	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, as a Pole and son of Silesian land, I thank the President, the Management Board of Silesian Voivodeship, Councillor of the Sejmik of Silesian Voivodeship for this initiative and for - I think - worship. Because today is the day when we want to honor all those who fought for Poland in the Silesian uprisings and survived these uprisings, but also those who died in these uprisings. I wouldn't want the debate on such a beautiful thing as the day of the Silesian uprisings to be a cause for argument in this room. And I certainly wouldn't want it to be a chance to raise a language issue and share Silesians. The saddest thing is that the wife of those (the bell) who here about this Silesian language allowed, did not say it in Silesian, but in Polish. It's sad. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u272	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dziuk, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u273	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you very much to the President of the Republic of Poland, the Silesian Sejm for the initiative. This initiative greatly appreciates the great role of Silesia in the history of creating a reborn Poland. The return of parts of Upper Silesia to Poland after about 600 years occurs shortly after Poland returns to the map of Europe as a sovereign state. That's quite significant. Silesia is an undisputed diamond when it comes to work ethos, patriotic values, religious values and family values. The return of the Upper Silesia to the matrix is an event that showed unity in action over political divisions - the love of our beloved homeland. Our ancestors knew what had to be done. You could say (The bell) that they behaved properly. Hello and praise the heroes! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u274	Thank you, Member. Mr Andrzej Gawron, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u275	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The last few days are good days for the memory of heroic Silesians. They fought for Silesia to return to Poland. Today we are looking at a law that will establish the National Day of the Silesian Uprisings, and just now a draft resolution was adopted in the Committee on Culture establishing the year 2023 by Wojciech Korfantego. This outstanding Silesian dictator of the Third Silesian Uprising, which sealed the integration into Poland of the most industrialized part of Upper Silesia. It was very important in reborn Poland that there was the part that could build its development. I wanted to end (the bell) with the words of Wojciech Korfanty: One thing I am only asking to the Silesian people, namely to be faithful to his Christian principles and his attachment to Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u276	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Gaża, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u277	Mr. Marshal! Minister! [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Marshal.]] Mrs. Marshal! I'm a peasant from Pszczyna, that's where the Silesian Uprising began. It's barely started, it's already been betrayal. The nose, the Silesians, it didn't scare at all. We fought for it a year later, a year later. We had to fight three times to be able to communicate in Silesia now. Therefore, thank you very much to the President for taking the patronage of the century of these uprisings. I did not think that as Silesian I would live to see that the monument of Wojciech Korfantego would be unveiled in Warsaw. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It was a good time for me, and I was there, and I'm proud of it. I also thank the Sejmik of the Silesian Voivodeship for having adopted a resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u278	Thank you, sir. Mr Michał Grammarka, Poland 2050. Please ask me to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u279	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I do not rule out that the rations of those who consider Silesian to be a separate language will eventually prevail, e.g. under the influence of the operation of Silesia in the official space. So much for Prof. Bralczyk, a linguist, one of the greatest Polish authorities in the field of normative language. Has this moment come yet? Maybe the sign for this is: Godosy by ours at the City Hall in Ruda Śląska, and not only in other cities as well. Or maybe the forerunner is the remarkable success of the book Zbigniew Rokity ŻKaj ¿, stories about Upper Silesia, about places that are no longer there, about people who have left, about Silesia, which is not possible today, but which is what we all are and will always remain dear. Or maybe the harbinger of this is the annual meetings under the tender eagle in Tychy, the Polish eagle, the grandchildren of the Silesian insurgents. It was there from 16th to 17th August that the first victim of the First Silesian Uprising - Augustine Decomfortny was killed. This is where the Polish monument stands today. Respect for Silesia and Silesia requires that this time take place as soon as possible. [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u280	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Wojciech Sharama, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u281	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I am very sorry that this wonderful day, which today should be culminated in the unanimous adoption by the Sejm of the law, was used to attack the Polish state. We can discuss differences in Silesia, differences in Poland, how to eliminate them, but we should not lie. It is simply a lie to say that ethnic minorities, national minorities in Poland are being persecuted. At this particular moment in Poland, the emergence of such things is particularly shameful. [[Applause]] Poland is doing its best to make everyone in our country feel the best possible. The help of Poland (The Bell) to those who need this help is quite clear and obvious. I would like to thank Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz from the Civic Platform for saying that we should celebrate this day together, because this is a day of joy. [[Applause]] Let us not look for things that will depreciate this holiday in any way, and do not look for opportunities to harm the Polish state. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u282	Thank you very much, sir. Please, one last question, Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u283	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Polish Socialist Party, I express my joy that there will be a National Day of Silesian Uprising. It is very important that we will worship not only - as Poles usually do - failures, but also successes. It really makes you proud and happy. In addition, if their day is so called. soldiers cursed, some of which even by the IPN have been declared genocide... [[Who?]] ...of course we will strive for this holiday to be abolished - it is all the more joy that we will celebrate the National Day of the Silesian Uprising. As my previous speaker said, I hope that we will celebrate it together, together and joyfully. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u284	Thank you very much. That was the last question. I would like to ask the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Minister Wojciech Kolarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u285	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for these votes, for your kindness and warm words to the President and this initiative to set up the National Day of the Silesian Uprising. I will try to answer many of these questions, which, I think, in the vast majority of them did not question the importance of this project, were not a question of the value of this initiative. On the other hand, they were due to the need to clarify a number of issues, notably date issues. I think this case has gone through most of the questions. I would like to start by saying that this initiative involves the ongoing celebrations of the century of regaining independence. It is here, in this Chamber, that you have taken this decision by adopting a law on the initiative of the President on the celebration of the centenary of regaining independence of the Republic of Poland. This law sets the time limits for such celebrations. The end date of the celebration is the culmination of this great effort of the Silesian insurgents and the final formation of the western border recovered after 123 years of the Republic of Poland. I therefore answer such a question, to a certain malice presented here, that someone was late: no, this initiative goes into its own time. The adoption of this initiative, the adoption of this project will cause that during the century of this event we will celebrate for the first time the National Day of the Silesian Uprising as a national holiday just on June 20th. The second thing: the nature of the centenary of regaining independence was also presented by the President in this Chamber at the meeting of the National Assembly, which began the centenary of regaining independence. This involved the conviction that the celebrations would have value for us, for the Polish state, if they were of a bottom-up, civic nature. This initiative is a manifestation this is the way of celebrating the celebration of the century of regaining independence. This is an initiative that came from local government officials from Silesia, from Opole region. It was supported by local communities, by local leaders and was consulted. Yes, here I answer the question: she was consulted by the representatives of the firm. Hence the day-to-day date, June 20th, is not a random date. This is a date that has its strong historical justification. This is the date that honors the three uprisings. This is not a date related to the I, nor to the II, nor to the Third Uprising. This is the date which ends the insurgent effort of 1919-1921, as well as the moment of the solemn entry of the Polish Army and greeting it by the Silesian people at the head of the dictator of the Silesian Uprising Wojciech Korfanty. I have a few more comments about the date. The date proposed here or discussed yesterday at the committee meeting on 2 May has already been rightly challenged because of the Flag Day of the Republic of Poland and the Polish and Polish Day abroad celebrated at that time. Thus, the meaning of this festival would be much smaller. The adoption of this deadline would also weaken these new holidays that have been celebrated for several years. We would also have a certain accumulation of holidays, because it is on the eve of the 3rd May Constitution. I am absolutely convinced - such voices were also at the committee meeting yesterday - that this date will also meet the purpose of this bill, so that the great Silesian victory, the great Polish victory, the great success of Silesia is celebrated throughout Poland, so that this holiday does not only involve regional memory, local memory, but that it becomes a part of national memory and a reason for pride for us, Poles living today, and for those who will come after us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u286	Thank you very much. Please, the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Simon Giżyński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u287	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I would like to thank the initiators mentioned here many times, the President, the local governments and many social organisations. The Ministry of Culture and National Heritage also has a clear participation in the preparation of the ceremony. I am also thinking of the Silesian Institute in Opole, whose director, Dr. Bartosz Kuświk, as head of the institution giving recommendations and asked for all details, very clearly supported the date of 20 June yesterday at the committee meeting. I would like to thank the authors of the statements completely in line with the Polish state rhyme. Fortunately, these statements did not come from just one club, the Law and Justice Club, but were also from other clubs. Thank you for staying here, in this room, mentioned. But also, and in paradoxically, I thank the authors of these statements, in a small amount presented here, which were premeditated as anti-Polish statements, i.e. simply lying, and if lying, then also anti-Silesian. I am absolutely convinced, I am saying this with great pain that nothing more embarrasses you as Silesians than your anti-Polishness. [[Applause]] I'm going back to some substantive points, because fortunately, they were. It's clear that the end is the end of the work. It was a great triumph. After all, this long-term effort was not only mentioned here, but also paid tribute in the formula of the description. It was a great triumph of Silesians, Polish patriots, but also a great triumph of the Polish nation, all Poles and the Polish state. These are historical facts. This law, which, I think, by a vast majority and a triumphant majority of Polish patriots today, gives only these glorious facts the appropriate, completely obvious, because the elevated symbolism, which was just set on June 20, 1922. There have already been wise and true words about this law, that this memory, which we have written here for detailed chords, is described and excavated, and is pro-curated by this law in the spirit of national and national unity, has a Community dimension, and no whining of whiners will change this fact. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u288	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of the rapporteur of the committee, Ms Violetta Porowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u289	Ladies and gentlemen! I have very briefly, however, to say thanks, a great thank you for yesterday's discussion at the Committee on Culture and Media, where in a really kind, friendly and joyful way, because we are going to have such a celebration, there has been a discussion. Thank you very much to the President - please send my regards - for taking this initiative, for taking the initiative, for calling to establish this wonderful national, repeat, national holiday of the Silesian Uprising. Today's discussion in this Chamber has been fulfilled probably also the purpose of this festival, namely the educational purpose. It is about promoting among young people the knowledge that these Silesian uprisings happened and created the strength, the size of the Republic of Poland. I'm not going to refer to these different threads, the lying threads that appeared from the Left side. Maybe in another discussion we can explain them to each other. On the other hand, there is one thing I would like to advise and recommend to my colleagues in the Left. If you read all kinds of journals, professors' publications, I recommend reading books of famous Silesian Professor Mark, who reminds you so beautifully that Silesian insurgents, Silesian insurgents, who, after all, studied in Bismarck's schools, wrote beautiful Polish letters from the uprisings. Where did they learn this Polish? From the prayer book, ladies and gentlemen. Silence is Polish. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u290	The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005 (Prints Nos 1571 and 2193). I would like to ask Mrs Barbara Bartus to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u291	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased and honoured to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Governmental Draft Law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005. The Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society is one of those acts of the Council of Europe which deal with joint actions to protect and make cultural heritage available, strengthen its role in building identity and diversity, and thus peaceful dialogue between communities forming the heritage of the European cultural and civilization circle. It is a framework as it sets out only general objectives and areas of action. At the same time, it allows the possibility to adopt alternatives resulting from the legal traditions of the country and its policies. The provisions of the Convention shall not restrict or affect human rights and freedoms guaranteed by other international documents, including in particular the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. The provisions of the Convention shall not be interpreted in such a way as to restrict the application of other more favourable standards concerning cultural heritage and the environment resulting from national or international legislation. Furthermore, the provisions of the Convention cannot be used as a basis for any claim concerning cultural heritage. If ratified, the Convention will enter into force in the Republic of Poland on the first day of the month following the expiry of 3 months from the date on which the instruments of ratification were deposited with the Secretary-General of the Council of Europe. The bill itself is only two articles. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 26 April this year. they ask the High Sejm to adopt a draft law from print no. 1571 without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u292	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. I'm opening a discussion. As the first Member of Przemysław Drabek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u293	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen! I am pleased and honoured to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the Government's draft Law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005, in print No 1571. As the rapporteur of the committee said, the Council of Europe Framework Convention was opened for signature by the Member States of the Council of Europe in Faro on 27 October 2005. It is one of those acts of the Council of Europe that deal with joint actions to protect and make cultural heritage available and strengthen its role in building identity and diversity and thus peaceful dialogue between communities forming the heritage of the European cultural and civilization circle. The Convention was ratified by 21 countries and signed by seven more. According to Art. Article 18 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 c entered into force on 1 June 2011. Ratification and implementation of the Faro Convention can become an important step in changing the way decision-makers and the public perceive cultural needs and benefits. The right of every human being to participate freely in cultural life contained in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights also includes the right to cultural heritage. The recognition by States Parties to the Convention that rights relating to cultural heritage fall within this category of human rights is an overriding objective of the Convention. Referring to a broad and general Article. 27 The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Convention indirectly clarifies the scope of this right and supports actions to implement it. In the Polish legal system, the obligation for the Republic of Poland to create conditions for dissemination and equal access to cultural objects and to ensure that everyone is free to use these goods results directly from the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. The provisions of the Article shall apply mutatis mutandis. Article 6 (6) (a) 1 and Article 1 73. The Law and Justice Club supports this draft law and the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u294	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Olichwer, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u295	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club our position on the draft law on ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005. The main objectives of this convention are to build cultural identity, as well as to protect and disseminate cultural heritage for the growth of a common sense of European identity. This calls for wider access and creative use of cultural goods. It should be noted that this agreement is of a framework nature and therefore constitutes a kind of set of demands to be followed by policy-making and national legislation. States called Parties undertake to take steps to ensure greater availability of cultural heritage in order to raise awareness of its value. As a result, action on education, the use of digital technologies is expected to promote culture and combat the illicit trafficking of cultural goods. Ladies and gentlemen! An important message of the Convention is that the rights associated with cultural heritage fall within the category of human rights. Freedom to participate in cultural life, which has been expressed in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, also includes the right to cultural heritage. It is therefore the intention of the signatories to the Convention to involve each person in the process of defining and managing the cultural heritage. It's a very important and wise message. It is also invaluable that we will all benefit from this. Therefore, by representing the Civic Coalition Club, I declare my support for this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u296	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Andrzej Szejna, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u297	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Poland signed the Framework Convention on 10 May 2021 and since then the Convention has been awaiting ratification, exactly a year. This is incomprehensible to me because the values resulting from this convention are not only in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, but also relate to those expressed in the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union and the Treaty on European Union. But this is short, given how law and justice are fighting today with the Court of Justice of the European Union, with the European Commission, with the European Council, with the Council of Europe, with the Council of the European Union and with the whole world. This Convention is a very important act of international law which sort of anchors States Parties to the Convention in Europe's transnational cultural heritage. The preamble of the Convention refers to one of the objectives of the Council of Europe, namely to achieve greater unity between its members, in order to protect and promote ideals and principles based on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, which constitute their common heritage. Thus, human rights, the rule of law and democracy have been incorporated into the cultural heritage by the parties to the Convention. For the purposes of the Convention in Article. 2 The broadest definition of cultural heritage has so far been adopted, which has been defined as a collection of resources inherited from past generations, which people identify independently of ownership rights as a reflection and expression of their values and principles, knowledge and traditions. In view of the content of the Convention, the Members' Club of the Left will vote in favour of the ratification of this Convention. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u298	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mrs. Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u299	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Faro Convention is a dream convention. This includes joint actions to protect and make cultural heritage available, strengthening its role in building identity and diversity. The right to cultural heritage is an opportunity to participate in it, but also to enrich it, i.e. to create new works of art. About 20 years ago, I read an article in a newspaper about Parmigianin's exhibition at a museum in Vienna. So my husband and my daughter and I packed up in the car and went to see this exhibition. We both had jobs at the time, and so the means for such a trip, but above all we had a spiritual need to go there, and Europe without borders made it easier for us to go there. So no one gets us out of this Europe without borders. The Faro Convention obliges states to act in such a way that as many citizens as possible have the means to meet such needs. In his travels with Herodotus Ż Kapusciński wrote: There is such a thing as travel infection. It is known that one trip is more than 10 books read, so the state (Bell) through education should infect this incurable disease. It can't be that some kid doesn't go on a school trip because his parents can't afford it. The Convention also obliges States to ensure that everyone is free and independent in the use of cultural goods. So such actions as Mrs. Nowak, who forbids or alienates from going to the theatre, are prohibited. That should be forbidden. [[Lying is generally forbidden.]] So let us finally ratify this convention. Maybe in our Poland the word "galeria" will regain its meaning and will again be associated with art, not just with a large store.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u300	Thank you very much. And please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u301	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Gentlemen of Ministers! The subject of this draft law today is the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention adopted, as you said earlier, on 27 October 2005. It has so far been ratified by 21 countries and signed by seven more. It consists of recitals and 23 articles. These 23 articles, ladies and gentlemen, this is the essence of this. The aim of this Convention is to protect cultural heritage, strengthen its role in building identity, diversity and peaceful dialogue between communities forming the heritage of the European cultural and civilization circle, and to highlight the importance of cultural heritage dissemination activities for the growth of a common sense of European identity. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 The Convention defines cultural heritage as a collection of resources inherited from past generations, which people identify independently of property rights as reflecting and expressing their constantly evolutionary values of beliefs, knowledge and traditions. Undoubtedly a very important concept, which introduces the Convention in Article. 3, is the definition of a common heritage of Europe. They must be understood as the whole of Europe's cultural heritage, which is a collection of resources as a common source of memory, identity, cohesion and creativity. This concept also includes ideals, principles and values that support the development of a peaceful and stable society built on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. Convention in Article. 5 is an obligation to recognise the right of everyone to enjoy and enrich their cultural heritage. This right will not be subject to restrictions under the Convention other than those arising from the protection of the public interest and the rights and freedoms of other persons. On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I would like to present to you the information that our club will vote in favour of ratifying this convention. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u302	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u303	First of all, one very important question should be asked: Why are we signing another convention? What's in it for us? What will we have in Poland? Why do we make some international declarations, why do we take on some kind of commitment, even if it's foggy? How's it going here? What are these pens always itching to sign? Sign easily, and then when some women come out, there is no one to say, you have no civil courage, just as with the famous pseudo-convention of Istanbul, to which you have proved to be as toothless as your predecessors. The whole convention is a cluster of nothing bringing communals filtered by all standard political correctness filters. More about democracy than about culture. The cultural convention speaks 14 times about democracy and 11 times about peace. Let us read - it is deadly boring, I warn you: Hence, one of the threads of the convention is to promote respect for the cultural heritage of others and to promote cultural diversity in order to highlight the role of cultural heritage in building a peaceful and democratic society. The Convention also expresses its conviction that each person must be involved in the process of defining and managing the cultural heritage, as well as the importance of activities related to the dissemination of cultural heritage in order to enhance a common sense of European identity. And what does that mean? Not much, but there's a multi-culti commendation just in case. The Convention may enhance the potential of cultural heritage in building a democratic society. No, it can't, it's just a piece of paper that doesn't even introduce any specific tools to achieve these goals. The concept of a common European heritage contained in the Convention will contribute to deepening dialogue and thus to building a peaceful and democratic governance. Really? Putin will read, feel and withdraw troops from Ukraine? Or is he gonna get bored to death? It's quicker. The common heritage of Europe also includes ideals, principles and values that support the development of a peaceful and stable society built on respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law, whether developed during times of development or during periods of war and conflict. The role of cultural heritage as a source of peaceful coexistence should therefore be stressed. That's gibberish. There are different cultures, different memes inside these cultures. Some are peaceful and some are not. Cultural heritage is also some stereotypes and prejudices. War songs are part of culture, not peaceful by definition. The ratification of the Convention will support actions to support the implementation of cultural heritage rights as human rights. What's that supposed to mean? Isn't it going to turn out again that we've signed some convention that punishes one man to provide some cultural services to other people under duress because they have some supposed right to do so? We are still, of course, again committed to promoting cultural diversity. So what are we supposed to do? If there's a culturally uniform area somewhere, should we destroy it and replace it with some kind of cultural bigos? Cultural diversity is that different cultures develop in different places, where people approach certain things differently, otherwise solve problems, have different values. This requires that there is a relatively uniform mentality in a given area. There is no other pattern of the formation of cultures except the alternate isolation (the Bell) and the mixing of these cultures. And the European Union is dealing with the rubble of all differences, e.g. fights all patriarchal cultures, not only in Europe but even in the world. So what's this diversity? Especially since, according to the convention, every man individually or together with others is obliged to respect the cultural heritage of other people...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u304	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u305	I'm almost done. ...in the same degree as your own. But how's that? Identifying with our own culture means that we respect it and cherish it more than others. That's it. It's a really big gibberish. I don't understand what an important interest the Republic has in this convention. Until I understand this, until it's explained to me what we're getting here, we'll be against it. [[Applause]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Jobs will be.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u306	Please, Mr Paweł Zalewski Polska 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u307	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It is an honor to act on behalf of the Circle of Poland 2050 on such an important matter. I must say, I am amazed at the appearance of my predecessor, from whom, as a representative of the national interest, I would rather expect everything, not such a nihilism... [[We are not surprised by your astonishment.]] ...nihilism, when it comes to values. Because you can criticize international institutions, you can criticize the Council of Europe, but here... [[But you have to.]] ...she rose to the heights of her accomplishments, because she accepted... Copy that. It is good that after many years Poland has signed, now ratifys this extremely important convention, because concerning our identity, which is cultural, but this means very, very much. It is not only a matter of material heritage, but also the values to which we refer. It is also important that this convention shows that it is possible to speak, defend, preserve cultural heritage, which is by definition different, and this convention recognises it exactly, but in a peaceful way. In a way that's creative that doesn't lead to war. This is also one of the objectives of this convention. Today we can ask whether Russia, which started a brutal war with Ukraine, has not started the process of leaving this great common set, which is Europe's cultural heritage. That's another line. It's good when everything we do, we look at cultural heritage, our identity. In short, we're checking to see if what we're doing is consistent with our identity. This does not only concern material culture, cultural landscape, but also politics here, in this room, conducted. Is this really in line with the values that European culture has developed as a common, or human rights... [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Diversity.]] ...democracy, including the rule of law, the rule of law. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Either one or the other.]] Unfortunately, this review of what constitutes our identity, and the comparison of the policy that is being conducted in this Chamber, and is actually conducted by the majority of the parliament, gives negative consequences. I hope that the government's proposal to adopt this convention will be one of the tiny stones to build consent also in this room and return to the values that fund us. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u308	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u309	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the position of the PPS Parliamentary Circle on the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005. Art. 1a The Council of Europe Statute talks about achieving the greatest possible unity between the members of the Council in order to protect and implement the ideals and principles which constitute a common heritage of the Member States and facilitate economic and social progress. This Convention meets all these requirements and is needed to deepen integration between the members of the Council of Europe. This will strengthen cultural diversity while maintaining social cohesion and will be part of the promotion of intercultural dialogue. Through the Convention, culture will be more accessible, which involves social development and continuous improvement of the quality of life of citizens. The right to cultural goods is widely accepted as second generation human rights, as are economic and social rights. The document complements the European Convention for the Protection of the Architecture Heritage of October 1985 and the European Convention for the Protection of the Archaeological Heritage of January 1992, and, what is very important to us, the addition of the article. 73 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which speaks about freedom of use of cultural goods. An integrated approach to cultural heritage will support culture as an element that affects not only society but also the economy and will increase the ability to allocate additional funds to this area of the economy. The Parliamentary Circle of PPS fully supports the draft ratification act. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u310	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to ask another question? I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis. Time - 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u311	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! Today we're talking about a convention that's gonna grow up in a few months. It is worth commending the United Right that she only needed seven years to lean on the problem and present it to us at today's session of the Sejm. Will it be soon, I will leave the evaluation to the Poles and Poles. The regulations relating to cultural heritage will finally be implemented, implemented. Just one question: what took you so long? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u312	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u313	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, I would like to offer my warmest congratulations to the Minister for the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage. I hope and express it from this place that ratification of this document will stop all: Members of the PiS, Ministry of Culture and the Minister personally from what you wanted to do, the way you wanted to please Viktor Orbán and pass on one of the most valuable Polish manuscripts to Hungary - I mean the Corwin Code, which has been in the resources of the Academic Library in Torun since the 16th century. I believe that the return to the subject of this gift will not be and that you will have the courage and you will say as a government that it is impossible to transfer this monument to Hungary under the Faro Convention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u315	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! I think we need to build awareness in our country of the positive impact of culture on social development and economic development all the time. By interacting with culture, society develops, economy develops, culture builds in us the ability to think creatively, but more importantly, to cross certain mental patterns. I think today such awareness is extremely important. It is also important in all of this to be able to interact with different cultures - not the one appointed by authority and recognized as compatible with some paradigm governed by political authority. Therefore, the question to the Minister as to whether the government, as well as other government agendas, the curatoria will cease to interfere with creative freedom, which we have unfortunately had no pleasure in observing in recent years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u316	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Prokop-Paczkowska, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u317	High Izbo! Minister! The Faro Convention was created after the war in the former Yugoslavia as if in response to the huge cultural losses resulting from the war. Now we're going to attack Russia on Ukraine. Ukraine is also a cultural heritage, so often linked to our Polish cultural heritage. The Lviv painting gallery is also a canvas of our masters. I want to ask you: Do we as Poland help, or does our government also help Ukraine to safeguard its cultural heritage?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u318	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Franciszek Sterczewski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u319	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It is worth noting that the Faro Convention calls cultural heritage, among others. human rights and the rule of law. Your policy has made us live in a country where these values have been broken for seven years. Someone who at the beginning of your reign was 18 years old, today is already after college and thinking about immigration, because he does not want to live in Budapest or Moscow, in Warsaw, because he sees you moving Poland from European democracy towards Eastern authoritarianism. The Faro Convention recognises that European cultural heritage is the basis for identity and security of both Poland and Europe. So if you want to be consistent, then act in accordance with the provisions of this convention. Begin working with citizens and citizens instead of taking away their fundamental rights. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you carefully read the text you want to ratify now, perhaps you will understand that each country is as strong as its democracy and culture is. More courage and consequences. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u320	Thank you. Please, Mr Piotr Adamowicz, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u321	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ministers! The Convention we are dealing with dates back to 2005, came into force after 6 years. Poland signed the document 10 years after its entry into force, i.e. 2021. To date, 21 countries have become parties to the Convention. The document is essentially not controversial. I would therefore ask for clarification of the reasons for such a long process of full acceptance by Poland of the Convention. Question two: Are we still waiting for a document of international importance within the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, which should also be addressed? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u322	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u323	Another legal act, which introduces into the Polish cultural space also - unfortunately not only to the legal structure - the speech of grass, Marxism, Leninism, baldnessism (Applause) in a pill which is as indigulable as it is presented here, beautifully interpreting, my venerable colleague Dobromir Sosnierz. But aside from that, I understand that this is the wisdom of the stage that you have to implement, so you are implementing. But I have a question, Minister. I have seen some reservations raised by the Kingdom of Spain in this convention. The Kingdom of Spain reserves - as if nothing, a small thing - that this convention can only be interpreted in a manner consistent with its current legislation. The legislation of Spain (the Bell) and all that concerns the patrimonio Nacional, the national heritage of Spain. The question is, did you consider, on the basis of procedural caution, the Minister to bring in anything unharmed, and yet the reservations that no one would use this convention to sip what follows here from these joyful speeches of the Left on the left, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u324	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u325	They are pleased that they will also discipline the Republic. with regard to the judiciary. It's subjective. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u326	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Magdalena Łośko, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u327	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society states that states, or parties to the Convention, recognise that the rights of cultural heritage belong to human rights. One of the objectives of the Convention is to recognise individual and collective responsibility for cultural heritage. I hope that Poland will comply with its rules and regulations when ratifying this convention. And monuments of exceptional historical and artistic value, such as. as the Corwin Code - the manuscript of the Copernican Prince, will be protected to a greater extent from attempts to hand them over to proputinist and pro-Russian politicians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u328	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u329	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft ratification law was submitted in September 2021. The Convention raises no objections. So why are we so late to adopt the ratification bill when the PiS was able to pass the laws within 1, 2 days without any discussion? And it's laws that really need to be discussed. Has the government made use of this time and prepared the necessary changes to the rules? And if so, what exactly is the government planning to amend in connection with the ratification of the convention? Is there, for example? prepared draft implementation of the Convention on the Establishment, pursuant to Article. 17 The Statute of the Council of Europe, a committee that will monitor the implementation of the Convention, or will it be any (the bell) already existing committee? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u330	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left. There isn't. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u331	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We have learned from Mr Adamowicz's speech that this draft convention is uncontroversial, which means in the translation into Polish that it can be signed or not signed and does not make the slightest difference. On the other hand, I wanted to ask how it is that we ratify this convention when, for example, it is. cultural goods are not being made available to people at the moment, but on the contrary. E.g. In the basements of the National Museum there are tens of thousands of paintings that could hang around houses and be seen by people, and that's how they hang in basements and people can't see them. How come we don't have access to cultural goods because we're getting away with it for political reasons or for other reasons? As it happens, because cultural goods have always been valued, now they go into millions, the prices of cultural works go into millions, and we still want to protect it. If we want to protect it even more, I ask. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u332	Thank you very much, sir. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Jarosław Sellin: However, I must.]] The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Jarosław Sellin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u333	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Many of the questions that have been raised in this debate have been a little sidelined by the essence of this convention and the political plan to ratify it. But I think that some of the questions were so important that you just have to answer them. There were a lot of questions about why we waited so long to ratify, why it was taking so long. I would like to remind you that the Council of Europe is an organisation that brings together all European countries and not just the countries of the European Union, so there are about 50 countries here, not 27. If you have ratified 22 countries - in your memo you will read that 21, but Spain has recently joined this, as Mr Braun rightly pointed out - it means that not even half of the European countries have ratified it yet. So if we do it now, we will be halfway through the European rate when it comes to ratifying this convention. Mr Jan Szopiński and Mrs Magdalena Łośko were concerned about a really controversial discussion about the Corwin Code from the Copernican Princess in Toruń. Let me just say this: in my opinion, the fact that this really controversial discussion took place turned out to be good for the quality of the public debate, because Mrs Magdalena Łośko and Mr Jan Szopiński certainly learned that such a treasure in one of the Polish libraries of mom. [[Applause]] I suppose, before this discussion broke out, they probably didn't know that we had something so valuable in one of the Polish libraries. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: 100%.]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń actually formulated such an insinuation - I do not know how to respond - in the question: Why are we interfering with creative freedom? If you want to copy this, write some interpellation, because I say fully responsible that we do not interfere in creative freedom in Poland. Małgorzata Prokop asked a very important and interesting question: How do we help Ukraine? I'm glad to hear it because I want to say a few words about it. Well, I have now arrived in a seym directly from the Ministry, from a long-term meeting with the Deputy Minister of Culture of Ukraine and with the Deputy Minister of Culture of Lithuania. The point is that within the framework of the Lublin Triangle we launch a special fund, jointly constructed by Ukraine, Lithuania and Poland, helping Ukraine to digitize its cultural goods especially in those places where they are particularly threatened. The digitisation programme in Ukraine has not been very ambitious so far, so at the beginning of the conflict, the Russian invasion of Ukraine, we have established a special crisis team, which has been working since the beginning of Ukraine's aid. This is a very tangible, very material aid. Several dozens of major TIR transports have already gone to Ukraine, bringing materials that were requested by cultural people themselves, directors of various institutions, especially museums, libraries, archives. These are very specific materials that protect their moving collections or landmarks from fires, from the possibility of destruction caused by bombs or rockets or blows associated with these explosions. These are very specialized materials that allow them to secure it. We are also prepared for this, and the Ukrainians also know about it, so that if necessary moving cultural goods from Ukraine will be accepted in Poland and protected here. We have prepared specialized places and specialized transport. However, the Ukrainians themselves said that such actions would result from their sovereign decisions. There aren't any such requests yet. We're ready, but no such requests yet. If something is being saved in Ukraine's territory from war destruction, it is rather on the basis of moving from place to place within the borders of the Ukrainian state, of course rather from east to west, but not yet abroad. I hope that Ukraine will not be forced to make such decisions, but we are prepared if necessary. Of course, we are also helping Ukraine in various international actions aimed at throwing Russia out of international organisations that deal with culture, and that is successful, and eliminating Russian propaganda channels from international space, of course within the free world, the Western world, and that also succeeds. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What about the dissemination of cultural goods?]] With regard to Mr Braun's attention, to some extent the same question as Joanna Senyszyn's, it concerned the fact that Spain had warned that it would not make any changes to the law. Mrs Senyshin asked if we would make any changes to the law. I would like to inform you that this convention is more of a manifesto, a set of guidelines, and it does not require any changes in the law. All the things that this convention draws attention to are actually consummated in the Polish Antiquities and Monuments Protection Act, the Museums Act and the Library Act, so no legal changes resulting from the ratification of this Convention are planned. And last question, interestingly, maybe it's worth saying a few words about it. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke asked why we have so many works in storage. We have so many works in the magazines, sir, because we have a wealth of resources and not everything can be shown at permanent exhibitions in our museums. Indeed, very often in many museums, especially national ones, the biggest ones, 90% paintings, sculptures, porcelain, various moving monuments are in warehouses, but that does not mean that they are not shown. It's just that there's no room to show everything, and no one can stand it... [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: People need...]] ...but they are rented for temporary exhibitions. Please note that apart from permanent exhibitions in museums, there are also temporary exhibitions in the galleries. In this case the painting, sculpture or porcelain - whatever is related to the subject of a given temporary exhibition, is rented and shown at this exhibition. This exchange often takes place even between museums. Also if you had the opportunity, because you probably had the opportunity to visit various types of state offices, whether voivodship or state offices, in Warsaw, throughout the country and not only in Poland, you probably noticed that a lot of paintings, for example. It's hanging in public places, in these offices. They enjoy the eye, and they're from museum magazines. It's about not being in those museum magazines, it's about enjoying the eye somewhere. They decorate public places, places of state administration, local government and voivodship. It's perfectly normal. Around the world there is a phenomenon of excess collection, which must be kept in magazines for temporary exhibitions or for scientific research - because, of course, these magazines are often used by scientists who want to write a monograph of one painter or some style, etc. On the other hand, the availability of these stored works shown from time to time is increasing on the Internet. Museums have such ambition to show not only what is shown on the Internet at permanent exhibitions, but also what is shown in storage resources, which is shown from time to time on the occasion of various temporary exhibitions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u334	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Szopiński is still being corrected. Here you go, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u335	Dear Minister, I would ask very kindly that you do not insult me and insinuate the Polish public that thanks to this discussion I learned about the Code of Corwin. If you had carefully read the interpellations which I directed on the one hand to the Minister and, on the other hand, to the Prime Minister of Morawiecki - I have often spoken from this place - you would know that for two terms I was Deputy Marshal of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie Voivodeship and I in this province created the conditions for the Korwin Code to be well kept in this library to have a proper place. I owe you my word, sir. I'm sorry. I look forward to seeing to what the Prime Minister wrote to me in March. It was written that the matter was the subject of an analysis of the resorts, that the government's position would be prepared after obtaining these opinions (the bell). I look forward to this position of government. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u336	Thank you very much. Mrs Magdalena Łośko is still being corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u337	Yes, sir. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Minister, perhaps you'd prefer the public not to know about this fact at all. Then, in fact, this manuscript would have been long gone in Poland. You guys like that under the cover of the night. If not for discussion on this issue, this manuscript would have been long gone in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What would happen?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u338	Thank you. The discussion is closed. We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law amending the law - Geological and mining law, the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws (print No 2205). I ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets of Mr Piotr Pyzik to present the justification for the project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u339	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! With regard to the Law on the Amendment of the Law - Geological and Mining Law, the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws, I would like to highlight two aspects of this legislation. Namely, the purpose of the Act is to make changes in two areas: the reorganisation of the mining body, which is the Specialist Mining Authority, and to introduce the definition of the openwork, mine and ancestor in the Social Insurance Fund Act. Issue one: reorganization of the Specialist Mining Authority. The changing organisation of underground mining plants resulting from the decommissioning of mines affects the number of sites under the supervision and control of the SUG director. The above translates directly into the non-use of the SUG's organisational and staff resources. In view of the facts, it is appropriate to optimise the organisation of mining supervisory authorities by transferring the powers of the Director of the SUG to the President of the Higher Mining Authority. Amendment of the Act - Geological and mining law concerns the reorganisation of the Higher Mining Authority. The solution adopted in the proposed act includes the abolition of the Director of the Specialist Mining Authority, the liquidation of the office serving it and the transfer of these powers to the President of the Higher Mining Authority. SUG employees will be transferred to the Higher Mining Authority. The proposed changes, which is worth noting, will not increase the expenditure of mining supervisory authorities from the state budget. The President of WUG is the sole authorising officer of part 60 of the State budget. The possible costs arising from the transfer of the current tasks of the SUG Director to the responsibility of the President of the WUG will be covered, inter alia. from the financial resources obtained as a result of the abolition of the SUG. In 2020, the maintenance costs of the SUG and the running costs of the SUG Director amounted to PLN 123 700 gross. The proposed changes will have a positive impact on cost optimisation and a more efficient and rational use by the President of the Higher Mining Authority of its resources. The proposal was fully accepted by the President of the Higher Mining Authority. The second point is the question of definition. The Social Insurance Fund's Pension Act introduces definitions of discoveries, mines and an ancestor. The introduction of the definition of explorer, mine and ancestor aims to clarify and complement mining concepts. They were formulated after consultation with industry professionals and social partners and employers. The proposed wording is intended to enable the Social Insurance Institution to process employees' applications for mining pensions efficiently without having to refer cases to the courts and extend the pension decision over time. The potential consequence of an increase in the number of pension benefits granted is an increase in the number of proceedings conducted by the Social Insurance Institution and a reduction in the number of cases addressed to labour and social security courts. The draft law was adopted by SKRM at its meeting on 27 January this year. During the meeting, the Minister of Family and Social Policy informed of the acceptance of explanations by the Ministry of State Assets and the withdrawal of all comments. March 30th this year SKRM confirmed the completion of the project. The Ministry of Family and Social Policy has submitted comments on the addition of the justification to what has been done. The amendment is only intended to clarify the existing rules and not to introduce a new legal order. What's important is that it doesn't affect the proceedings that have already been completed. The entry into force of the proposed rules will not result in the granting of pension benefits to unauthorised persons, but will merely simplify the way in which pension applications will be processed. In the current legal situation, the differences in the scope of the above-mentioned concepts of pension benefits are often granted only at a judicial stage, often at second instance. Clarification of concepts will lead to a positive examination of many pension applications already at the pension authority stage without the need for judicial decisions. As a result, the entitled will receive the benefits due more quickly and the Social Security Office will not be forced to pay interest on the pensions granted by the pension court. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u340	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u341	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club will support the amendment of the law - Geological and Mining Law. The amendments to the Act, which relate primarily to the organisation of the Higher Mining Authority, will clarify pension issues and arrange them for the Social Security Office. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u342	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u343	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition would like to present its position on this bill. The government is amending the law - Mining and Geological Law. As part of the proposed amendments, he wants to liquidate the Specialist Mining Authority and the position of the director of this office, whose supervision is subject to mining shaft lifts, main fan stations, control panels and dispatchers together with communication systems, equipment, installations and electricity networks that supply high and medium voltage facilities, machines and equipment. What you're talking about is that the cause of the change is the elimination of the mines and the change in their system. It seems to me that the basic question that should be raised today in the High House is: In the light of what happened in mining, in the light of the tragedy of 26 miners and rescuers who died in two mines - Pnievek mines and Zofiówka mines - such changes should be made, the office should be wound up. The basic question is: Will the liquidation of this office contribute to improving the safety of miners' work? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] I would like the government to say this clearly to the miners. Will this change lead to this? Who are you calling? The President of the Higher Mining Authority has appointed a committee to explain the reasons. The Minister of State Assets Sasin has appointed whom? A special committee headed by Minister Pyzik. It's the second team. This special committee is to prepare possible proposals for Polish legislation. Perhaps he walks, among other things. It's about this bill. Minister, shouldn't this be stopped? Wouldn't it be better to make these changes when the committee has proposals? Today, most of all, changes are necessary to the law regarding the subordinates of the central government body, the Higher Mining Authority. We need to get him out of the Minister of State Assets. There's all the mining, but there's also control. The Prime Minister's supervision needs to be handed over. If you don't, if the government doesn't make the amendment, we, the Civic Coalition, will bring it in. Come to your senses. Today, widows and orphans are also looking at how this matter will be clarified. When this office is directly subject to the Prime Minister, we will have transparency as to what might happen. People won't comment. There will be no suspicion of the results and conclusions of the audit. Prime Minister, I call on you to make these changes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u344	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u345	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Thank you for the second part of the bill, which is a very pro-social part. We have been asking for this for a long time, because my office and probably many offices have received many protests from miners since 2017, who could not retire with an index of 1.5, because the ZUS began to reinterpret the catalogue of mining works on the discoverer and on the ancestor in its own way. This is because - this is how the ZUS informed me - there is no definition of an ancestor and there is no definition of an ancestor. These definitions are being introduced at the moment, but, Minister, the bill identifies the discovery with the mining plant. I have doubts as to whether it is a good thing that printing 2205 took a slightly different shape than the original draft law of 9 December 2021, because there, in that part, was the deletion of the discovery, the deletion: on the discoverer, was the identification of the whole mining plant with the mine. And now here's the situation, that despite this definition, at the moment the mine is liquidated, the owner will have to apply to the WUG for approval of a new traffic plan. And the new traffic plan, the moment this mine no longer meets its basic functions, will it be what? Historical? Therefore, wouldn't it be better (the bell) to keep the original bill, to do more with the catalogue of mining works that would enable this work? Your marshal, just one sentence. The dramatic situation especially concerns workers - train drivers, mining workers in PAK, who have to deliver their labour to the power plant. They're already being treated as those...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u346	Finish your work, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u347	...who are off the grid, which means at this point outside the mining plant. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u348	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. Sorry, Mr Maciej Necessary, Left. Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u349	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The main objective of this law is the liquidation of the Specialist Mining Authority and the acquisition of its competence by the Higher Mining Authority. It is therefore a question of reducing the number of mining supervisors, which is probably neither good nor bad in itself. The devil may as usual be in the details. And those in the government's explanatory memorandum, I'll admit, I'm a little short. The second important element is the definition of mining concepts so that pension rulings are more explicit and to relieve labour courts, which is what is supposed to be right and worth supporting, so it is just a matter of technology how to do it right. The main motivation behind the liquidation of the Specialist Mining Authority, transmitted by the applicants, is that it is intended to limit mining activities. I'm getting a little lost here, I'll admit, because it sounds logical that since the mines will be less, the miners will be less, we can probably also afford less extensive supervision and work on it. Only the Specialist Mining Authority deals with shaft infrastructure of mines. This is the part that stays and functions also after the mines close, and long after the mines close. So we're shutting down this particular institution that doesn't have to disappear at the time of the extraction. I understand that this is about the acquisition of these powers by the Higher Mining Authority. The question is whether this acquisition is fully possible and whether it will not take place at a loss. Because, of course, we're talking about taking over people. It is a great guarantee that all SUG employees will find a job. The question is whether their competence in connection with this difficult consolidation will be fully prepared. That's not a reservation, that's a question. I hope that also during further work we will ensure that these competences are properly exercised, that it will not be so that any of these important functions of the institution being wound up will be performed worse than before. But the question is: Why now? If this translation of mine closures doesn't quite cover the subject, why now? The next question concerns the context in which this decision is taken. Because we do not really know what the nearest fate of Polish mining will be. One year after the signing of the government's social agreement with the miners, there was no EU notification. We hear about ongoing conversations all the time, but time passes, and there are no details. So how do we know if we're going to be dealing with the planned closure of the mines according to the social contract, or are we going to have chaotic armageddon in mining again? These are very different contexts, which are probably less relevant to this law, but all decisions concerning mining are in a state of great uncertainty at this point. Moreover, there is a question of the consequences of the Russian assault on Ukraine and its impact on the fate of Polish mining. The European Commission declares that it is ready to review the decarbonisation assumptions so far in view of the need to ensure Europe's energy security. In theory, this should make it easier for the Polish government to talk to the European Commission about notification of plans to support Polish mining, but the results are still missing. So we do not know where we stand, and this is of course a big problem in the context of the future fate of Polish mining and mining regions, greater than in relation to this particular law. Speaking of mining surveillance bodies, it is impossible not to refer to recent tragic accidents in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. The tragic death of so many in two separate cases must prompt us to reflect on the safety of people working in mines. Not all mines will be closed. Tragic accidents took place in coal mining mines, which remains the strategic raw material of the European Union. These mines will not only not be closed, but we have the right to suspect that, due to global turbulence, the pressure to increase mining can only grow. Energy coal mines will also be with us for many years. We therefore need a fair explanation of the causes of the accidents. And here I would like to subscribe to the request already made by the Civic Coalition that the Higher Mining Authority be placed under the Prime Minister's authority. This is also a postulate formulated by mining trade unions. This amendment will certainly be worth supporting. What is important is that we need the necessary investments in the safety and efficient operation of mines to continue. In responsible positions in mining, there must be professionals, not politically speaking people. It is important that the prospects of moving away from energy coal, chaos and uncertainty do not make us neglect the safety of miners working in mines. This can't be at the expense of security. Here neither attention nor competence (the bell) nor money may be missed. We are ready to work on these proposed solutions as part of the further work of the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u350	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u351	Dear Marshal! Minister! We are discussing changes in mining management, changes in structures, and I think we must always support good changes, good proposals. There will be time to discuss these matters more widely on the committee, but, as has been said here, we are all under an unpleasant impression and after an unpleasant experience of what has happened recently. Miners and rescuers died in our mines, and that's what's most important, that's drama. In mining, we should always bear in mind, above all, the need to ensure safe working conditions for miners, because that is the most important thing. It is important not how much coal we extract, but how we can protect these people from disasters, as well as how we should organize and plan the entire structure and activities where the greatest threat to life and health arises. [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: What does this have to do with the bill?]] Today, sir, we have a passage in the mining industry, because we once say that we need coal, and another time we do not need coal. But what are we watching? The rising price of coal not only in us, but also in the world, which translates into energy prices. This must be said out loud, because it is not only about mining coal itself, but also about subsequent consequences. Do we now have a vision of how much coal we're going to be mining and are we going to change again? Because there are a lot of changes, they're too frequent, and it has an impact, as someone here said, on the chaos that is created throughout the mining industry, because they're people who work and want to have stability and certainty that if we eliminate something, they'll know what time it's going to be and what's waiting for them. Polish People's Party - Coalition Poland has been in favour of reducing the number of people employed underground, for bringing these people out of the ground, because this work is dangerous anyway. At present there are opportunities to obtain other employment, better, easier, better paid, it is possible to obtain cheaper energy. This is what needs to be done and everything needs to be done to make it work for us. We will work on this law and we will support the correct amendments that will be tabled, but, as I said, it is important to see what awaits us in the future when it comes to coal. It is about concrete actions, not about laws or agreements created under pressure from protests or strikes. [[Member Janusz Korwin-Mikke: For example: accidents.]] This should be a long-term agreement that will allow to create a vision of how to operate in the near future, as well as in the future mining in Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u352	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Winnicki, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u353	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The good old saying says, can you count? Count on yourself. If you can count on yourself in terms of energy, then do it. If we can base our energy security on our national resources, then until that changes, we cannot withdraw from it. And what happened in the last six years, seven years? We've got some twists with completely opposite vectors. The first two years of PiS rule are a period of great, constant propaganda. I remember today's news of TVP: We defend mining. We're defending mining. They wanted to sell, we're defending. They wanted to shut down the mines, we're defending. After 2 years there was a 180-degree change: we close, we eliminate mining. The Union has ordered, we sign the elimination of mining. So? The answer was a growing import of Russian coal. This is the sad reality of our governments. The geopolitical situation has changed, there has been a crisis when it comes to Russian coal, because there is a war in Ukraine. So? It is necessary to increase mining in Polish mines. And there's pressure, and the question is, how much pressure this pressure, to increase domestic mining as much as possible, affects the safety of work in these mines. So the approach is the opposite, and there's been a third major change in six years. One of the fundamental issues of energy policy, mining policy, is a ridiculous trick in your hands. [[Applause]] You are unable to define any serious and long-term strategic policy, because once you are afraid of the Union, once you are afraid of Putin, and you never think about what we have as a country in our own resources. What's more, in this shamotan, not when you were supposed to be on coal, you weren't building it. A nuclear power plant as a possible replacement, and you didn't do it at the moment you started pulling out of coal mining. You leave the country with no alternative, and you know it. Stop embarrassing yourselves because you are endangering not only energy sovereignty, not only the interests of every Polish household that bears the cost of your stupidity and energy-freeness, but also the security of coal miners due to your tragic (Dawn), irresponsible, boyish policy that you are pursuing in the field of mining and energy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u354	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u355	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 on the governmental bill amending the law - Geological and mining law, the Act on pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen! This bill concerns de facto two areas. The first is linked to the clarification of pension provisions and includes definitions of the words "discovery', "mine' and "fore-end'. Of course, such clarification of definitions, which clearly formulate powers or are used to formulate and determine pension rights, is extremely important and necessary, there is no doubt about it. This second area of the Act concerns de facto the liquidation of the Specialist Mining Authority and the inclusion of its cells, the inclusion of the remaining areas after the liquidation in the institutions of the Higher Mining Authority. And this, of course, is justified in a situation where we are forecasting a reduction in extraction, a departure from fossil fuels, this decision has some reasonable grounds. The devil, on the other hand, is in the details, and the most important thing here is security. The word is supposed to be detailed, but it is a key issue from the point of view of the operation of mining in Poland. We are fresh from very tragic events in Pavlovice, which is very painful for me personally, and in Hawk-Zdrój. It seems that these administrative changes are perhaps important, but in some way during the process of dealing with these changes we are missing the issue of security. Because I would really understand all these changes if the Ministry had presented a comprehensive idea here, a plan for how to strengthen security issues. Today we know that in many mines... And here we have coal mines, coal, which is the strategic raw material of the Union, which means that we need to look at mining issues. in the long run. And we know that miners working in such mines have doubts as to whether this level of safety is adequate and whether those responsible for security ensure that security policy is implemented to the appropriate extent. And now, Minister, administrative changes to administrative changes, but I ask: Where is the security issue in all this? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Poland 2050 will raise and highlight security issues during the debate and discussion on this project, because this is a real challenge in Polish mining today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u356	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u357	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Mr. President! The governmental bill amending the Act - Geological and Mining Law, the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws concerns the liquidation of the Specialist Mining Authority, which will consist in transferring the authority's competence to the scope of operation of the Higher Mining Authority. This is directly linked to the declining number of mining plants resulting from their liquidation. The Specialist Mining Authority includes the whole country, as well as the WUG. The President of WUG is a mining supervisory authority in the first instance. It is therefore justified to delegate the competences and tasks performed by the Director of the Specialist Mining Authority to the President of the Higher Mining Authority. To this end, changes are made to the WUG organisation, and appropriate organisational cells will be set up to carry out the existing tasks of the Specialist Mining Authority. Knowledge and experience of existing employees of the Specialist Mining Office will be developed as part of the new and current tasks of the president of WUG. To date, the employees of the Specialist Mining Authority will carry out their tasks in a properly changed structure of the Higher Mining Authority. The amendment of the Social Insurance Fund Pension Act provides for the harmonisation of names, concepts such as discovery, digging, ancestoring, which will remove doubts and improve judgment in pension matters. This is a clarification and complement to mining concepts, which will lead to a reduction in the number of cases addressed to labour courts and social security. So far there have been doubts as to which periods should be counted 1.5 times in determining the right to mining pension. The amendment of the Act will allow workers working in lignite mines or sulphur mines to anticipate the actions of state authorities. The changes will ensure that employees are fairly and legally sound in their pension decisions. The proposed amendments to the laws are compatible with European Union law and do not require consultation of the Union institutions. The project was consulted with employers' organisations and the social side. Therefore, as the Circle of Poselskie Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy, we are in favour of further proceding the bill. We believe that the direction here is good, because even though there were few brown coal mines, in each mine different definitions of particular mining areas were formulated differently, and now it will be regulated unambiguously. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u358	Thank you very much. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? If not, I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time - one minute. As the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u359	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about amending the Act - Geological and Mining Law, the Act on Pensions and Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and some other laws. But I wanted to ask you a question - a lot of people are waiting for an answer. The question is, what has the government done so far in the last month as part of increasing the safety of mining operations so that the tragic events that have taken place recently do not recur? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u360	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u361	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This bill is one of the few cases where the proposed legislation leads to the liquidation of positions and not to the multiplication of positions. But in mining, on the basis of what I'm watching, the resort is for itself an executive of regulations, a controller, and often a judge in its own affairs. So maybe sometimes you have to go a step further in the spirit of this project? Maybe you need one. pass on the security of work in the mining sector of the State Labour Inspection, which would perhaps solve problems related to mining control. The transfer of competences and financial resources to these institutions could perhaps free the Ministry of Mining from self-control and increase the level of security. In the meantime, the proposal made to put the Higher Mining Authority under the supervision of the Prime Minister (Dawn) is a good proposal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u362	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u363	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In recent days in Silesia much has been written about mining tragedy. In one of the journals, also published by your option, the title appeared: August 80 demands a security guarantee for miners who will talk about mistakes. I wanted to ask you if, in any way, Prime Minister Sasin is going to support this kind of action by miners who are supposed to know more about this tragedy, about negligence and want to say anything? Are you planning on protecting these miners? Of course, another journal writes: After the tragedy in the mine of Pnowówek - let those who have started the staff carousel in the company look themselves in the eye. Are you familiar with this subject and these articles? Will there be an investigation in this regard, and will you explain it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak. Mr Mirosław Suchoń is preparing. We need to turn up the pace for the vote to start on time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u365	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I'm going back to the case of employees who are, for example. miners. They have a dilemma that they can be treated in the light of this law like those who, however, are outside of the mining plant, because they deliver the spoil from the quarry to the coal storage area at the power plant. These are two different entities, and here may be a misunderstanding of the case. They may not get the powers they deserve. However, if we had just brought a case, as in your original project, to that it was only in the mine and not in the mine's discovery, then there would be no significant extension of the catalogue of mining works. The miners who include the transport of the extracted deposit outside the mining excavation area (Dawn) and works which are partly carried out in and partly outside the excavation site would enter into the perimeter of this change and carry out the tasks of the catalogue of mining works. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u366	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. Mr Wojciech Saluga is preparing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u367	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I'm gonna bring up the safety issue because he's extremely important today. I wanted to ask and ask for an answer in writing. What actions, which systemic changes are planned to be carried out by the Ministry in the area of monitoring methane concentration in mines? Today it is a very, very, very sensitive area in terms of monitoring and compliance with safety rules. It seems that miners know this, expect changes that will make this supervision real, not rugged. Question: "What is the Ministry going to do on this matter in the system layer?" Please respond in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u368	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Saluga. Then Mrs Margaret Navel. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u369	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! We're talking about mining surveillance today. I have questions. Is there an answer to the question of how to resolve a situation when people who may know the truth about what happened in Pnowiek and Zofiówka are afraid to talk about it so that they do not become - I quote one of the vice presidents of the JSW - of the hunter? Is there an answer to the question of how to resolve the situation when the trade unionists of August 80 demand security guarantees from Minister Sasin for those people who want to tell the truth about what happened there? How do I stop this conspiracy of silence and the paramaphic that I call it, the union-party relationships that matter who knows who, not who can do what? Minister, what's the truth about the tragedy in Pnowiday and Sophie? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u370	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Navel. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. You are preparing yourself, Mrs... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr... Tadeusz Tomaszewski, then Mrs Barbara Dolniak. We're picking up the pace to start the vote on time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u371	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The very important issue that this law raises is the question of the interpretation of pension provisions for brown coal miners, including those of Konin-Turkish mines. I would like to ask the Minister whether, after these consultations, from the moment of the submission of the project until today, this part concerning mining pensions is properly written down, because these doubts which Mr Piotr Nowak referred to may cause the miners, instead of receiving benefits, to continue to deal with matters in the courts. The second point concerns the position of the government. The government cannot issue a position on the citizens' bill on internship pensions. There's no government position, no 500,000. He's waiting. When will the government stand on this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u372	Thank you very much. Mrs Barbara Dolniak. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak is preparing. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u373	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you a question about the scale of the cases brought to the courts regarding the recognition of the work of the miners working on the forebear and the discovery as mining work, starting in 2016. The topic appeared in 2016 when the Social Security Office reinterpreted the concept of miners' right to mining pension. So why is this bill so late, given the fact that a number of people had to go to court to fight for their rights there? What will be the case for those whose demands have not been taken into account in terms of different understanding of phrases such as ancestor work or discovery work? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u374	Thank you very much. Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. Mr Przemysław Koperski is preparing to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u375	Mrs. Marshal! I got turned on. Just a little bit. Minister! How much will these changes in supervisory management structures affect the number of people employed? Will this - I mean all supervision - increase or decrease the number of employees? Because it was very often that we changed to increase employment. I'd really like an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u376	Thank you very much. Mr Przemysław Koperski, Left. Next up is Janusz Kowalski, PiS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u377	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In recent weeks, the Silesian Voivodeship has experienced the greatest tragedy in decades. In the mines of Pnowówek and Zofiówka 26 people lost their lives. The families of the victims, the inhabitants, the miners, we, the parliamentarians, demand an explanation of this tragedy, an explanation of this matter and the responsibility of those responsible. And why do such questions arise, that there are guilty persons? Because there were directors in the mines in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, trade unionists are talking more and more about the fact that for many years there have been a number of irregularities in this mine. Therefore, Minister, today it is so important to clarify this matter that the miners who are going to work do not fear for their health, for their lives, and the families and (the bell) loved ones do not tremble about their loved ones. Please inform us whether the liquidation of the SUG will in any way improve the security of the miners. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u378	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. Then Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u379	Ladies and gentlemen! Mrs. Marshal! The current events showed the right of Solidarna Polska, when we said that coal is the fuel of the future. When we look at absolute figures for 2021 compared to 2020, the extraction of hard coal worldwide increased by 5% to 7.4 billion tons. If we look at brown coal and Germany, in the same period the extraction of brown coal in Germany increased by 18%, to 126 million tons. What does this mean? This means that today we should build energy security of Poland, using our own resources, i.e. coal and brown coal. The concept of transitional fuel, i.e. the Eurocrats who wanted to make Poland dependent on Russian gas, must be rejected. Besides, we are in a pre-crisis situation, because in the autumn we may run out of gas due to the lack of infrastructure to bring in gas, and let us remember (the Bell) that Baltic Pipe is not contracted, so there should definitely be a trans-political consensus. Let's invest in Polish coal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u380	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Matusiak, Law and Justice. Then Mr Dariusz Kurzawa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u381	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question: Will these organizational changes of the Higher Mining Authority affect the safety of miners? And now the question to the opposition: Did you also care about the security of the miners in February 2015? As I recall, the candidate for the Civic Platform for the City Council of Jastrzębie-Zdrój was the head of prevention. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u382	Thank you very much. Mr Dariusz Kurzawa, Coalition Poland. Mr Piotr Kaleta is preparing for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u383	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask one question, because restructurings, changes in mining, caused that many tasks, which until now or the 1990s were done by mines, were in the framework of mining works, mining works, then companies, companies were disengaged, many jobs were thrown outside the mining plant, but in fact these people did such works which once qualified them as normal miners. Wouldn't it be worth considering at the moment that these people should also be given mining powers so that they have normal pension allowances, because under the terms on which they are currently employed by companies, they do not have such privileges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u384	Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Kaleta. Then the last question that will be asked by Janusz Korwin-Mikke. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u385	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The question in its content is short: Minister, what do the resources of Polish coal look like at the moment? Whether the question of restoring them or restoring them to the state before the discussion about the Polish green, at all about the green European governance in these times, which came after the tragedy in Ukraine, makes sense and is logical to ask yourself this question and maybe replay it. I am pleased that, after my speech, Janusz Korwin-Mikke will speak because I would have a question for the Confederation, because here it fell out of the mouth of a representative of the Confederation, that the Law and Justice were afraid of the European Union during their reign, and now he is afraid of Putin. I would like to ask, Mr President, are you afraid of Putin? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u386	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u387	No, I'm not scared. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've finally learned that it's going to be defined what ancestor, explorer and mine are. Just a question of how miners have been able to feed so far, without knowing what an ancestor, mine and opener is. Has the word "federal" been defined? Because if we don't, maybe we don't know what those miners are doing. [[Voice from the room: It's getting worse.]] Of course it's, of course, that the purpose of this is to change the law, contrary to what the Minister said. It's just that the lady who's sitting at her desk doesn't have the same rights as the miner at her ancestor. That, of course, is the point. And that's the right thing to do. I have a second question about why the government... It's not the government, it's all the governments that have ruled so far, or they want to close the mines, or they want to support them. And no one's gonna get the idea of privatizing the mines, and then the owner's gonna get tired or shut down or open. And also if there's an accident, the owner will answer and not us. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u388	Thank you very much. That was the last question. And I ask the Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets of Minister Piotr Pyzik to answer the questions efficiently.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u389	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much to all the participants in the debate for a lot of very interesting questions. I will refer, if you allow me, to those specifically referring to the merits of the case, namely the two points which this law deals with. In a special way, I would like to thank those who have taken care of the safety of mining. I hope we meet again in this space. With regard to WUG, the basic question is whether the proposed change affects safety, affects WUG, the safety of mining work, the way the WUG operates. Those who know what's going on know that the WUG is the most important mining institution. Therefore, taking away this function of SUG in our opinion only improves the operation of the Higher Mining Authority. That's one thing. Second line. I don't want, especially in a situational context, to refer to information about some irregularities, some strange stories of people who have such information. The Constitution clearly states that if someone has such information, they should go to the competent authority of the State. That's one thing. The second point is that the Higher Mining Office has been operating so-called for many years. an emergency call from which e.g. You can use it anonymously. But, above all, in our country (Gwar in the hall, bell) the prosecution will decide on the actions aimed at clarifying this matter. And it is the prosecution that is leading the case, and therefore not the Minister, Prime Minister Sasin, not Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, nor my humble person are the recipients of the very exciting information, as it seems. I consider supervision at the Higher Mining Authority by the Ministry of State Assets to be sufficient and sufficient for actions that will enable safe work. I would like to point out, by the way, that mining accidents are not only caused by a human factor, but unfortunately, also by nature, they cause a variety of troublesome situations. What else? Maybe I'll go back to the second issue of pensions and insurance. As regards the issue that Mr Nowak raised, it was indeed in the negotiations with the trade union side, but I do not recall the situation in which the social side would give us an allowance so that we can conclude that there is any agreement on this matter. But this case wasn't moved any further either. Maybe because today instead of being in the so-called. Gold birches in the next talks with unionists, I'm here with you. Maybe this is being agreed at the moment. [[Game in the O.R., bell ringing.]] If not, this will be the subject of a possible new novel. Besides, we're probably gonna talk about this tomorrow at the transformation team meeting. That's one thing. I'm sure we'll be looking at and looking at all these pension and pension solutions, and I'm talking about mining leave, and I'm talking about other solutions that are available to these people, and the catalogue of these posts has been agreed. And that's the point of this novel, which is that we need to precisely define these mining terms so that we know where the man was working in relation to these situations. Because there is another dimension that is most important to all of us, namely social justice. And I find it hard to agree with the solution... Because what I'm gonna tell the nurses, what I'm gonna tell the teachers -- it's not me, the finance minister -- in a situation where, for example, They're asking me to accept solutions where the secretary gets her 14th mining salary. With all due respect, of course, for the secretary's work, but that's what this catalog is all about, that's what these definitions are for. As far as other questions are concerned, if any of you would like any further answers, please answer us in writing. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u390	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, proposes that the Sejm send a draft law amending the Act - Geological and Mining Law, the Act on Pensions from the Social Insurance Fund and certain other laws, contained in print No 2255, to the Committee on Energy, Climate and State Assets for consideration. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. I'm declaring a three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 15 min. 58 hours 16 min 04]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u391	I'm reopening the session. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 2252. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. After obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with the following item: Election of Judges - Members of the National Judicial Council, print Nos 2161 and 2189. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and certain other laws, - amending the Law on the Education System and certain other laws, - the Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team, - amending the Act on Pension Supply of Professional Soldiers and their Families, the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Marshal's Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and their families and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law - Code of Civil Procedure. The reports shall, as appropriate, be in prints Nos 2241, 2242, 2244, 2225 and 2224. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We have formal requests. Please, Mr Boris Budka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u392	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I request a 15-minute break in order to withdraw a shameful, outrageous request (Applause) for a re-election as president of the National Bank of Poland of a man who is responsible for increasing poverty, a man who has no qualifications to take this position. [[Voice from the hall: But we do not call Tusk.]] His only qualification is that he knows President Kaczyński and checks in with you in Nowogrodzka when you need him. Today it is important to consider whether you are doing this on purpose, causing not only greater poverty for Poles, but also generating record profits for banks. Not only did you create the guys, it's the bankster state, because two bankers are responsible for this terrible economic policy of the government. One who became prime minister, and the other you made the most compromised... [[Applause]] [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u393	Mr Budka, I would like to speak to Mr Budka: make your decision, because you have been leaving for at least two months first... [[You're not here to comment.]] ...for press conferences, screaming that we are not voting on this proposal to elect the head of the National Bank of Poland... [[Not this one.]] ...and now you're going out and talking about getting it off the agenda. [[Name.]] [[Applause]] Mr. President, this has been the subject of... [[Voice from the O.R.: Someone normal.]] ...discourses at the convention meeting today and the last... [[A voice from the room: A real bankster.]] ...so I have an opinion... I will not withdraw this, sir. It's on today's agenda. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u394	Mrs. Marshal! I request that the Sejm be adjourned until the PiS considers the senselessness of Glapiński's candidacy as President of the NBP. It's a bust. His choice violates the law. [[Applause]] I know it's everyday for you to break the law, but if you choose a sensible, competent president, he will be in office for six years, while Glapiński will be in office for a year and a half at the most, because after winning the elections to the Sejm we will find his election as a member of the NBP Board for a third term, because the law allows only two terms. [[Voice from the room: Constitution.]] So remember. :Glapa is a PiS flop. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u395	Mrs Senyszyn: one point. Read the analysis. You can't combine board membership with the presidency. President Glapiński is president for one term, and that would be his second term. I've already explained this matter. You're welcome, Mr. Maciej Gdula, Left. [[The Chairman of the Management Board shall not be associated with the Management Board.]] I'm sorry. It's against the law. There you go. [[Voice from the room: Oh, the thinker.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u396	Ladies and gentlemen! I wish there were only bankers who gave such economic growth and so low unemployment. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] There have already been bankers who have just given low unemployment and, at the same time, the lowest wages and downfall of many companies, which is why I am calling for a counter-application in this respect. [[It's Matthew's credit card.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u397	Thank you very much. Mr Maciej Gdula, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u398	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I submit a request for closure (Applause) and the introduction on the new agenda of the Left resolution, which concerns European solidarity and the sixth package of sanctions. Today, during Russia's aggression against Ukraine, we need European unity and we have this unity when it comes to helping Ukraine, we have this unity when it comes to countering Russia's aggressive actions. This sixth package is particularly painful because it concerns the ban on oil imports from Russia, and unfortunately it is blocked by Hungary. Today, the Sejm should object to blocking these sanctions and encourage Hungary to adopt a clear, solidarity-based European policy. I think Law and Justice should really care about that, because Viktor Orbán is their favorite, and you should have this pet but a little... [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u399	Mr President, listen to me, Mr President. Firstly, a request for deferral and at the same time a request to be brought into order cannot be made. That's one thing. Secondly, Mr President, if you were consistent in your resolution and wrote out all the countries that oppose Malta, the Czech Republic... [[But what do you teach Members now, what is this?]] ... Cyprus, and you are calling and calling on the Hungarian Government. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, At least see exactly how many countries have such a position. [[Room voice: Bravo, Maciej!]] [[Touchdown, applause]] Please, Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u400	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Nothing about us without us. Ladies and gentlemen, the inhabitants of Mścice in the municipality of Będzino and Laza in the municipality of Sianów, said also for joining Sianów and Koszalin. Ladies and gentlemen, the Vengeance Council, 4 km from Koszalin through the forest. What's the matter with President Koszalin? It's just that, ladies and gentlemen... [[Statements, Mr. President.]] ...that he's up to 100,000. residents. For 244 business activities in the municipality of Będzino 140 is in Mścice. What do you want to do with the decision of the Ministry of Interior and Administration? Do the second Ostrowice in the West Pomeranian Voivodeship? There is no agreement, ladies and gentlemen, on this, there is no agreement to join Laza's village to Sianów and the Vengeance Council to Koszalin. Ladies and gentlemen, let's respect the people. Let's respect people! Minister, you're welcome. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u401	Thank you, sir. Of course, it wasn't a formal conclusion. Do you agree with me? Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u402	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I'm addressing President Kaczyński. Mr President, the support of President Glapiński today is to promote high inflation, that is to say, to promote the chaos in the economy, that is to say, to support high rates of credit. This is to support everything that destroys the lives of Poles and Poles today. I have a question: What did President Glapiński promise you yesterday that you would continue to support him? [[Voice from the gym: Money, money.]] Is it true that he promised to print you an empty money for the election? For the election promises? Is that true? Poland 2050 wants to confront the President, firstly, with the consequences of his shameful policy, and secondly with expert opinions. Perhaps these rational arguments will get President Glapiński to give up his candidacy honorably, because today voting for President Glapiński would be a school mistake. Madam President! Mrs. Marshal! I request that the vote be postponed until the meeting of the President of Glapiński and the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u403	Thank you very much. Thank you very much, sir. Of course, we've already discussed this matter. Mr President, we have discussed this three times already. Three times. [[Your marshal, but the president didn't want to meet.]] Minister Łukasz Schreiber wants to speak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u404	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The first point is that the state, as usual, is making a fuss, showing a complete lack of knowledge of the law. After all, the constitution clearly indicates that it is the President of the Republic who points to the candidate, and we are voting for him. What don't you understand? That's one thing. [[Voice from the room: Not your candidate.]] Secondly, this wonderful opinion, in your opinion, is that it is President Glapiński, I understand, who is responsible for inflation all over the world. This is a brilliant thesis that the president of Glapiński has been responsible for the highest inflation in the United States for 30, 40 years. Of course I do. That's the second thing. [[What kind of nonsense are you talking about?]] Third case. It's amazing that you're attacking Putin (The Bell) so many times, but when you have to point out the guilt of inflation, you don't see Putin there, you want to cancel the President of Glapiński. Well, we want to get rid of Putin. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] And another case relates to loans and reference rates. Ladies and gentlemen, for Hanna Gronkiewicz-Waltz - 36%, for Leszek Balcerowicz - 19%, 5-6% for your governments. And what's the connection? One. That you didn't have an idea once, you didn't do anything to relieve the borrowers, and you couldn't offer anything, you just increased VAT. And that's the difference. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u405	Thank you very much. We would like to return to the review of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the Government's draft law on amending the Law on perpetual books and mortgage and the Act on the Processing of Criminal Information. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2221. We're voting. Who is in favour of the full adoption of the draft law in print no 2221? Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[Voice from the room: It doesn't work.]] Who doesn't it work with? Please, can you check? 455 Members voted. For -444, against -9, holding off on 2. The Sejm has passed a law on amending the law on perpetual books and mortgage and the law on the processing of criminal information. Members, because I believe this concerns two Members, does it work? 'Cause I think you guys pressed that card... Doesn't it work anymore? Does it work now? Because here we have information that it's working. I think you just pressed after I closed the vote. I'm asking if it's working now. Is it active? Okay. [[Voice from the courtroom: Marshal, the scanner is not working.]] Who? Here, hand to... May I ask you to check the readers there with your fellow Members? You're welcome. One it doesn't work and the Member has switched, but one of the Members says it doesn't work. Who's not working yet? Have you switched Members? Member, can you move to another seat? Okay, thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you to check it out, okay? We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Health Committee's report on the draft law amending the Law on the Occupation of Pharmacy. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2213. We're voting. Who is in favour of the full adoption of the draft law in print no. 2213? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. President, is he working for you? 457 Members voted. 446 - for, 11 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law on amending the pharmaceutical law and the law on the profession of pharmacist. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] We would like to refer to item 10 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the Government's draft law on port reception facilities for ship waste. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2237. We're voting. Who is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 452 - for, no one was against, held back 2. The Sejm passed a law on port reception facilities from ships. We are returning to the review of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Administrative and Home Affairs Commission on the urgent draft law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the Act on Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2240-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mr Sylvester Tulayev to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u406	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present an additional report to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs from print No 2240-A. The Commission presents an additional three amendments. 1. The amendment recommends accepting. Amendment 2 and 3. in the joint vote, proposes that the vote be rejected. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u407	The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2240. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. The adoption of this amendment will change the title of the law. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 224 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 2nd Amendment, with which Amendment 3 is linked. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. Who is in favour of Amendments 2 and 3? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 180 - for, 243 - against, 30 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2240 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 444 - for, 11 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in its territory and the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks. We would like to return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2227. The Commission is also presenting a minority proposal on which we will vote first. In the minority proposal to Article. 1 applicants propose to establish the National Day of the Silesian Uprising on 2 May. We're voting. Who is in favour of the minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 54 for, 397 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no.227, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 436 - for, 4 - against, suspended 12. The Sejm passed a law on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising. [[Applause]] We are returning to the consideration of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on organic farming and organic production. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2190-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Jerzy Małecki to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u408	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present an additional report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Government draft law on organic farming and organic production, print No 2180. Sejm at its 54th meeting on 11 May, which is yesterday, in accordance with Article. For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions shall apply: 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm again referred the draft law contained in print No 2190 to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to examine the amendments tabled at second reading. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, after considering the amendments at its meeting today, proposes that the eight amendments tabled be rejected and recommended that amendments 1 and 3 be voted together, as well as amendments 5 and 7. Of course, the committee requests that the draft law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u409	The Commission calls for the adoption of the draft Print Act No 2190. The Commission in its additional report sets out the amendments that we will be voting on first. We are voting on Amendment 1, which is linked to Amendment 3. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that these amendments be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 1 and 3? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 212 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on Amendment 2. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendment 2? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 212 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 4. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendment 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 212 - for, against - 241, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 5th amendment with which Amendment 7 is linked. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 5 and 7? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 213 - for, 242 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who is in favour of Amendment 6? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 212 - for, 241 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who is in favour of Amendment 8? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 212 - for, 243 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 2190? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 308 - for, 148 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on organic farming and organic production. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry on the governmental draft law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2210-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u410	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Four amendments were tabled to the government bill amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws during the second reading. Today, the committee has bowed to these amendments and recommends that the High House reject the first amendment, adopt amendments 2 and amendments 3 and 4, voted together, and, of course, adopt the entire draft law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u411	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2210. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on the first amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the first amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 213 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 355 - for, 8 - against, with a hold of 87. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment with which Amendment 4 is combined. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 3 and 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 364 - for, no one was against, 90 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2210, along with the amendments adopted, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act - Environmental Law and some other laws. We are returning to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law on the amendment of the Personal Income Tax Act and some other laws. The additional committee report shall be in print 2239-A. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to ask Mrs Gabriela Masłowska to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u412	High Izbo! On 11 May, the Sejm examined the government bill amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. 33 amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Sejm again referred the draft law to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration of these amendments. The Committee on Public Finance, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 11 May, proposes that six amendments be adopted, i.e. Amendment 24, which should be voted on together with Amendment 33 and Amendments 25, 26, 31, 32. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u413	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2239. The Commission also presents a minority proposal and - in an additional report - amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on amendments from 1. to 11. We are voting on Amendment 1, which brings together Amendments 4, 5, 9 and 30. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render amendments 2 and 3 futile. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 1, 4, 5, 9 and 30? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 223 - for, against - 233, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on Amendment 2. The adoption of this amendment will render the 3rd amendment futile. We're voting. Who's in favour of the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 221 for, 233 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the third amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render amendments 7 and 8 irrelevant. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 6th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 207 - for, 240 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 7th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will render the 8th amendment futile. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 7th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 204 - for, 240 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 8. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 8th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 215 - for, 229 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 10th amendment with amendments 11 and 20 to 23. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. The adoption of these amendments will render the minority proposal irrelevant. We're voting. Who is in favour of amendments 10, 11 and 20 to 23? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 224 - for, 232 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on Amendment 12. The Commission requests that it be rejected. The adoption of this amendment will result in the unobtrusiveness of amendments from 13. Up to 18. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 215 - for, 241 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 13. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the 13th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 90 - for, against - 233, 133 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 14th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 14th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 86 - for, 231 - against, 139 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 15th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. Who's in favour of the 15th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 222 - for, 232 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 16th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 16th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 215 - for, 230 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 17th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 17th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 219 - for, 231 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 18th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 18th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 216 - for, 230 - against, 8 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the 19th Amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 19th Amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 224 - for, 228 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the minority proposal. The adoption of this proposal will render amendments 24 and 33. We're voting. Who is in favour of the minority proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the minority's motion. We are voting on the 24th amendment with which Amendment 33. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of amendments 24 and 33? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 242 - for, 161 - against, 54 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on Amendment 25, with amendments 26, 31 and 32. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is in favour of the amendments 25th, 26th, 31st and 32nd? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 233 - for, 31 - against, 190 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendments. We are voting on the 27th amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's in favour of the 27th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 454 - for, 1 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 28th amendment with which Amendment 29. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the amendments 28th and 29th? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2239, together with the amendments adopted? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 246 - for, 40 - against, 170 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on personal income tax and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Public Finance Commission on the Government's draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2226-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Adam Gazwada to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u414	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Three amendments were tabled during the second reading. The Marshal of the Sejm has tabled three amendments to the draft law amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services to the Committee on Public Finance. At its meeting, the Committee on Public Finance examined three amendments and does not recommend their adoption, requests that they be rejected. The Commission also requests that the draft law be adopted in its entirety. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u415	Thank you. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2226. The Commission also presents in its additional report amendments on which we will vote first. We are voting on the 1st amendment with which Amendment 2 is combined. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of Amendments 1 and 2? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 224 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the third amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 2226 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 446 - for, 11 - against, no one held back. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the government draft law amending the Law on the departments of government administration and some other laws. During the second reading, a motion was made to reject the draft law in its entirety. The Sejm decided to join the third reading without referring this draft law back to the committee. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act No 2212. In the first place, I will put to the vote the motion to reject the bill submitted in the discussion. Its adoption will render the committee's proposal unobtrusive. We are currently voting on a motion for rejection. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion to reject the bill in its entirety will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 222 - for, 232 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print no. 2212 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 232 - for, 222 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm will adopt a law amending the Law on Government Departments and some other laws. We are returning to the consideration of item 16 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's Draft Law on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 1571. We're voting. Who is in favour of adopting the bill as a whole in print no. 1571? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 440 - for, 4 - against, abstained 9. The Sejm adopted the Act on the ratification of the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Value of Cultural Heritage for Society, drawn up at Faro on 27 October 2005. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: Report from the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Commission on the application of plaintiff Robert Kwiatkowski, represented by legal adviser Adrian Dworzyński of 8 May 2019, supplemented on 18 June 2019, to the Sejm's consent to the civil liability of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota. On the basis of the article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. 1 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland may be held liable only with the consent of the Sejm. I would like to remind you that the Rules of Procedure, Parliamentary and Immunity Committee is based on Article. 7c paragraph. 5 in conjunction with paragraph 5. The 7th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator proposes that the Sejm reject the request for consent to the civil liability of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota. On the basis of the article. 7c paragraph. 6 in conjunction with paragraph 6. The 7th Act on the implementation of the mandate of Member and Senator Sejm agrees that the Member should be held liable by means of a resolution adopted by an absolute majority of the statutory number of Members. We will vote on the request for consent to the civil liability of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota. We're voting. Who of the Members is in favour of the motion of the plaintiff Robert Kwiatkowski, represented by the legal adviser Adrian Dworzyński of 8 May 2019, supplemented on 18 June 2019, to allow the Sejm to exercise the civil liability of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota for the act specified in this request, would like to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. No one was in favor of -455, 1 holding back. In view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes, the Sejm adopted a resolution not to give its consent to the civil liability of Mr Sławomir Jan Piechota for the act specified in the application of the plaintiff Robert Kwiatkowski represented by the legal adviser Adrian Dworzyński of 8 May 2019 supplemented on 18 June 2019. [[Applause]] We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the system of education and certain other laws (prints 2218 and 2242). I ask Mr Sławomir Skwark to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u416	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws, print No 2218. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 28 April this year. a resolution of the Senate on the above matter to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for consideration. The Commission, after considering this resolution at its meeting on 11 May, submits that the High Sejm should accept amendments 6 and 11 from among the 11 amendments and that the remaining amendments should be rejected. Amendment 1 should be voted on, including amendments 3 and 10. Amendments 5, 7, 8 and 9 should be voted on. The amendments recommended for adoption, 6th and 11th, should also be voted together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u417	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. We are voting on the 1st amendment with which amendments 3 and 10 are combined. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 1, 3 and 10? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 231 - for, 223 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments by an absolute majority. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission requests that it be rejected. We're voting. Who's against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 223 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment. We are voting on Amendment 4, with amendments 5, 7, 8 and 9. We will vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 4, 5, 7, 8 and 9? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 244 - for, 212 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendments. We are voting on the 6th Amendment, with which Amendment 11. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 6 and 11? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. No one was in favor of - 453, 1 holding back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the Education System and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and on certain other laws (prints No 2217 and 2241). I ask Mr Kazimierz Moskal to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u418	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and on certain other laws, print No 2217. On 28 April, the Senate adopted the amendment to the above law. The Committee on Education, Science and Youth considered this resolution at its meeting on 11 May 2022 and asks the High Sejm to accept the Senate amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u419	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the only amendment, to the article. 238 of the Act - Provisions introducing the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science, the Senate proposes to amend paragraph 1. 10 and the new wording of paragraph 10. 10a. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of rejecting the amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 448 Members voted. Two for, against - 446, no one held back. The Senate amendment accepted. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team (Prints No 2215 and 2244). I ask Mrs Anna April to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u420	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present to the High House the report of the Health Committee on Printing No. 2244 on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team, print No. 2215. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) On 28 April 2022, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Health for consideration. The Health Committee of yesterday's resolution examines and asks that the High Sejm accept all the amendments, except that amendments 1 and 4 and 5, from 7 to 9, 13 and 14 should be voted together Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u421	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on Amendment 1, with amendments 4, 5, 7 to 9, 13 and 14. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that they be adopted. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 1, 4, 5, 7 to 9, 13 and 14? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. No one was in favour, no one voted against 457 Members, no one abstained. The Senate's amendments accepted. We are voting on the second amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the second amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. Nobody was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against, no one was against. The Senate amendment accepted. We are voting on the third amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the third amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 1 for, against -454, no one stopped. The Senate's amendments accepted. We are voting on the 6th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the sixth amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate amendment. We are voting on the 10th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the 10th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. Four for, against, 450, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We are voting on the 11th Amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's in favour of rejecting the 11th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 1 for, against -443, 9 abstained. The Senate amendment accepted. We are voting on the 12th amendment. The Commission proposes that it be adopted. We're voting. Who's against the 12th amendment? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. No one was in favour, no one voted 452 Members, no one abstained. The Senate amendment accepted. [[Applause]] At this we have concluded the Senate resolution on the Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team Act. We proceed with the examination of item 21 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Pension Supply of Professional Soldiers and their Families, the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Marshal's Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Service, Customs and Carboy Service and their families and some other laws (prints no. 2219 and 2225). I ask Mrs Agatha Katarzyna Wojtyszek to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u422	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Pension Supply of Professional Soldiers and their Families, the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Marshal' Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and their families and some other laws, print No 2219. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. 54 (1) (a) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 28 April 2022 the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence for consideration. The Committee on Administration and Home Affairs and the Committee on National Defence, after having considered this resolution at its meeting on 10 May 2022, brings forward: The High Sejm shall reject the amendments set out in points 1, 2, 4, 6, 9, 10 and 11, the remaining amendments, including amendments 1 and 4, amendments 2, 6, 9, 10 and 11 and amendments 3, 5, 7 and 8. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u423	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on Amendment 1, with which Amendment 4 is linked. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1 and 4? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on the 2nd Amendment, with amendments 6 and 9 to 11. We vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 2, 6 and 9 to 11? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 232 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments. We are voting on the third amendment with amendments 5, 7 and 8. We vote on them together. The committees are filing for their admission. We're voting. Who is against Amendments 3, 5, 7 and 8? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. No one was against 452, no one held back. The Senate's amendments accepted. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate's resolution on amending the Act on pension provision of professional soldiers and their families, the Act on pension provision of police officers, the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Counterintelligence Service, the Military Intelligence Service, the Central Anti-corruption Office, the Border Guard, the Marshal's Guard, the State Security Service, the State Fire Department, the Customs and Treasury Service and their families and some other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 22 of the agenda: Report of the Extraordinary Commission on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure (Prints No 2216 and 2224). I ask Mr Grzegorz Lorek to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u424	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Extraordinary Commission on Changes in Codifications, I would like to present a report to the committee on the adoption of the Senate on the Law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure, Print No 2216 and 2224. The Commission, after considering the amendments at its meeting on 11 May 2022, asks that the amendments set out in points 1 and 2 be rejected. N.B.: Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u425	We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. We are voting on the 1st amendment with which Amendment 2 is combined. We vote on them together. The Commission requests that they be rejected. We're voting. Who is in favour of rejecting Amendments 1 and 2? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 233 - for, 223 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendments. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law - Code of Civil Procedure. I would like to remind you that authorised entities have submitted requests to supplement the agenda: - Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 o point: Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the impact of the Polish Government on institutions operating in the social services sector, created or supervised by local government units and financed by them, non-governmental organisations operating in the social services sector, which do not receive local government support or receive them only through grants obtained after an open competition and public benefit organisations, entitled to receive 1% personal income tax; - Coalition Left Messenger Club by points: - First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the activities of the Council of Ministers to counter high inflation and protect against its consequences, - Information from the Minister of Health on the state of preparation for the wave of SARS-CoV-2 infection due to the spread of the Omicron variant; - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens about the point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on special solutions for protecting final customers in the natural gas market. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We proceed to the vote on the proposal concerning information of the President of the Council of Ministers about the Polish Order. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed to the vote on the proposal to supplement the agenda with a point: First reading of the parliamentary draft law amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19, other infectious diseases and the crisis situations caused by them. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 211 - for, 244 - against, no one held back. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on a proposal for information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the activities of the Council of Ministers in order to combat high inflation and protect against its consequences. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 223 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal for information from the Minister of Health on the state of preparation for the wave of SARS-CoV-2 infection due to the spread of the Omicron variant. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 210 for, 243 against, 2 abstentions. The Sejm's motion is denied. We are voting on the proposal to complete the agenda by item: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on specific arrangements for protecting final customers in the natural gas market. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal? Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 223 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's motion is denied. We proceed with the examination of item 29 of the agenda: Election of judges - members of the National Judicial Council (prints Nos 2161 and 2189). Sejm, based on art. Article 9a (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1306/2013 shall apply. 1 of the Act on the National Judicial Council, elects 15 judges - members of the Council. The Committee on Justice and Human Rights has established a list of 15 candidates for board members. I will put this list to the vote. I ask that Mr Kazimierz Smolinski speak in order to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u426	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Report from the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on the establishment of a list of candidates for the members of the National Judicial Council. [[The voice from the room: It's a scandal!]] The Marshal of the Sejm sent on 6 April a list of candidates for members of the National Judicial Council... [[You're breaking the constitution again.]] ...as indicated by the Members' Club and the Sejm Bureau, as contained in print No 2161, to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to establish a list of candidates. The Commission at its meeting on 26 April 2022 established the following list of candidates: Irena Bochniak, Katarzyna Ewelina Chmura, Anna Elżbieta Dalkowska, Dariusz Drajewicz, Grzegorz Furmankiewicz, Marek Jaskulski, Joanna Kołodziej-Michałowicz, Ewa Łąpińska, Zbigniew Łupina, Krystyna Morawa-Fryzlewicz, Maciej Nawacki, Dagmara Pawełczyk-Woicka, Rafał Puchalski, Paweł Kazimierz Styrna and Stanisław Zdun. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u427	Thank you. [[You're trampling on the constitution.]] Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the list of candidates? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] Of course. I therefore propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of... [[Do not be surprised, Marshal.]] I am absolutely not surprised, sir. I'm asking according to the formula I have here. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] Objection. Good. We're voting against it. [[Objection about what?]] We are voting on the proposal to hear two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to listen to the 2 minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles on this item will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 232 - for, 221 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm has accepted the motion. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u428	Mrs. Marshal! This election is now outrageous. It's just a disgraceful outburst and a constitutional violation. [[Applause]] Today we are really voting not on the new composition of the National Judicial Council, but on the further destruction by you of the rule of law, the further deepening of the conflict with the European Union, the increasing sums of compensation that will be paid by Poles and Poles for your unlawful actions. This is not a choice of the National Judicial Council. This body does not exist because this legal existence was challenged by European tribunals and Polish courts. [[Applause]] This is the fiction of Ziobra, this is the fiction of Kaczyński, the pyramid of lawlessness. But she's gonna collapse. Anyone who raises his hand today, voting in favour, raises his hand in an act of lawlessness for establishing justice as a heiter group, as a team of people hating judges, as political officers of Ziobra and Kaczyński, to put it directly - will raise his hand behind the hat, behind lies, for stalking people, for the worst practices of the Polish People's Republic. [[Why so much hate?]] What if these new old neo-KRS candidates get charged with a hater scandal? People with charges are gonna decide on nominations and judges' promotions? Think about it. And this is what happens when people die outside our eastern border, bombs explode. [[Applause]] Meanwhile, under the cover of the war, you still want to spread lawlessness in Poland, undermine the rule of law, the foundation on which the Polish presence in the European Union was built. It's just disgusting. Trying to vote for the candidates of the faithful soldiers of the Minister of Justice who deserved to spit on independent judges may be standard in Russia, but not in Poland. Come to your senses. What are you doing? [[Applause]] There isn't, and we won't allow it. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u429	Catherine Ueberhan, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u430	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Can lawlessness create law? The answer is clear and there can only be one: no. But here again we are witnessing that in the PiS state everything is possible: and lawlessness, and injustice, because the PiS state instead of upholding the rule of law protects its political interests. [[Applause]] [[How did you get here?]] The Neo-KRS is not an independent court, it is not an independent body, as the European Courts have ruled. There are unconstitutionally appointed political officers in it. And the state on the right side of the chamber today again illegally, unjustly, in breach of the constitution, you wish to appoint the neos judges for the next term of office. Let me remind you that according to the article. 187 (3) of the Constitution, the National Judicial Council consists of 4 members elected by the Sejm. It's four members, not 15. [[Applause]] And another curiosity. I would like to remind you that 12 of the 15 members are associated with the Minister of Injustice in the Council ending the term of office. This is your independence and independence. As many as 14 of the previous candidates are running again. Yeah, the MPs could have called in their candidates. Yes, the Left could have reported it, but she didn't. We will not participate in this farce, including the theater (Applause), which follows the instructions from Nowogrodzka, where the Minister of Injustice pulls the strings. We say: a fairly political procedure. We say: quite a cop country stuck to the piss of a political order calling political officers. No more lawless. Enough. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Enough. Enough.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u431	Mr Sebastian Kalet. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u432	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! We have a very important choice, a celebration of democracy, because our constitution says that every power in our country comes from a nation. [[Applause]] And what authority would this nation exercise over the third power if the judges were to choose themselves? [[Festival of haters.]] Thanks to the changes (The Bell), the reform of the judiciary Poles finally regained influence on who can become a judge in Poland. The deliberations of the KRS shall be transmitted. Anyone can follow them. It is not that who will become a judge in Poland is determined at closed meetings of the judges themselves. [[But you were dragged by the president. Your knees hurt?]] And now the question to the angry, screaming opposition. Why do you hate Poland so much? Why do you hate the Constitution so much? [[Applause]] [[How did you cry last night in Novgorodska?]] After all, in a country you love so much, in a country whose language your leader likes to speak, in German, how do you choose judges? The parliamentarians, the High Sejm, are gathering, and it is the parliamentarians themselves who personally choose who is the judge of the Supreme Court. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] But what are you saying? You say Poles mustn't, mustn't... [[Voice from the room: Don't cry like Ziobro.]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u433	Mr Rutnicki, I warn you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u434	And what do the Germans say to the Poles? They tell the Germans that we are a young democracy and that we are to follow orders. [[Voice from the O.R.: It's immature.]] We're not a young democracy. We are mature democracy with centuries-old traditions. [[You're not gonna be on the list anyway.]] That is why it is worth it for the Sejm to make this choice today. I'll tell you more. Spain is just like Poland. As in Poland, the parliament appoints members of the KRS and no one in the European Union is disturbed by this. What about And you so, so much dislike democracy, you lose elections, you can't accept the fact that the National Judicial Council can have a democratic element in accordance with the Polish constitution, which is in line with the principles of democracy. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[You're not gonna be on the list anyway.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u435	Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u436	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister Kaleta! I don't think there's a more panicked person in this room than you, as we just witnessed. [[Applause]] So, ladies, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo, I wonder what this vote is about, with this sudden drop and the election of judges to the National Court Register. Isn't that a political advance before the work for Solidarna Polska? [[Applause]] But, Mr. President Kaczyński, don't count yourself. Because sometimes Solidarna Polska will not perform the robots, and what will be next with President Glapiński? Of course, as the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition Poland we will not put our hand today or at any other time to dig around the constitutional organ, which is a denial, is a distortion of the formula that we have been creating in the Polish system for years. Get to work, ladies and gentlemen of the PiS, finally remove the Disciplinar Chamber, let's repair the National Judicial Council, so that we can establish normal relations with the European Union, start to benefit from the benefits that the European Union guarantees. It's gonna get worse without it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u437	Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u438	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The KRS is just one of the issues that are affecting the judiciary today. The second is the reform of the Disciplinary Chamber, which is the reform of the system in which judges are judged. Of course, the centrolevica would like to restore the rules by which it is a closed caste, the judges judge themselves. You would like to make these judges judge other judges, but to make them your judges. These are two differences, practically cosmetic differences between how you perceive this system. It's about ours judging yours, not the other way around. This is the whole difference, the whole debate that is taking place today between the government and the centre-left opposition. Therefore, the Confederation says: enough, enough judges, enough of a situation in which judges judge themselves. We have proposed an amendment and we are counting on you to accept it. We hope that, contrary to what happened at the Justice Committee, you will accept an amendment which introduces a very clear, clear system for assessing the work of judges through a jury, that is, through a social factor. Let's cut it out so yours, ours, or any other jury can judge each other. [[And instead of going to the dentist, go to the blacksmith.]] This is the main pathology of social life in Poland today. We encourage, invite, ask and demand that we end this by introducing a jury. The problems we're discussing today are really going to disappear.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u439	Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u440	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! If this were a choice for the national council of football courts, I would even recommend one of the candidates, because Judge Zbigniew Łupin was a football player of many clubs, among others. The fifth-legged Tura Turobin. Not because of his soccer skills, but because he played soccer for a long time, he probably likes to be called even Polish Stanley Matthews. But, High Seym, that's not the choice. Today we elect members of the National Judicial Council. [[Voice from the hall: So-called.]] The composition presented is dramatically not representative and makes nominations and promotions even to the Supreme Court will continue to be decided by judges with little experience or not competent enough to promote themselves. There were many strong words here. Strong arguments were put forward not to make the choice of these candidates. Minister, screaming is often a sign of weakness, and today you have shown this weakness. There's talk going on. See what the choice of members of the National Judicial Council looks like. How about this hustle to replace the silence? Silence is one of the most beautiful sounds. Silence fits well with the bill of conscience. Let's make a conscience check so we don't sin by this vote, High Sejm. [[Applause]] [[Tom, I absolve you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u441	Member Robert Kwiatkowski, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u442	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We'll be here in a minute to vote on the election of the members of the National Judicial Council, but after all, what a horse is, everyone sees. There won't be any surprises here. It also seems that there will be no surprise as to the outcome of this vote. The vast majority of the members of the National Judicial Council have already been recognised during their passing term of office. She got the worst of it. I don't expect any good from them. The PPS Parliamentary Circle will, of course, vote against these nominations. I would like to address the members of the governing coalition, the Members of the United Right, with the request and call for you ladies and gentlemen to consider what the so-called battles have given you these years. reform of the justice system. After all, the National Judicial Council is the core of the changes you are calling for. What good did that do you guys? What has this done to the Polish justice system? Let's recap: the trial time and the handling of cases as long as it took, so long. It's getting bigger. You have introduced an atmosphere of conflict and war within the judge's environment, you have led to the fact that the investment climate in Poland - the certainty of the law is its foundation - has deteriorated significantly. Maybe not the last but the most important thing: you have led to a war with the institutions of the European Union, starting with the Court of Justice of the Union and ending with the European Commission. This is the shortest balance of the reform, the essence of which is (the bell) the choice to the KRS. Was it worth it? Thank you. [[The chairmanship of the proceedings includes the Marshal of the Sejm Elizabeth Witek]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u443	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. According to Art. 11d paragraph. The 5th Act on the National Judicial Council of the Sejm elects judges of the members of the National Judicial Council by a majority of 3/5 votes in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members, voting on the list of candidates established by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. In the event of failure to select the members of the Board in the procedure referred to above, the Sejm shall, in accordance with Article. 11d paragraph. 6 of the Act on the National Judicial Council, elects the members of the Council by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members, voting again on the same list of candidates as established by the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of selecting the judges of the members of the National Judicial Council presented by the committee on the list in print No. 2189, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? [[The voice from the room: 'Cause we're gonna lose. Resume.]] [[Voice from the hall: Heiters.]] When you don't work, I'm supposed to react, but when it doesn't work here, I'm not supposed to react. Yes? That's very fair. That's justice. Great. [[Voice from the room: There's another one in the toilet.]] 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. In the absence of a majority of 3/5 votes, the Sejm did not elect the judges of the members of the National Judicial Council. [[Applause]] In the absence of a choice by a majority of 3/5 votes, we shall proceed to the vote in accordance with the second mode. I would remind you that, in this vote, the election of the judges of the members of the National Judicial Council is made by an absolute majority. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of selecting the judges of the members of the National Judicial Council presented by the committee on the list in print No. 2189, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, no one abstained. By an absolute majority, the Sejm elected the judges of the members of the National Judicial Council. [[Applause]] We proceed to the examination of item 23 of the agenda: Appointment of the President of the National Bank of Poland (prints no. 2033 and 2169). High Izbo! According to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 Constitution of the Republic of Poland and Art. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act on the National Bank of Poland The Sejm appoints the President of the National Bank of Poland at the request of the President of the Republic of Poland. President of the Republic of Poland, acting on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. 3 of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, submitted a request for the appointment of Mr Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. This application was served in print No 2033. The opinion of the Public Finance Commission on the application was delivered in print No 2169. Please take the floor of the Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Piotr Ćwik, in order to present a proposal from the President of the Republic of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u444	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, High Izbo! [[Voice from the room: Aren't you ashamed to introduce such a candidate?]] On behalf of the President of the Republic of Poland, Mr Andrzej Duda, I have the honour to present a proposal for the appointment of Professor Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. [[Voice from the room: Shame!]] Acting on the basis of Article. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the hall: At the expense of Poles.]] ...the President made a request to the Sejm on 11 January 2022. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to begin with a brief reminder of Professor Adam Glapiński's biography. [[Voice from the room: No.]] [[Voice from the room: Don't be.]] The current President of the National Bank of Poland graduated from the Economic and Social Faculty of the General School of Planning and Statistics in Warsaw, a later Warsaw School of Economics. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u445	You will either leave or you will listen. We were just talking about the value of silence. Mr President, listen to what you have to say. Okay? [[Applause]] [[Marshal, I'm asking important questions.]] You can leave now. [[You couldn't handle it.]] Deputy Head of the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Piotr Ćwik: Since 1972 he has been permanently associated with this university as a lecturer, academic and promoter of many master's and doctoral works. He's an experienced lecturer. He taught at national and foreign universities, including for many years in the United States and France. [[Tell me he was the Minister of Construction.]] In addition to his scientific and teaching activities, President Adam Glapiński was involved in social and political matters. During the martial law he served as co-chair of the Underground Solidarity Council and was a member of the Warsaw Civil Committee on Solidarity, as well as the electoral staff of the Solidarity Council in 1989. After the fall of the Polish People's Republic since the early 1990s, he has performed many important functions in public administration: a Member, a Senator, a Minister in two offices, as well as a member of the parliamentary committee of the common European Union and Poland. In addition, the candidate has extensive economic and managerial experience. The professor was the President of the Management Board, the CEO of Polkomtel SA, acting as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Bank Rozwoju Eksportu SA, Centralwings, KGHM Polska Miedź SA. He supported his economic knowledge and experience as an advisor to President Lech Kaczyński. In 2010-2016 he was a member of the Monetary Policy Council, and on 29 February 2016, President Andrzej Duda appointed Professor Adam Glapiński to the Management Board of the National Bank of Poland at the request of the President of the National Bank of Poland Marek Belka and in June 2016 the Professor became President of the National Bank of Poland. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! During the term of office of the President of Glapiński, the Polish economy developed three and a half times faster than the euro area (Applause) and the fastest of all major economies of the European Union. [[Yes, sir, all success.]] As a result, the distance towards the Western economies has significantly decreased, and in terms of wealth we are already ahead not only of Greece but also of Portugal. [[How's it going?]] An important factor of this economic growth was the responsible and determined monetary policy of the National Bank of Poland, thanks to which Poland gently went through the global crisis caused by the COVID-19 pandemic. It is worth noting that by the end of 2021 GDP in Poland was as high as 4.9% higher than before the pandemic, while many economies it hasn't even returned to pre-pandemic GDP levels yet. [[It's all success.]] [[Do you believe that?]] The rapid economic growth in 2016-2021 and the small scale of the losses caused by the pandemic allowed for a clear improvement in the financial situation of Polish families. [[Yeah, loan instalments. Everything's better.]] The unemployment during the term of office of President Glapiński has fallen by half and is now the lowest in the European Union next to the Czech Republic. [[Applause]] At the same time, the dynamics of wages and profits of Polish companies, which constantly increase their share of international trade, remain stable. It is worth noting that this economic growth was not done on credit, it was not occupied by the rise of imbalances in the economy, and the main goal of the National Bank of Poland, which is to maintain medium-term price stability, was preserved. [[Voice from the room: Ooh...]] The average inflation during the term of office of President Glapiński was 2.9% , i.e. it was in line with the NBP's medium-term inflation target of 2,5%. [[How about now?]] Of course, today the challenge is high inflation, which results from strong external shocks, but the National Bank of Poland responds adequately and strongly strengthens monetary policy. It is worth noting that the actions of President Glapiński are positively assessed by international financial institutions such as... [[Voice from the room: By whom?]] ... International Monetary Fund, World Bank or OECD. [[That's not true! That's a lie.]] In turn, the high credibility of monetary authorities translates into good assessments of the Polish economy among foreign investors and credit rating agencies, which influences the stabilisation of the gold exchange rate and reduces the cost of handling public debt. [[Voice from the hall: Yes, you can see the interest on the bonds.]] During the term of office of President Adam Glapiński, the national banking and payment system is functioning steadily despite the pandemic crisis and a strong shock to the economy, which is the Russian aggression on Ukraine. This stability of the banking system ensures the smooth functioning of the economy as well as the financing of economic development. It is worth noting at this point that at the initiative of Prof. Glapiński's National Cash Trading Security Strategy was established and the National Bank of Poland's mission was to promote the sustainable development of the cash market while maintaining a high level of security for this turnover. The actions of the National Bank of Poland in this area allowed to ensure a smooth cash turnover in Poland even under extreme conditions of pandemics and attack on Ukraine. Despite the sudden, strong increase in the demand for cash at that time, the National Bank of Poland provided increased amounts of cash, which allowed to control the situation and avoid bank panic. During the term of office of President Glapiński, the level of foreign exchange reserves significantly increased, which reached USD 166 billion at the end of 2021, increasing six times compared to the level in 2000 and almost twice in the last decade, while reserves increased by USD 55,8 billion from June 2016 to December 2021. At the same time, the National Bank of Poland significantly increased its gold stock, which contributes on the one hand to the reduction of financial risk, and on the other it increases the profitability of reserves, strengthening the financial strength of the National Bank of Poland and thus the Polish state. In the years 2018-2019 the National Bank of Poland purchased 125 t of gold, increasing the stock of crushed material to around 230 t, which corresponds to about 9% official reserve assets. Importantly, the increase in gold resources was realized by the National Bank of Poland before the price of gold increased by almost 50%. That's what I'm talking about. thanks to good management of foreign reserves in the years 2016-2021 the National Bank of Poland has developed very good financial conditions. The profit of the National Bank of Poland for 2021 was the highest in history and amounted to nearly PLN 11 billion. As a result, contributions to the budget for the term of office of President Glapiński were much higher than in previous years, which allowed for the financing of important public expenditure and reduced the level of public debt. The last financial strength brought together by the National Bank of Poland during the 6 years of Prof. Glapiński's term of office allowed us to actively support Ukraine in this extremely difficult time for our eastern neighbours. One tangible manifestation of this support was the granting of the so-called central bank of Ukraine. A currency swap of $1 billion. The National Bank of Poland was the first and only central bank to offer such support to the National Bank of Ukraine. During the term of office of President Adam Glapiński, the National Bank of Poland strengthened its position as the leading central bank in the region, which is one of the foundations of the economic strength of the Polish state. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Given all the above facts and circumstances, on behalf of the President, I ask that you support the appointment of Professor as President of the National Bank of Poland. [[Applause]] Thank you, Minister. Please take the floor of Mr Andrzej Costowniak in order to present the opinion of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u446	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! I am pleased to submit the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance concerning the proposal submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland for appointment to the position of President of the National Bank of Poland, print No 2033. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 30 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 5 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Bureau of the Sejm, addressed this request to the Committee on Public Finance on 23 February 2022 for an opinion. Following the opinion of the Committee on Public Finance at its meeting on 13 April 2022 and following the discussion, the Committee on Public Finance decided to apply for Mr Prof. Adma Glapiński's opinion is positive. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u447	Thank you. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to take the floor on your candidacy? [[Game in the O.R.]] [[Not at all.]] Of course. I therefore propose that the Sejm listen to two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles in the discussion. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. [[Voice from the room: Objection.]] I hear you. We are voting on the proposal to hear two minutes' statements on behalf of clubs and circles. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to listen to the 2 minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the circles in the discussion on this item will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 233 - for, 222 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm accepted the offer. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Dariusz Rosati, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak. Please. [[Why Schreiber at the end, Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u448	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Adam Glapiński's candidacy as President of the NBP for the second term of office is negative. [[Applause]] The first and most important reason is that he does not fulfil his constitutional and statutory duties. Being the person responsible for the value of Polish money for 6 years, maintaining price stability, led to the fact that over the last 2 years the gold has decreased by 10% against the euro, 15% against the US dollar, and inflation has increased to over 12%. This inflation is an inevitable result of wrong decisions, but also of the arrogance and self-esteem of the President of the NBP (Applause), who, disregarding the warnings of economists, pursued monetary policy subject not to the constitution, to laws, but to the interests of the governing party. He lowered interest rates to a level that was untenable, which resulted in people withdrawing their fixed-term deposits and spending money on the market. Then he waited too long to raise interest rates, which resulted in the fact that he now has to raise his feet in a drastic way, which affects the condition of households and the budgets of Polish families. [[Applause]] Thirdly, he was manipulating the golden course only to increase the financial result, which was also praised by a representative of the President of the Republic of Poland. But it is not the task of NBP to carry out financial results, but to care about the stability of Polish money. [[Applause]] Fourthly, it tolerated increasing liquidity in the banking sector, which led banks to no longer pay funds at all in terms of interest on deposits. Ladies and gentlemen! If you want to vote today and raise your hand in favour of Adam Glapiński, I warn you that you will go to your constituency, you will have to look in the face (the bell) of your voters and you will have to explain why you voted in favour of inflation and expensive. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u449	Thank you, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u450	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I very much regret that Mr Glapiński is not with us today, because it would be worth spending at least as much time with the High House as he devoted to President Kaczyński on the street yesterday. Nowogrodzka. [[Applause]] Nevertheless, it is worth saying a few words. According to our current predictions after the first quarter it will decrease and will no longer be so distressing, although it will be approx. 5% - Adam Glapiński hawk, December 2021 [[Applause]] The projections indicate that inflation will reach its maximum level of over 8% in the middle of this year. Previously, in the first quarter of this year, inflation will temporarily decrease - Adam Glapiński's hawk, January 2022. It will not be painful for consumers. We act independently of the government, but at the same time we complement ourselves - the hawk Adam Glapiński, February 2022. We continue consistently started in October Ub. actions aimed at reducing the risk of continued increased inflation - Adam Glapiński hawk, March 2022 If Adam Glapiński had honor, then after these four speeches he should get up and say, "I'm sorry, thank you, I'm not running." [[Applause]] If Andrzej Duda and Jarosław Kaczyński had honor, they would say: we are withdrawing this candidate, we do not support this candidate. Do you have honor? You guys want to do politics? You got people who don't give a shit, people who pay high bills of credit, people who go to the store and shop every day. [[Applause]] [[And what were the interest rates in the banks in the time of the Left?]] This is Adam Glapiński's card: 6 months, a loan payment of 2,000. zł. Adam Glapiński is a cheater, he is the biggest pest of Polish złotka (Dzwonek) after 1989. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u451	Thank you very much, sir. Just don't yell like that, 'cause there was talk of silence. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland. Please. [[Member Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: What are these pinches?]] Madame, I am in charge of the deliberations. Don't lecture me on what I can and can't say. [[Don't lecture us either.]] No. Do you think I'm just sitting around pushing buttons? [[We have the same ticket.]] You've made a mistake, my fellow Members. Please, sir. [[Is that okay?]] There you go. [[Don't lecture us.]] [[You're such a marshal as Glapiński's CEO.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u452	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! To begin with, the question to the majority of the parliament: How long do you think a private analyst would have warmed up a seat in a private company that would have predicted an inflation of 2.5% in a few months' time? and this inflation would be 12.5% ? I don't think there's a minute. [[Voice from the room: Bonus.]] [[Voice from the room: Happened.]] Ladies and gentlemen! Millions of Poles and Poles took matters into their own hands, taking a mortgage. They did not wait for an apartment program, which they have been looking forward to for seven years, but took care of the apartment, the house for themselves, for their children, often for their grandchildren. They did not expect charity from you - they only expected a stable, predictable approach to the credit situation. Unfortunately, they haven't seen this in the last few months. Unfortunately, President Adam Glapiński is the key figure responsible for this state of affairs, which for many people for years has destroyed confidence in the state. I recommend to each Member and every Member of the PiS: talk to young people who have credit today who have taken credit after the words of Adam Glapiński, who encouraged them, saying that there will be no disturbance in the credit market. Talk to them. If today, in my place, there were people who were encouraged by Glapiński to take credit, they would explain to you best, best recommended the person of the President of Glapiński. [[Give me those words, that quote.]] After many discussions with Poles, the Parliamentary Club of Poland will vote today in the interest of Poles against Mr Adam Glapiński's candidacy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u453	Thank you very much, sir. There you go, Mr Dobromir Sosnierz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u454	When I listened to Mr. Świk's speech, I remembered the scene from the film Naked weapon, when Leslie Nielsen was standing in front of an exploding factory, everything blows up, and he says, "There's nothing to look at, just walk away." Against the background of exploding inflation, Mr. Ćwik stands and says: "Everything is fine, the country is developing, what do you mean? Mother of God, I really can't believe that you are seriously offering us a guy who laughs all over Poland, who is simply a symbol of incompetence. [[We know who's laughing.]] After all, even when he goes out and talks about what he's going to do there and presents all his inept ideas, he says it in a compromising way. He says, "Oh, there, God only knows how the Lord will allow it, and he will let it out of the stick." It's such wisdom. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Look for it. Maybe by drawing lots you'll find someone better in your ranks. I don't believe it. The only competence he has is that he's been reckless about your entire financial policy of unlimited money expansion, giving the government unlimited free printed money. After all, you have more people who are boundlessly loyal to the president, you don't have to expose this man who's already completely compromised himself. After voting in favour of what the President sometimes tells you to vote for, I think you're all already positively tested in terms of fidelity. You really don't have to repeat that mistake. If we put the monkey behind the NBP president's table, that's 50%. the chance that it will make good decisions, and here is 0% The odds. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] This is the inflation graph of your governments. Here's the beginning - this blue line - and here's the end. That's what it looks like, Mr. twig, that's what it looks like. [[It's not over yet.]] Yeah, it's not over yet. We're just getting started. So, for God's sake, no, no, and no. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u455	Thank you. I invite Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u456	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Law and Justice! As a result, you have brought the state to trade, to trade between the politicised National Council of the Court and the politicized National Bank of Poland, because it is today that we are watching closely in this Chamber, and the debate for up to 2 minutes, your marshal, about important monetary policy. Let us return to the President of the National Bank of Poland. People don't need to know economics because that's what the government and the right specialists are for. We heard that just now from the president of the central bank. The trouble is that in Poland the central bank is not managed by a professional, only a hawk, slightly dazed. A few months ago, he thought that raising interest rates would be a school mistake, and then he elevated it to over 5%. Hawk, of course, does not feel the effects of his own decision, because his salary is also a hawk. Last year it exceeded PLN 1 million, which the president humbly commented: It is a huge sum, for me stunning. For the first time in my life, it's happened to me. The effects of the president's activities are felt by Poles. Some see the decline in the value of their money, others wipe sweat on their foreheads, pay their loan instalments, others have shivering hands when they pay their bills. Many of them certainly have the exact same words on their lips: It's a huge sum, for me it's stunning, for the first time in my life it's happened to me. It's just that President Glapiński talks about his salary, and people talk about the cost of their lives today. In the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 we know very well that the support of the President of Glapiński (the bell) for the next term would simply be a school mistake. And we won't make that mistake. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u457	Thank you very much, Member. I invite Mr Michael to drink from the Agreement. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u458	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Adam Glapiński's policy harms Polish families. Therefore, Members of the Agreement will not support Adam Glapiński's candidacy as President of the National Bank of Poland. In the shadow of the fair, counting the majority to fill this position, there is a drama of millions of Polish families, often young families, who are thrilled to receive further updates of the rates of loans, which in a short time grew so high that they threaten the economic security of millions of Polish families. The cost around us is the result of an error of omission and disregard for the rise in inflation by the current NBP President. Today, the cost of fighting the cost has been completely thrown onto the shoulders of Polish families. But equally important, NBP's independence guarantees the effectiveness of the central bank's constitutional tasks. Yesterday, however, all Poland saw a view of the NBP President at a meeting at the party headquarters of Law and Justice. A political deal, perhaps. But the political deal in your mouth was enough to make requests for the cancellation of ministers in June 2014 and then an extended request for a constructive vote of mistrust. Quotes: Minister Sienkiewicz discredited himself and the office he runs. The justification for our proposal is short, Sienkiewicz concluded a political deal with the President of the NBP. As he added, Sienkiewicz's conversation with Belka about changing the Minister of Finance and amending the Act on NBP aimed at making an independent institution such as NBP dependent on the government. Who said that? Minister Błaszczak. More. On the same day, 16 June 2014, there were extraordinary and, quote: appalling events which indicate that the law is being broken in Poland. The Government's representative demands abuse by the NBP and the NBP's head demands a change in the composition of the Council of Ministers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u459	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u460	We are dealing with the distribution of the state apparatus. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Who said that? President Jarosław Kaczyński. Members of the Agreement will not support Adam Glapiński. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u461	Thank you. I invite Mr Paweł Szramka, Polish Affairs. Come on in. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u462	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We've heard a lot about you, President Glapiński. I'm not gonna say it again. We've all had the opportunity to see and hear what he's talking about at conferences. I wanted to ask all of us who we were going to vote for. Are you really on behalf of the Poles? First of all, I wanted to ask the ruling majority. Because you often say that you listen to the voice of Poles, I will help you before this vote. Over 70% The Poles asked whether Adam Glapiński should be appointed by the Sejm for the second term of office of the NBP President, answered: no. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And how many Poles do they know who is Glapiński?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u463	Thank you. I invite Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u464	Mrs. Marshal! The Poles will not forget PiS that he is pushing for a man's candidacy, who encouraged him to take mortgage loans and guaranteed that the instalments would not increase. Poles have been impudently deceived and are to continue to be deceived. At the latest, young Poles in the Union move out of their family homes because the apartment is impossible for most people. The government has recited this case, and the NBP and the Monetary Policy Council are in harm's way. The NBP President should be like Caesar's wife, apart from any suspicion, and he is like a slave at a market that takes place between PiS and Solidarna Poland. What have you finally paid for Minister Ziobra's vote that today he will vote in favour if it is in the meeting? Disputes inside the so-called. The United Right is costing Poles hundreds of millions of euros of penalties, lack of funding for the National Plan for Reconstruction and the collapse of the image of Poland in the world. We pay for the PiS fanaber with the public's pauperization. NBP, instead of braking, drives inflation. The NBP can't fight her. The NBP's credibility reached the brink. The wrong policy of Glapiński led to a deepening of inequalities between Poles. The daily cost of consumption gallops, which hits the least wealthy Poles most. They have to choose whether to pay the gas bill or buy the necessary prescription. The only consolation is that even the chosen Adam Glapiński won't keep the chair of the NBP president for long, because only until the Seym elections. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u465	Thank you. There you go, Minister Łukasz Schreiber, Law and Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u466	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If someone had listened to this debate without knowing our opposition... [[E.g. Meiza.]] ...would have thought that most opposition representatives today are trying to absolve Putin for high inflation throughout Europe and attack Adam Glapiński. [[Voice from the room: Stop it.]] [[Voice from the room: Uh...]] Fortunately, ladies and gentlemen... [[Applause]] [[Some Members chant: We've had enough! We've had enough! We've had enough!]] Yes. Yeah, I understand that those screams are supposed to confirm that. Ladies and gentlemen! But it seems that, above all, you simply can't do one thing: you can't even rise above the minimum when it comes to political dispute at such a difficult time. Well... Was inflation caused by the pandemic and later by the war that the Russian Federation started in Ukraine? Inflationary target, inflation in 2019 on average - 2.3%. [[3.4%.]] But of course, you haven't noticed the pandemic. Of course, you did not notice that Poland came out of it with the second lowest unemployment in the European Union. [[Voice from the room: How many deaths were there?]] You have not noticed that average inflation across the European Union is 8%. You have also not noticed that inflation has now been the highest in the Netherlands for 20 years, for 30 years - in the UK and in Germany - for 40 years - in the United States. [[But we're in Poland.]] You haven't noticed what President Biden is saying, which you've been so eager to hear before. He says that putin is responsible for 70% of inflation. You prefer to absolve Putin. [[You're lying!]] And you are talking about one more thing: the apoliticality of the presidents of the National Bank of Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Indeed, earlier your idols were extremely apolitical... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...and probably fought well with inflation like Leszek Balcerowicz. [[Voice from the room: Time!]] They managed to provide Poles with low credit rates. [[Some Members chant: We've had enough! We've had enough! We've had enough!]] For only one year of his term of office, the reference rate was lower than today. And these are your prescriptions. Your prescription is a lack of ideas... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...or maybe, as one of the ministers described... [[Voice from the room: Time!]] ...to promise twice, it's like doing once. All Poles know that. And today, with this debate, you've compromised yourselves. [[Applause]] [[You're embarrassing yourself.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u467	Someone here recently said that only the one who screams is really scared. Why the screaming on your side, I really don't understand. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Member, please sit down because you keep screaming from the bench. [[Because you're lying.]] Madam President, I will finally start applying the rules of exclusion from the meeting and financial penalties, really. [[Touchdown, applause]] The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. Let's move on to the vote. I remind you that the Sejm, according to the article. Article 31 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, appoints the President of the National Bank of Poland by an absolute majority. [[Will you vote with Mesa?]] We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the appointment of Mr Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 234-- for, 223-- against, no one held back. The absolute majority of the parliament appointed Mr Adam Glapiński as President of the National Bank of Poland. [[Some Members get up, give a tumultuous applause]] [[I remember when you were clapping to Banasi.]] We proceed with the examination of item 24 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on support and rehabilitation of minors (print No 2183) - continuation. We proceed with the matter of referral of the bill to the committee. The following conclusions were put forward in the discussion: - to refer the draft law only to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, and - additional referral of the draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. The proposal adopted by the Bureau of the Sejm is that the draft be sent to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. I will put to the vote the proposal given by the Sejm Bureau. If adopted, we will decide on the referral of the draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has only addressed the draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy. In such a case, the decision to refer the draft law to the Committee on Social Policy and the Family will become pointless. It shall be followed by a vote on the proposal delivered by the Bureau of the Sejm. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of referring the draft law contained in print 2183 to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 408 - for, 45 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the offer. We are voting to refer the bill to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs in addition. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of referring the draft law contained in print 2183 in addition to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 452 Members voted. 220 for, 232 against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the proposal and thus addressed the proposal only to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights for consideration. We proceed with the examination of item 25 of the agenda: First reading of the parliamentary draft law on amending the law on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws (print No 2121) - continuation. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm refer this draft law to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. The discussion requested that this draft be sent to the Committee on Culture and Media and to the Committee on Foreign Affairs. I will put to the vote the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Its rejection will mean that the Sejm has sent the project in accordance with the requested request. We are voting on the proposal of the Sejm Bureau. Who among the ladies and gentlemen of the House is in favour of referring the Parliamentary draft law on amending the Act on the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement and some other laws, contained in print No 2121, to the Committee on Culture and Media, will want to raise his hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 412 - for, 40 - against, abstained 1. The Sejm has accepted the motion. We proceed with the examination of item 26 of the agenda: the Labour Inspector's report on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020 (print No 1356) together with the position of the Labour Protection Council on the activities of the State Labour Inspection in 2020 and the position of the Committee on State Control and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy (print No 1550) - vote. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the 2020 report, which I will put to the vote. Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm has adopted the report. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the proposal to reject the report of the Chief Labour Inspector for 2020 contained in print 1356 would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 453 Members voted. 176 - for, 233 - against, 44 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and therefore adopted the report. We proceed with the examination of item 27 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (print No 2252). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Does anybody want to take the floor on this? No one's checking in. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print No 2252, will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 434 Members voted. 410 - for, 2 - against, withholdd 22. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. That concludes the vote. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 4 p.m. to 4 p.m. 18 min 06]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u468	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 28 of the agenda: Document presented by the Minister of Infrastructure: Information on implementation in 2021 of the multiannual programme Mon.:The Maritime Coast Protection Programme and the work schedule for 2022 (print No 2105) together with the position of the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation (print No 2135). I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Mr Marek Grybarczyk to present the information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u469	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to present a report on the implementation of the Maritime Coast Protection Programme in 2021. 2021 was the next year in which the Maritime Offices implemented the Maritime Coast Protection Programme. In 2021, the Maritime Offices carried out 17 tasks in Gdynia and Szczecin. The budget law for 2021 for the implementation of the programme is planned to amount to PLN 34 million. In 2021, tasks related to artificial beach power, construction, renovation and maintenance of permanent shore reinforcements and monitoring of sea shores of 29 455 000 were carried out. zł. The planned funds were used in 86.6%. This level of spending results from the implementation in 2021 of parts of works related to the construction of the edgeband and artificial power supply. Unused appropriations have been reported as expenditure of the State budget, which in 2021 became unexpired during the financial year. The Maritime Office in Gdynia made artificial power in the area of Ustka and Rowy, and in the Hel Peninsula in the region of Władysławów and Juraty. In 2021, works related to sealing the wall of the eastern part of the rafter were carried out in the Rows at a length of approx. 59 m. In addition, the monitoring of the sea shores carried out annual and half-yearly inspections of the technical status of the reinforcement structures at the length of 420 km of the seashore and 5433 ha of port areas. In 2021, the Gdynia Maritime Authority also carried out tasks that were continued in 2022. It is the construction of technological entrances in Gdynia-Oksywiu and Rozewiu, the construction of underwater thresholds in Gdynia-Orłów, issues - I am sorry, I will shorten - related to the dispersal of the wavering, obtaining the expansion of the beach and the supply of shores, strengthening the shoreline in the Revue through a band, reconstruction of the basic shore fortifications in Jastrzębia Góra, dehydration and a shoreband in Rozewie. The Maritime Office in Szczecin made artificial shore power supply in the villages of Wita, Ustronie Morskie and Kołobrzeg, and also made coast bands in Jarosławec, Kołobrzeg and Międzywodze. There were also reconstructions of wooden fire escape units, among others. in the town of Strange. In addition to these projects, the Maritime Authority in Szczecin in 2021 carried out monitoring of the seashore on the basis of data obtained through aerial scanning and photogrammetric aerial photographs, control of the technical status of marine shore protection structures, as well as measures to prepare investments for implementation. In total, the programme, which was adopted in 2004 and will last until 2023, amounts to 911 million. The amount of 603 081 000 has now been used, representing 66.2%. The programme we hope to continue. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u470	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Arthur Szałabawka to present the position of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u471	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation on the implementation of the Maritime Coast Protection Programme in 2021 and the work schedule for 2022. In 2021, the Maritime Offices carried out 17 tasks in Gdynia and Szczecin. The budget law for 2021 for the implementation of the programme is planned to amount to PLN 34 million. In 2021, tasks related to artificial beach power, construction, renovation and maintenance of permanent shore reinforcements and monitoring of sea shores of 29 455 000 were carried out. zł. The planned expenditure was realized in 86.6%. This allocation of expenditure results from the failure to implement parts of the works related to the construction of the edgeband and artificial power supply in 2021. Unused appropriations have been declared for State budget expenditure which does not expire in 2021 as of the end of the financial year and will be used in 2022. A total of 6.335 km of coastline was planned for 2021 as part of the programme. At the end of 2021, the seashore was protected from erosion and flooding on the sea side for a total length of almost 6 km, i.e. 5,945 km. The programme implementation rate is lower than the planned 0,39 km, which has been influenced by the change of the programme's plan of tasks and by the extension of the completion dates due largely to poor weather conditions and difficulties related to COVID-19. 34 million PLN is planned for the implementation of tasks in 2022 under the programme. In 2022 work is planned to include artificial beach power supply and reconstruction and the construction of shore reinforcements, as well as monitoring of the seashore. Since the start of the implementation of the programme, i.e. from 2003 to 31 December 2021, tasks have been carried out for a total amount of 603 081 000. zł, which translates into execution of expenditure under the programme at 66.2%. The Commission has adopted this report. In view of the above, the Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation recommends that the High House adopt information on the implementation of the Maritime Coast Protection Programme in 2021 and the work schedule for 2022. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u472	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Kacper Płażyński will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u473	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The key issue discussed in the information submitted is the issue of making investments in percentage terms, because that is what we are talking about, and we are really taking this into account as the High House. These investments were made in more than 86%, which means that they have been prepared well and made at a very high level and therefore the entire investment process has been preserved. The part that has not been implemented has not been made because of the difficult weather conditions, because, as we know, the implementation of the investment along the Baltic Sea is not always comfortable, so it is all the more important to commend the achievement of a high ratio for these investments. Ladies and gentlemen! Law and Justice has been implementing the policy of opening Poland to the sea for many years. In the last year these investments were made to a slightly smaller extent because in previous years their scope was huge. This allowed us to adapt our shore to the realization of very large investments, such as the expansion of the gasport, the preparation of investments concerning the excavation through the Vistula mine, the expansion of the DCT in Gdańsk, the expansion of the port in Świnoujście. These investments were very many, the last year was a period of their natural continuation and they will continue to be carried out in the following years. Relax this report we can accept, the recommendation of the club Law and Justice is as positive as possible. Keep up the good work, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u474	Thank you very much. I would now like to ask Mr Artur Łącki, who will present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u475	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club on the adoption of information on the implementation of the multiannual programme in 2021. The Maritime Coast Protection Programme and the work schedule foreseen for 2022 under this programme. High Izbo! Data provided by representatives of the Ministry and Maritime Offices show that the implementation of the Maritime Coast Protection Programme is without major perturbation. Further tasks set out in the programme shall be carried out. And for this, as a representative of the coastal municipalities and counties, thank you very much. In 2021, 34 million PLN from the budget for this purpose was spent without a small 87%. The same amount is shown in this year's budget. I only hope that the increase in the price of materials and services will have a negligible impact on the volume and extent of investments made by maritime authorities under this programme. The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will vote in favour of this information. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In a few sentences, I would like to refer to the functioning of maritime offices and their cooperation with local authorities. That's the subject. especially important for residents, entrepreneurs and local authorities from Pomerania and Western Pomerania. From their point of view, the maritime office is an institution that performs its objectives and tasks without looking at the social and economic conditions of local communities. The residents point out that the maritime authorities seem to forget that people live and rest in the areas they manage, and local authorities pumped millions of zlotys in to make it easier and more attractive for them. And yet technical belts are an integral part of beautiful tourist towns and setting up - as has been the case recently - a fence from the ofliss near the pedestrian street in the center of Rewala seems at least highly debatable, Minister. It is paradoxical that the recent decision of the government was terminated by the Maritime Office in Słupsk, which had a well-deserved opinion of the office most friendly and understanding the needs of local communities. Maritime authorities and maritime officials have been calling for years for simplification of the management procedures in the coastal technical belt. Recently, we have examined the Senate Act, one of the main authors of which is Senator Gawłowski, who knows the subject from the lining. This draft law responds to the expectations of local communities from the seaside lane and provides for a significant simplification of procedures and an increase in the competences of local authorities, without limiting the role of maritime authorities. The project was lost and the Council of Ministers declared possible - I stress: possible - simplification of administrative procedures, while at the same time negatively assessed the draft law. So they know and they see that it can be simplified, but if they do it to make life easier for people, they might consider it. In this way, officials will be discussing possible simplification of procedures, entrepreneurs will pass through the torture to obtain the same permit as every year, and local authorities will calculate whether it is worth starting any investment in the areas under the authority of the maritime authorities at all. Today, the construction of a simple sidewalk leading to a beach descent in the centre of the village, one where you can ride freely with a wheelchair or pass a disabled person, is a bureaucratic mitrage for at least 1.5 years. The biggest problem is the deforestation of the area, because most of the technical belt is the forest. I have a request to the officials of the Ministry of Infrastructure and decision-makers in maritime offices: Finally, start a good cooperation with local governments and communities, try to understand that all of us living and working on the Polish coast from the Maritime Krynica to Świnoujście also care about protecting the sea shores, beaches and cliffs. And protecting the environment, we must not forget that hundreds of thousands of people in this environment live, work and rest. Let them influence their surroundings, let them participate in decisions, let them share responsibility for their little homelands. How is it different from Świnoujście and Międrojów Pobierowo or Rewal? How is Frost or Rogowo different from Kolobrzeg? The fact that in large resorts the technical belt of the sea office ends with the end of the beach and it was possible to build exits to the beach for disabled people, walkways, bike paths along the sea and toilet. And not in the others, because the technical belt apart from the beach still includes the ground belt in some places with a width of up to 100 m. Ladies and gentlemen! The release of technical belt areas within the town limits - I repeat: within the town limits - will allow them all to develop. Paradoxically, it will contribute to environmental protection and bring tangible benefits to the state budget in hundreds of millions of PLN. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u476	Thank you very much. Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek will present the position of the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u477	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The belt of the Polish coast is extremely valuable for several reasons. It is an area of unique coastal nature, numerous valuable habitats of plants and habitat of animals, it is an entire ecosystem. At the same time, these are key areas for tourism with amazing recreational and leisure resources, which are attractive for this region and generate profits. The issue of protecting this area is also a question of the safety of people living in the coastal zone, the safety and functioning of parts of the coastal industry. For all these reasons protecting the sea shores is absolutely crucial, because it depends on the well-being of people at very many levels. It also depends on the condition in which we will be able to preserve these precious natural areas. We are therefore faced with the need to develop solutions that will make us reconcile all these issues: security, development, infrastructure construction, conservation of natural areas. This report has carried out tasks such as artificial beach power supply, construction, renovation and maintenance of permanent shore reinforcements and monitoring. These actions have been implemented to ensure minimum levels of safety and security of the seashore. But does this mean that the shores of the sea are sufficiently protected in Poland? No, I'm afraid not. Although there are a whole range of documents obliging Poland to actively protect the coastal environment, there is really no systematic and extensive action to do so. Very often there is a lack of goodwill, and the problem is actually aggravated by the attitude that this area should generate as much profit as possible and that is the logic that should be subordinated to all actions. New infrastructure facilities are being developed, especially for tourism, for which offshore dunes are allocated. It forgets both the dynamics of this environment and the variability of the coastline itself. Risks arising from environmental degradation by the construction of shores can result in significant financial losses. We all know very well that decisions are made about building low above sea level in the back of the shore. This is a phenomenon that we see all over the coast. This is something that should start changing our attitude, because we should protect these areas, especially when we look at how some coastal areas have been degraded in Western Europe, for example. in the UK, Belgium or the Netherlands, where after many years of a very expansive economy, the construction of this belt, for example hotels, is now being demolished precisely to return to more sustainable tourism. I think we are all aware that these areas need to be protected and that we need to reconcile different points. I hope that all these environmental issues will be taken into account. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u478	Thank you very much. I would now like to speak to Mr Jarosław Rzepa, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club in the Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Those who said they were so happy with this work 86.6% first of all, they should address the level of investment and tasks that are being carried out and ask how much money that is spent each year they reproduce, and not to mention the fact that they really change and secure the sea shores. The multiannual programme, as the Minister said, is the amount of PLN 911 million, currently used at more than 66%. Given the date of its completion, we should have a huge acceleration in the spending of these funds, or at least we would expect it to happen that it will not be thirty-some million zlotys, because as some people once said, in order to make it real, we would have to invest about 80-90 million zlotys a year. I have a question for the Minister here, first of all: Minister, do you see the possibility - but I ask you to answer honestly - to increase the expenditure and use of these funds decisively during the period when they are recorded as a multiannual plan? However, because of the limitations or the impossibility of converting this money by sea offices in Szczecin and Gdynia... Although I believe that the office in Szczecin would be calm to cope with much more investment, because it is a good office and can cope. Besides, we can see from the investments that this office is carrying out, that if it had more money, it would be able to rewrite it. I think that the main reason that I should have said this is that what has been achieved - very well, but I think that the level of resources invested in protecting our sea shores, Minister, could be much higher. I hope that you will make every effort to ensure that these measures, written or promised, are used in the multiannual programme in order to actually protect our shores. I share the opinion of my previous speaker, Łącki's colleague, that the Maritime Authority in Słupsk was a very friendly office. It's a pity, Minister, that you've centralized these tasks in two units. Perhaps we will regret this many times. And so completely beyond other subjects, Minister, just for your memory, attention, I'm reminding myself, when it comes to investing in Darłów, about the Darlow wavebreakers. They've been waiting, screaming for many, many years, and their creators have been in another world for a long time. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u480	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Circle Poland 2050 will be presented by Mr Mirosław Suchoń.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u481	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Of course, the document presented by the Ministry reads very well. It shows that these tasks are carried out. Although it points out that only 86,63% were made in 2021, which means that more than 13% the funds remained in the accounts, i.e. not everything was done or more could be done. And this is one side of the medal resulting from such a technical presentation of the report. But the other side of the coin, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, is much more interesting because it involves a comprehensive approach to nature conservation and combating climate change and the effects of these changes. When consulting the scientific community, nature conservation organisations, there are a number of problems and challenges that are not included in the report and in the report. Firstly, it is a comprehensive approach that takes account of the climate crisis, erosion of beaches and their sources. And a matter that worries us very much - none of the methods mentioned in the report is part of the method of biotechnical protection, i.e. such a reference to nature. This, Minister, is very lacking and both the work and the reports should take these methods into account, and not just such hard technical ones. Secondly, as we know, nature does not know administrative divisions. As far as these investments are concerned, the strengthening of the banks in one place increases the pressure on neighbouring sites. Therefore, comprehensive monitoring of these changes is needed. Monitoring is severable, selective, lacking comprehensive. This is a very serious problem. Thirdly, there is also a lack of information about the place where the sand was harvested. It is important that this fraction is consistent with the destination. We don't know if it's the right sand or not. This is very important information. Inappropriate sand disturbs balance, harms nature and does not preserve the natural qualities that result from the original state. That information isn't there. We consider that it should also be found, and this sand should also be the subject of care in the execution. The last thing I would like to point out is that protecting our shore also requires a different approach to a wild developer. And, of course, we were concerned by the information that the government is planning to locate a nuclear power plant in one of the most beautiful and peaceful places on the Polish sea. Minister, this is a big deal. You cannot (the Bell) destroy our beautiful heritage associated with the shore of the Baltic Sea by placing such investments there that are harmful. We have a very strong position here. We call on the Ministry, however, to make a certain resummation of thinking. It's impossible to rebuild. Either we protect our beaches and our nature as it is today, or we just lose it. It's time for real and good action. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u482	Thank you very much. Would any of your fellow Members like to add to the list of seven people at the moment? If not, I'm shutting her down. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. As the first Mr Rafał Adamczyk. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] This, of course, is as reliable as ever Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u483	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The protection of the Polish coast has been underfunded for decades and all subsequent governments, as long as my memory reaches, have carried out this task on the basis of the necessary minimum. However, all governments through ministers made sure that these minimum plans were implemented. The current government created a pier in the form of the Ministry of Infrastructure, headed by a prominent figure known for its economy and modern and effective management methods. The same person showed Poles her craftsmanship in the organization of envelope elections and professionalism in activities related to Turowo or Ostrołęka. It turns out that the demotion of the Polish coastline should be added to the minister's list of merits. According to this report, the budget defined by the Ministry of Infrastructure itself as minimal in terms of coast security was implemented in 86% (The bell) even though the Ministry had 100% guarantee for this purpose the appropriations provided for in the State budget. Why does the Ministry allow for the degradation of the sea shores? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u484	Thank you. Mr Artur Łącki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u485	Mr. Marshal! Minister! It's probative. A few years ago, we were there, it's about spurs, Pobierowo, downtown. I think I asked you that last year or two years ago. You assured me that you would monitor the situation after you put those guards in. I have to tell you, it's starting to look... I wanted to find out what you're gonna be doing because the beach on the east side of that fence is disappearing. I would like to get a written answer to the question whether you are planning something in Pobierowo on the east side. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u486	Thank you. I invite Mr Grzegorz Lork.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u487	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Sir! Gentlemen! It was during the past, namely the government of the Civic Platform - the Polish People's Party, that the most permits were issued for construction on the shoreline of our Baltic Sea regarding hotels. This must be clearly mentioned, remember, if we refer to sustainable environmental management. Our sea is difficult. The Ministry carries out work in this area, very difficult tasks. I've been sending over a number of NIK reports for the last 30 years. Many towns can be called here. I would like to say that these works that have been carried out have certainly not been carried out in a satisfactory manner and we would certainly expect more, but that our sea is not a calm sea, and the devastating effect of the marine element every year is very significant. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u488	Thank you. I now ask you to ask Arthur Szałabawka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u489	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The reconciliation of two elements: the sea, the beach and other related things is very important, and the reconciliation of economics and maritime economy with nature is even more important. As is the case with those funds that have been spent on maritime affairs, e.g. To deepen the Szczecin-Swinoujście watercourse? Because it's also widely understood by the maritime economy. I remember those times when they said it was a bit of a fanaber, and they were wondering if it was even tense. That's what the previous government, the Civic Platform and PSL government said. On the other hand, the Government of Law and Justice has done a huge job with the participation of the Maritime Office in Szczecin, but it is known that the maritime offices and the office in Szczecin, and the office in Gdańsk are very important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And if we take into account all the resources that have been spent on these issues, how is the current scale of taking care of the sea shores to what was before when it comes to the wider maritime economy?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u490	Thank you very much. I would like to ask the floor of Mrs Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u491	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I am a Warsaw Member and represent mainly the users of these beaches. It is about users who would like to go and use the beach, enjoy the sea. It's a very important investment. I've been paying attention to the coastfolds, the security cameras, the beaches, but the whole... As you know, the open sea has clean water, while the bay is sinic. It seems that because it is about securing the sea shores and so long the implementation of this programme, it should be an interdisciplinary programme and that is what I want to ask. So if we have wider beaches, but we cannot use them, then you are certainly wondering how to counter it, although we do not see the effects of this countering. And question two, even more important. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Well, we know that not all funds have been used, and as a user I also know that there are places absolutely unavailable for people with disabilities. Why were these places not equipped with such infrastructure that the sea would become accessible even to disabled children? Therefore, I have one last question. Are these architectural barriers planned for the coming year and, if so, to what extent will the percentage be removed? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u492	Thank you very much. I now ask Mr Andrzej Noble, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u493	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! My question will be to continue with the implementation of shore-buildings in Jastrzębia Góra. The Cliff in Jastrzębie Góra, which I visit every year, systematically receded in the 1990s at a rate of 0.5 m per year. The threat of objects located in the back of the cliff was first revealed in 1988, and as a result of the absence of storm sewers in 1998 and 1999 a series of landslides on the slopes of the cliff occurred in the area of the Ministry of Finance's holiday centre. Then an important decision was made to strengthen the cliff. The report shows that in 2021 a plan for strengthening the cliff was developed, a project for strengthening 100 m of cliff by means of a drilled-burning palisade and a permit procedure was launched. [[♪ The bell ♪]] My question concerns, Minister, what funding is secured under this project for 2022 and the following years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u494	Thank you very much. Now I ask the Secretary of State to speak at the Ministry of Infrastructure of Minister Mark Grybarczyk, who will certainly answer the questions asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u495	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Of course, the scope of work that should be done as part of maintaining the sea shores is a great challenge in principle every year, because storms or hurricanes that haunt us, maybe not hurricanes, but high-speed winds, cause huge damage. The funds that are spent are in most cases primarily for the reconstruction of the installation and, above all, for the reinforcements that were made. On the other hand, the work should continue, although we know exactly that this is Sisyphus work. What the sea will take from us, we must rebuild. Of course, there is still a discussion whether, at least, the bands that we start to build or are built in some places, for example in Łeba, which perform their role well in this area and actually rebuild the beaches, or do not cause a few hundred meters away - and this is what we are already dealing with, we see it - just degradation. There is a retreat of the beaches in these places. So the question is whether we should band everything, build concrete around the Polish coast or use other methods. All this is a specific feature of our sea, the Baltic Sea. We're still learning. Experience, immense experience of maritime offices. Because once again, I would like to point out that there is absolutely no policy in this. People who do these jobs, engineers who design or prepare for the realization, have been doing this for years and have a great deal of experience. From this point on, I would like to thank them very much for this. I hope that this work will continue professionally. Of course, we will carry out this work every year. It's not true that we just did okay. 86% These jobs, because we didn't make it. It is simply the conditions of implementation, as well as history, and so the whole process in 2020 was primarily the tendering process delayed this operation, but we have written it down into unexploited and at this point this money is simply spent and the work is continued. I don't really understand a few questions, and I'm just gonna go in general. Mr Szopiński, who combined the envelope elections, the degradation of the coast - I do not know what is at stake here. Our actions are about to stop the degradation of the coast and in all areas that require investment, there will be investments, of course, over time. I would also like to mention here that there is a very good cooperation between maritime authorities and local authorities. This is a state of self-government, which you were self-government, and you can confirm exactly. And no one seems to have any comment on individual officials or individuals in maritime offices, because these tasks are really doing well, and above all they have openness to local governments. We have some contentious elements, whether to build a bike path in the dunes and allow local governments e.g. pour asphalt on this dune, where in one case we have such a dispute. And we don't want to do that, we want to introduce another method of hardening this surface. However, the local government insists that the best solution is asphalt. We can discuss, but is that really right? The answer to all of us is: a far reaching desire to cooperate at some point has limits. As far as Pobierowo is concerned, this will, of course, continue to be carried out throughout the investment process. Recently, together with Mr Oświęcim, we were returning the pirus, which is prepared for fishermen, renovated, so work is ongoing and will be carried out there all the time. Of course, Mrs Fabisiak on interdisciplinary issues above all. This is a difficult topic mainly related to pollution. Thus, the Nitrates Directive, which is being implemented, i.e. the Sewage Directive, which is also being implemented. After all, we have an EU infringement in this regard due to a lack of adaptation of the agglomerations within the meaning of the Waste Water Act, in particular the possibility of waste water treatment. [[How is it implemented?]] On the other hand, we have cases like Tchaika, so we will definitely have bruises, although everyone said that it does not have a negative impact. We had Copper in Gdansk, so all these events cause the onset of sinic. The fight against sinics is impossible, because the only rational action to remove is copper sulphate. It's irrational if we try to fight it. So it's only through protection, and so limiting it, to raise the standards associated with the amount of pollution in the sewage. And above all, the Nitrates Directive, which should limit nitrate emissions to rivers, which is to stop this eutrophication, are the main objectives to be pursued, but are extremely difficult to achieve, because it simply enters the whole body of the state in the social and economic area. Of course, when it comes to going down to the beach, it's not true that we're not going down. The point is, they were exploitable by people with disabilities. The construction law tells us to comply with the construction standards, and they are very restrictive. There is no investment that would allow a solution other than those that would facilitate exits. However, building in every place such a descent is simply, among others. The degradation of the coast, so it is assessed, is subject to environmental impact reports, agreements, the consents of individual WDOŚs to carry out such exits. We do it in those places where we can do it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u496	Minister Jan Szopiński would like to correct why the envelope elections combined with the Maritime Coast Protection Programme, and he promises to do so in 15 seconds. [[Me, too, to correct.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u497	Dear Minister, Well, listen to my statement, because I informed the Polish society about what the Ministry of Infrastructure does. Because that's what they did, isn't it? So I have a question for you because I ended up saying, "Why did you use 86%?" appropriations and not 100% ? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Because that's what we're most interested in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u498	That's what I'm talking about. Mrs Fabisiak would also like to correct it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u499	Minister! First thing. Your answer was extremely pessimistic. That means the beaches will be widened, only people and kids won't be able to get in the water. If we need to rebuild the ecosystem, somebody's got to... Who's supposed to intervene? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Of course, the minister. Second thing. It's not true that wherever there might have been descents, there are exits. No, there are many places where it is possible to build a descent, and there is no such exit. And the money's still there. I would therefore ask for a written reply - that is the last word, Mr Marshal - which exits are possible and will be planned, because there is money from this year. They'll be built next year. If I can ask for an answer in writing, I'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u500	We oblige the Minister to reply in writing. This concludes the discussion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This document contains information on: the task of technical inspection of the reinforcement structures and the multi-annual agreement to carry out monitoring of the sea shores on the basis of data obtained by aerial laser scanning. In connection with these activities, an analysis of the protection of the sea shores in the region of Ustka and an opinion on the possible impact of the nuclear power plant on the seashore in the region of Kopalino - Lubiatowo were developed. Please inform me about the impact of the nuclear power plant on the seashore. What conclusions are included in this opinion? According to the activities carried out, is the Kopalino - Lubiatowo region suitable for the construction of a nuclear power plant?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u502	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The document presents a lack of comprehensive information on the relationship of the technical lanes of the investment sites, together with the cost estimate and the method of shore protection. According to the NIK report, maritime authorities too often define the width of the technical belt at the minimum level provided for by law. Sometimes the minimum (10 m) is not respected everywhere. Therefore, I would ask you to provide in writing such information relating to investments made in 2019, 2020 and 2021. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u503	The Committee on Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation requests that the information from print No 2105 be accepted. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. On this we exhausted the agenda of the 54th meeting of the Polish Sejm. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? [[Yes.]] Good. I'm closing this list. First... I don't see the list yet. Is there a problem with the list? Mrs Wanda Nowicka. She's not here. Mr Tomasz Zimoch. [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] There it is. There you go. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u504	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! She went missing exactly 30 years ago. Maybe even it was an hour. 18.52. On 12 May 1992 Wanda Rutkiewicz disappeared on her way to Kanchendzonga. For the last time he saw her come back from the top of the expedition, Carlos Carsolio. The Mexican Himalayaist encouraged Polka to abandon her entry to the third-highest point of the Earth. However, the Polish woman was determined, but since then the fate of Wanda Rutkiewicz is no longer known. Her body hasn't been found until today. She kept repeating: life tastes best when you can lose it. Let me remind you that the court in Warsaw declared her death on 13 May 1992. Wanda Rutkiewicz's life was full of bends, successes, but also dramatic moments. I will remind you that the Sejm in recognition of the huge merits declared the year 2022 Wanda Rutkiewicz. When I presented a draft resolution on this matter, I said, among others, that Wanda Rutkiewicz broke barriers, broke stereotypes. She became the forerunner of women's mountain ranges because she did not agree that able mountain climbers were only brooches in men's expeditions. She impressed with strength, physical fitness (the Bell), but also extraordinary intelligence. Andrzej Zawada, a prominent Himalayan, admitted years later that no one realized that this calm, somewhat different age girl had an iron character, enormous willpower and could be extremely disciplined in action. She felt freedom in the mountains. In 1978, she won Mount Everest, she was also the first woman on the hardest to get the K2 8,000, and the fight to win the remaining 8,000 thousands of dollars called the caravan to her dreams, because she wanted - as she justified - to push through something that seemed to be realized only in her dreams. May 12th. Though for a moment here in the Seym, let us think of an extraordinary woman. Wanda Rutkiewicz - striking beauty, lightning energy, sensitive, subtle, unique. Sports icon, inspiration for everyone. She went missing exactly 30 years ago. Right are those who say that she loved the mountains too much so that she wouldn't stay in them permanently. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u505	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk. Absent. But you are Mr Jan Szopiński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u506	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Staff of local, educational, scientific, school and social libraries celebrate the Library and Libraries Day on 8 May. It is a beautiful holiday for everyone who loves literature, literary monuments and stories written on printed pages. Librarians are seen as guardians of the written word, who, sharing it with readers, disseminate knowledge, Polish tradition and European values. Libraries, branches and readings in Bydgoszcz and Toruń as well as in other cities, municipalities and villages of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodship are often the second home for all hungry good literature, contacts with the world and good cultural society. Librarians also protect the monuments of Polish and world literature in library collections. Librarians and librarians from Kujaw and Pomerania, like lions and lions, fought to defend the Maciej Korwin Code from the collections of the Copernican Prince in Toruń. Unfortunately, law and justice politicians still want to take away this work and pass it on as a political promotion to Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, defender of the interests of war criminal Vladimir Putin. The bill by PiS in this case is still in Parliament, and Deputy Minister Sellin, present today, did not say that the government would resign (the bell) from passing the Code to Korwin Orbán. Therefore, on the occasion of Librarian and Libraries Day, I call on Prime Minister Morawiecki to block this sick idea of PiS politicians on behalf of the government. Taking the Code of Corwin from Poland and giving it to a friend of Vladimir Putin will be a crime on Polish culture and betrayal of Polish national interests. By blocking this bill, you will save the Prime Minister the amount of PLN 25 million. I appeal to the Prime Minister to transfer PLN 25 million saved in this way to the local libraries in Bydgoszcz and the Kujawsko-Pomorskie voivodeship, where they will be allocated to increases for librarians, library purchases and digitization of collections.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u507	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u508	On the occasion of Library and Libraries Day, I wish all employees of the Kujawsko-Pomorskie region's libraries with unfailing enthusiasm, success, perseverance and satisfaction in promoting books and reading. I also wish you health, a sense of value and every success in your personal life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u509	You can even extend these wishes to other voivodships.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u510	Mr. Marshal! I extend these wishes to all voivodships in Poland. At the same time, I hope that all voivodships will support the leaving of the Corwin Code in Toruń. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u511	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u512	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The public library staff satisfaction study carried out in 2021 shows that the salaries of library staff are abnormally low. Frustration grows, and the most talented and educated leave the profession. It is well known that the budgets of local libraries have been very low for years. On such a low level that annual statutory increases in minimum wage results in drastic flattening of the wage net, as well as to curiosities where the librarian at the beginning of his professional career earns less than an economic worker, and a librarian with many years of experience often earns the same as a newly employed one. Library directors have no other option than to pay similar salaries to all staff members. Let us add that most of the payments in the municipal or municipal library slightly exceed the lowest national one. That's all anyone can afford. As the librarians themselves say, this causes deep frustration and leads to a situation of dismissal of well-educated and enthusiastic people who, for economic reasons, cannot accept the financial conditions offered by the library. Nor can they be disagreed with when they say: public libraries are in many primary municipalities and often only cultural institutions. The range of activities (the Bell) of these institutions is constantly increasing. They serve as local cultural centres and are a place for the development of local communities. They provide access to modern technologies, knowledge and information, organize informal education and maintain local identity and regional heritage. Let us add what is extremely important that these services are free for users, so that they are designed to equalise opportunities and provide wide access to culture.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u513	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u514	Work in these centres requires education and continuous improvement of qualifications. There are passionate people working there with a sense of mission. Unfortunately, this work is becoming more and more like volunteering. Low wages are basic, but not the only problem with library financing. The crisis, the galloping inflation, the fight against the pandemic makes the local governments unable to...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u515	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u516	... meet the funding of libraries at the appropriate level. That is why I signed an appeal, a petition of the LABiB Association, in which it calls for a decent pay for employees of public libraries, restoration of prestige to the professional librarian and the launch of a nationwide grant program for libraries, among others. for the purchase of harvests...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u517	Mr Robert Obaz is preparing to speak. Is Mr Robert Obaz here?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u518	...and access to e-services supplementing the National Programme for the Development of Reading. I would like this appeal to be signed. I say this on behalf of libraries in Elbląg, Ostróda and any other county city or small community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u519	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u520	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We've all been getting e-mails for months. All of us sitting here, on every side of the room, maybe excluding one group, promised internship pensions. This is important from the point of view of those who have worked for 35, 40 or 45 years and started their work very early. The bill's drafts are filed, they're in the freezers today, and one has even been sent to the committee in the election campaign. President Andrzej Duda talked about how important these internship pensions are for all those who could benefit from them. We are aware that these pensions will not meet the financial expectations either, but they will be such a thank-you to all those people who expect them for their hard work, for their hard and long-term work, because those who started at the factory schools at the age of 15 - this is how they started at these factory schools - at the age of 60 they are 45 years old and sometimes very, very hard. I therefore appeal from this place to all those who today have control over these laws, to refer them to the committee to direct them to the session of the Sejm so that we can process them together. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I think we're all gonna agree to admit pensions like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u521	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u522	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, In my parliamentary statement, I would like to remind you that another 102nd anniversary of the birth of the outstanding Pole, Pope John Paul, is coming. II, due to 18 May this year. In view of this fact, the local authorities of Wadowice, the Holy Father's home town, have prepared a rich framework for this event, referring also to the signing of a cooperation agreement between the municipality of Wadowice and Portuguese Fatima this year. The celebration of the birth of our distinguished compatriot on 18 May will begin a solemn session of the Wadowice city council, followed by the laying of flowers under the monument of St. John Paul II and the Holy Mass in the Basilica of the Sacrifice of the Blessed Virgin Mary under the guidance of Fr. Archbishop Kraków Metropolitan Marek Jędraszewski. The next points, already realized on the Wadowice market, are a fairytale, shows of Portuguese cuisine with tasting and presentation of regional music of the partner city, Fatima. The whole will close the traditional concert of brass orchestras in honor of the Polish Pope. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Taking advantage of this opportunity, I would like to send congratulations to both the city authorities and everyone (the bell) involved in the implementation of this event and thank you for cultivating the memory of the person and teaching Karol Wojtyla, the outstanding Pole and the great Pope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u523	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gadowski, the Civic Coalition, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u524	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I think I'm gonna surprise you with something today: I don't think there's a holiday like in Żory in Silesia anywhere in the whole world. The Fire Festival has been celebrated every year since 320 years on May 11. It is the faithfulness of the oath which the ancestors made after the great fire that broke out in Żorach on May 11, 1702 and consumed a large part of the city. Then the inhabitants of the city spontaneously gathered and went through a begging procession, and this tradition is cultivated to this day. This festival is also accompanied by demonstrations of firefighters' equipment on the market and the following official award of firefighters' decorations. In the evening after the procession there are concerts, street theatres, in which fire is the guiding theme, and a street run at a distance of 5 km, which of course assumed the name of the Żorski Fire Pole. That was yesterday, May 11th. I had the pleasure of attending these celebrations. As the people say, it is an extraordinary tradition, which is the pride of our city. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Today, it is the 750th anniversary of the granting of city rights. Tradition is mixed with modern times, and the solidarity of the inhabitants is about their strength in difficult historical moments. The Żory are a city on the rights of the county, located in the Śląskie voivodship and counting more than 60 thousand. residents. They were founded on 24 February 1272 by Władysław, Duke of Opole and Raciborz. A specific part of the history of the city are numerous fires, which resulted largely from the narrow building of the city. In the years 1522-1882 the city burned more than 30 times. As I mentioned, in 1702 the fire consumed a significant part of Żor: the market, adjacent streets, as well as the interior and the new dome of the church of St. Philip and Jacob. The mayor of the city of Marcin Szolc was killed as a result of storm poisoning. After this fire, the custom of celebrating the fire festival became established, when the inhabitants ask God for protection from fire. Until 1939, the fire festival was a church-state holiday, free from work and school. In 1946, after the war, there was still a procession, but the next one had to wait longer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u525	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u526	The difficult history of the city and the solidarity of the people of Żor, which has been tried many times, have shaped a strong attitude that is today a result of mature civil society. So from this point on, I would like to wish all the people of Zor a heartfelt wish...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u527	Mr Grzegorz Lorek. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u528	...a safe future, continuous development of their small homeland and perseverance in the pursuit of their goals and successes. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u529	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Mr Grzegorz Lorek.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u530	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! The Constitution of May 3rd and the Pietroking. The Constitution adopted on 3 May 1791 in Warsaw was the second in Europe and the third in the world fundamental act governing political and social relations in the state in a modern way. Only the Americans and the Corsicans beat us. I am not going to talk about the Constitution, because there have been many works, books and certainly many statements on this subject. Today I will focus in a few words on those who participated in the uprising of the Constitution and were sons of the Piotrków land. I've introduced Józef Pawlikowski before. He was born in Rozba near Piotrków. He received his studies at the piotrkowski high school, and as secretary of Tadeusz Kościuszko he wrote a famous political brochure entitled: Can Poles become independent? His colleague was Tomasz Maruszewski, son of Piotrkowski's patrician, who was nominated by the Grand Sejm. Regional historians Paweł Kędra and the late Krzysztof Urządowski agree that if it were not for the enthusiasm and hard work of Pawlikowski and Maruszewski, the shape of the constitution could be completely different. Both fighters had a fundamental influence on how the basic act regulated the legal situation of cities and townspeople in the Republic of Poland. For before the constitution was adopted in the atmosphere of the coup d'état on 3 May 1791, on 18 April of the same year (The Bell) passed the law on cities, which almost entirely became part of it. At nine solemn sessions of the city council between June 1791 and April 1792 the Piotrkow councillors swore an oath to the new law. The document confirming this solemn act was successfully preserved until today. There are 170 signatures. The first one was signed by Alexander Watson, Scottish national president of the city. Grabowski's Atanase signed in Greek and Izydor Staudinger signed in German. I will be faithful to the brightest King and the Republic, Obedience to the Laws and Laws of the Sejm for the strictest I take the duty of the Authority of the City of Piotrków, in which I am attached to Citizenship, to be subject to the Wanted and Duty of All Keep. Everything I have betrothed for myself as well as My Successors. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u531	We thank you very much for making this statement. I do not see Mrs Margaret Chmiel in the room. Then we ask that Mr Maciej Kopc speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u532	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The presidential project for establishing the National Day of the Silesian Uprising is at least ambiguous. It is right from the point of view of the beneficial impact of the annexation of Silesia on Poland. Economic statistics say that after the annexation in its territory, which accounted for only 1% Poland's surface, produced 90% industrial production and 60% export products in the then economy of Poland. Upper Silesia was a developed, rich, highly industrialized, urbanized area of great economic, social and cultural value. After two uprisings caused by the loss of Germany in World War I and bad social sentiments, it was decided to conduct a plebiscite in Upper Silesia. There were two options: Germany or Poland. There was no basic question about Silesia which did not belong to any of the countries neighbouring it. The Upper Silesians had previously prayed for such a possibility. The result of the vote preceded by intense propaganda activities was unfavourable for Poland. After the plebiscite, Poland's winnings were called unspoken by contemporary historians, the Polish-German war, which we can definitely call a civil war as Silesians. The President's initiative calls the Silesian uprisings, so it should be an uproar of the Silesian population for Poland. The truth is that Poland carried out earlier recruitments to its troops among the Silesian population, led training camps, strengthened troops of insurgents on leave at that time officers, petty officers and soldiers of its army. She delivered weapons, ammunition, even heavy combat equipment. Thanks to this, the Silesian annexation (the bell) could succeed. The effect was one of the greatest successes of the Polish state of the 20th century, perhaps the second most important in terms of success and importance of these successes after regaining independence. However, he was a success in the blood and misfortune of the Upper Silesians. I am aware that the propaganda of false thesis, that Poland was a matrix for Silesia, started in the 20s, and confirmed by the communist authorities after the Second World War, when again in the Upper Silesian tragedy tried to exterminate the Silesian nationality, could be incomprehensible today, hence my appeal. If the President wishes to express his respect for the Silesians, please do not listen to party colleagues like Marshal Chełstowski, who speaks only with the voice of Warsaw. Please also do not listen to the two-member Social and Cultural Society of Poland Silesia, because the project is based on only one social opinion. Listen to nearly one million Polish citizens who declared their Silesian nationality in the last census, and half a million people who have their Silesian language. Please help us in our efforts to recognise the Silesian ethnic minority and our language, as we have been asking for for many, many years. Please do not follow the post-Soviet road imposed after World War II. We ask for support for our heritage. There is no need for gestures that humiliate, discriminate, destroy identity and forgery history. I would like to say two very important things as Silesian.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u533	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u534	I'm almost done. That's not separatism. It is also not a pro-German voice to which I will try to convert my words to party television, it is a cry for the possibility of being myself in a European modern country where no one should be deprived of identity, language, culture and historical truth. Helping our minority would be an unprecedented act of courage on your part and an act that would be appreciated and respected by the entire Silesian community. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u535	Thank you. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Claudia Jachir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u536	President of the Committee for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy. Kaczyński's security! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, the PiS-owska majority to the company with Kukiz without serious discussion on the state's finances, huge debt, without any reflection on the reasons for inflation and rising loan instalments, expensive and poorer society chose Adam Glapiński for the second term of office of President of the NBP. This choice will cost us dearly. To see what awaits us for the next six years, let us remind you of his accomplishments in his previous term of office. For the last six years, he's said something completely different than what he's done. Here are some examples. 20 July 2021: It would be unwise to raise interest rates until the pandemic situation is resolved. I would like to stress that inflation has no negative impact on the wealth of Polish wallets. All salaries and pensions increase significantly faster than inflation. We don't want appreciation, we don't want gold fortification. Few countries want their currency to grow. I don't think so at the moment. An increase in interest rates would be a school mistake. And then a few weeks later, he started raising them. Prime Minister Tusk was right, who said that he would be afraid to entrust the School Savings Fund to him, let alone direct the National Bank of Poland. Every Pole, no matter what his views, should be able to trust and trust the head of NBP, but as you can (the bell) have confidence in someone who is practicing propaganda, who made a party outbuilding from a serious state institution, when not as far as yesterday the nominat was going to the head of the PiS party for instructions when he played a currency reduction. How to trust him if, according to the Global Finance ranking, Adam Glapiński as head of the Central Bank has been rated the worst in Europe on an equal footing with the heads of the banks of Belarus and Ukraine. Moreover, President Glapiński sees the guilty everywhere, but he does not feel responsible for himself. He doesn't learn from his mistakes. He talks about pandemics, putinflations, while in our case external factors have a much smaller impact on the current fatal state of the economy, and to a large extent the PiS-inflation, the political availability of the head of NBP, is due to everything. Last sentences. It was under the leadership of Glapiński that the money began to be made in mass. PLN 144 billion were produced by the NBP and passed on to the government, which was a violation of the Constitution, and this was a delay in fueling inflation. How Did He Appreciate It? Former head of NBP, Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Finance Prof. Balcerowicz, the mistake was also a radical reduction in interest rates because it stopped paying off, and this...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u537	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u538	...also contributed to the increase in inflation. Last sentence. We have actually dealt with the cooperation of two bodies, which should be independent of each other: the NBP and the Minister of Finance. In conclusion, Adam Glapiński is the ideal candidate for the State Tribunal, not for the second term of office of the head of the National Bank of Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u539	And that last one, what movie is it from? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Thank you very much. [[Thank you.]] Mr Michał Grammar.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u540	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the Gdynia port there is a yacht, the history of Polish sailing, ¿Zwisza Czarnyż. He's standing and rusting. This was the beginning of my statement made in October 2021. The owner of this yacht, the Main Accommodation of the Polish Scouting Association, promised that he would go on a cruise in the spring, that it would be temporary problems that they would do anything to ensure that he would continue to serve primarily the training of marine scouts and scout instructors. That's what ZHP chief, a serious person, said: "The hangover will sail in April. The yacht is functional, renovated. It cost hundreds of thousands of zlotys and countless hours of volunteer work, scouts and scouts, and former scouts, sailors, people for whom the legend hangs is and has always been a value. ZHP promised a new shipping office, captains who would swim with young people, cruises in the Baltic Sea, charters, rent, Lisbon, World Youth Days, but above all there was a promise that the ship would serve young people - scouts and scouts, children in love with sailing. None of this has been kept. ZHP headquarters! How do you want to take care of your youth's upbringing (the bell) when your word cannot be relied upon. You lied in the name of the rule that the promised one would fit a lot. Mr. President! Patrons of the Polish Scouts Association! Prime Minister! Minister Dworczyk! You're all former Boy Scouts. So cute-looking are the pictures of you guys taking at Girl Scout parties. Maybe this is your time. Maybe it's worth showing responsibility today, giving the Boy Scouts the help they need today. The scouts in Gdynia have existed in various forms since 1934, and today the yacht - the icon of the training of Polish young people rusts in the port on the moorings, and the plans associated with it, repeating after Joseph Conrad, go down to the dogs. Ports are no place for sailors. Sailboats should swim in the seas and oceans, should be used to raise children and young people, to raise sailors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u541	Thank you very much. Mr Artur Łącki will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the classics, there are two things certain in this world: taxes and death. If the author of these words, Benjamin Franklin, lived in Poland in modern times, would probably add a radio-television subscription, although looking at the design of the regulations on the subscription, you can get the impression that they were written at the time of the country's existence, so much earlier lived this outstanding American scholar and politician. The catalogue of entities obliged to pay the subscription is long and probably covers all legal and natural persons in Poland. Of course, there is also a quite large list of people and entities exempt from its payment, but generally all households, companies and offices have to pay. It's worth mentioning more about companies. Reading a list of entities which, regardless of the number of receivers they hold, pay a subscription for only one, we find on it, among others. non-public units of education system, non-public sanatoriums, non-public welfare homes, and these are largely companies, which, like any other company, are aimed at profit. For example. hotel and tourist companies have to pay for each receiver, whether they have full coverage, whether they have a tourist season or are finally making profits - and in recent pandemic years many of these companies have not achieved and suffered losses. Therefore, I believe it is high time that the amendment of the Law of 21 April 2005 should be amended. [[♪ The bell ♪]] about subscription fees. In my opinion, it is time to stop with the archaic system of recording receivers and collecting charges for them by the Polish Post.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u543	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u544	In the age of digitalisation, it could be safely linked to the payment of fees for a RTV subscription with the submission of annual tax returns. In the case of economic operators, the subscription fee should be linked to the profit achieved and the percentage determined. A public-named radio and television would have a certain income that would have been paid for by the fiscals. Income independent of the number of advertisements issued and independent of political decisions. Perhaps then there would be no situation that governments treat public media as their propaganda tube, as we have seen for six years. Both of these institutions would be given the opportunity to be genuinely independent and fulfil the mission they were called to and citizens would be able to watch and listen to their programs without surprise and disgust.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u545	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u546	Today, people are surprised that you can lie to reality so much, and they disgust you at practicing intrusive propaganda policies. Then you could talk about the efficiency of the subscription system, and companies would pay tribute for actual profits. It is a separate matter to determine what percentage of income would constitute such a fee, but it is certainly possible to reach an agreement on this. Last sentence, Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry. I call on my fellow Members to address this issue, as it may turn out that if such a solution succeeds, we will be remembered as those who have restored independent public media to society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u547	Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u548	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Dawn Housing Cooperative in Ełk has recently become very ill-known, thanks to scandalously high heating subsidies, i.e. higher by approx. 100% , and average residents must pay 40-50% more every month than before. The tenants, surprised by the increases in hundreds, went out on the street last Friday without really understanding what had happened to them, for which their fate had happened. And there are about 8400 members. After recent increases in electricity and gas, they have now received enormous force in the pockets of heating and rent increases. This is also the beginning of the drama for many of these people, many families who have found themselves in a situation where they will certainly not be able to settle new commitments. They're gonna have to choose between paying the loan, paying for kindergarten, daycare or buying drugs or even food. There are also no coherent, comprehensive rules on how heating costs are cleared. Cooperatives therefore regulate this internal regulation. And all of this is a consequence of our government's long-term negligence. From slowing down on the expression of renewable energy sources to the country's unrepresented policy on spending CO revenues I received a reply to my interpellation on this subject that Poland received total revenues of around 60 billion in 2013-2021, of which 51 billion went to our country's budget, please. I repeat: 51 billion to the state budget. The government can allocate these funds directly to tax reliefs, to cover measures aimed directly at citizens. This is just the beginning of all the raises.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u549	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u550	Coal prices are rising at an alarming rate, gas prices are also rising, because Poland has not yet concluded contracts with other suppliers. Prime Minister Morawiecki! So I ask again today: What government cover measures are directed directly at citizens, among others. such as residents of the Świt housing cooperative in Ełk, as well as other members of the cooperative in Poland, whose fate awaits the same fate? Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u551	Thank you very much. Mr Waldemar Andzel will make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u552	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today's statement is about the importance of sovereignty in the context of the war in Ukraine. Globalism didn't work out. We're back to our roots. It turned out that the guarantee of the security of the state, the region, the guarantee of the security of the continent is the sovereignty of the country concerned. Only sovereign and independent, slow to compromise with an aggressor, but courageously defending her territory Ukraine is a guarantor the safety of all of us. After more than 70 days of war, this reached Germany and France, which not only did not assume leadership, but now they are forced to re-create the foundations of politics towards Russia. It turns out that our implacable attitude, our open borders and our hearts, our uncompromising foreign policy changes European order. There is no doubt that we will be the key country of the eastern NATO flank, and our military potential will change the balance of forces in the region. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u553	Thank you very much, sir, especially for the time discipline. Mr Waldemar Andzel can be a model today. And now we ask you to make a statement by Małgorzata Sekula-Szmajdzińska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u554	I'll try to be exemplary, too. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm performing as a lobbyist today, and I'm not ashamed of it. I lobby for the Polish Navy. On 6 May, as the godmother of the ORP, I participated in Gdynia on the celebration of the 90th anniversary of the founding of the Submarine Division. I really wanted this to be a joyous holiday, but unfortunately, aside from meeting sailors I've known for a long time and becoming a godmother 20 years ago, there was no reason for joy. It wasn't because there's no squadron anymore. There is only ORP Eagle, who is still on duty, but it is not really known when he will finish it. The rest are museum objects. Sailors are asking everyone to understand how much Poland needs submarines. We need to be safe and not just frigate enough. The whole defense system is frigates and submarines. The last ships were bought by the government of the Left, then there was silence. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u555	Beautiful, thank you very much. [[Margaret Sekuła-Szmajdzińska: Perfectly on time.]] Perfectly, but also a very moving statement, Member. [[Margaret Sekuła-Szmajdzińska: Thank you, Marshal.]] Mr Krzysztof Tuduj - absent. Mrs Teresa Pamuła - it seems that too. Somewhere here, Mr Jarosław Rzepa has been in the Chamber recently, but he is also absent. Therefore, we invite you to the floor of Joanna Fabisiak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! May 2 is the day of Polonia and Poles, from whom the border emigrated. This is an important day for each of us, because who has no family, closer or further, friends, cousins who live somewhere in the world, on different continents, from Iceland to Australia and all other places on earth. This is an important day, because we are obliged and grateful to our fellow countrymen abroad for their loyalty to their homeland, for their work for the good name of Poland, and before that for the struggle, sometimes uncompromising, for independence. On this day, celebrated only in narrow environments, I would like everyone to wish that they would continue in this fidelity. But I would also like to wish, first of all, all those young people who have gone away to support those who are on duty but need help. In Chicago every year for many, for decades there has been a parade on the occasion of the Constitution on May 3rd. We can be proud to look at these thousands of Poles in white-red outfits, demonstrating, highlighting their pride in being Poles. There are students of many Polish schools going there. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And we would like to wish and Polonia, and these young people, to increase the ranks of the patriotic, faithful country of Polonia as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u557	Thank you very much. Mr Rzepa is looking at the board. Unfortunately, you were absent when your time was up, and you were moved to your last position. [[Joy in the Chamber]] And now you will be speaking with Mr Andrzej Gazwed. [[Adam.]] Adam. And do you know why Andrzej, sir? Because I had a friend with a name like that. [[Pleasure to meet you, Marshal.]] I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u558	Mr. Marshal, I'm very, very happy to see you. High Izbo! Marine wind energy has a chance to become a strategic project of transformation of the energy sector in Poland. However, its development brings many challenges, given that we are talking about the operation of projects that are first carried out in the history of our country. I would therefore like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and the ministers and institutions responsible for the great work that has been done so far. Like I said, there's a lot of challenges. These include: appropriate implementation and coordination of administrative and legislative procedures, but also challenges related to technical aspects such as the pace of development of offshore wind turbine technologies, port availability and installation and service fleet. Finally, what is important in terms of the development of our economy - to ensure an adequate level of participation of Polish companies in the projects carried out. Currently, there are around 400 companies in our country that are able to participate in the development of offshore wind energy. Our aim should be to create such conditions that they will gain, firstly, a position on the market that allows them to act as leaders in foreign companies, secondly, the export of knowledge and technology. I also hope that the development of this industry will take place using production potential and human Silesia. Our region needs special support in the implementation of the energy transition. It will be really fair, among others. when production plants (the Bell) are set up, specializing in new support industries, cooperating and developing wind energy. The development of offshore wind farm technologies is also one of the chances of achieving a water-based economy vision. It is already worth focusing on the correlation of projects involving the production and marketing of fuel for the future. The current international situation calls for particular attention to the safety challenges of offshore wind farms. While discussing their development, we must also bear in mind that as part of the energy security of the farm, they will become critical infrastructure facilities which will need to be protected by extensive and effective measures. Thank you so much and I apologize for the extension of time. I tried to cut it short. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u559	Thank you very much. It's okay. Mrs Urszula Zielińska, the Civic Coalition, will certainly also take care of time discipline.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u560	Yes, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Today, the Sejm re-elected Adam Glapiński as head of the National Bank of Poland, although according to the magazine Global Finance, which annually publishes the ranking of the central bank presidents in the world, Adam Glapiński is one of the worst presidents in the ranking. Such a low grade is an effect, among others. its passiveness in the face of rising prices already in 2021, but the list of omissions of President Glapiński is longer. E.g. President Glapiński completely ignores the risk of climate change for the Polish financial sector. This risk is taken seriously by the majority of central banks in the world, among others. the organisation of NGFS, a global network of central banks and supervisors, which currently brings together 114 members, including all central banks of the European Union, except Poland. The aim of NGFS is to adapt economies to new climate challenges, but neither the NBP nor the President of Glapiński is present. And that's ignoring the fact of climate change and its impact, for example. long-term food prices led to an underestimation of inflation in 2021. President Glapiński! 70% The citizens don't want you as head of NBP. If you had a little shame, you would have left today, and even so, you would have helped us save the economy (the bell) from the crisis. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u561	Amazing, really. Mr Vladimir Tomaszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u562	I'm responding. The speech of the opposition about banksters and caused by this opposition to drown out the noise at the appointment of the President of the National Bank of Poland obliges me after these many speeches to repeat: I would only like to have bankers who give such economic growth and low unemployment as Adam Glapiński's. There were bankers who gave high unemployment, I repeat: high unemployment, low wages and the collapse of many businesses. If the Left doesn't see it in particular... I regret the fact that the Polish People's Party does not see this either, because I do not count on liberals, pseudo-oliberists, from the Civic Platform or the Civic Coalition. Indeed, many have turned away, but you should mention how it was in the 1990s and also at the beginning of this new century. Only then can the opinion be objective. Adam Glapiński has proven himself in this position in particularly difficult conditions - and it is good that he is re-established - a pandemic through which we have been through, can be said, dry foot, and at the same time under war conditions. I think he's the best candidate who was lucky enough to be re-elected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u563	Thank you very much, sir. I would like to make a statement by Mr Andrzej Noble, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u564	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my statement, I wanted to present to the High House a beautiful celebration which took place on 7 May this year in Rzeszów, on the occasion of the 30th anniversary. Caritas of the Rzeszow Diocese. During this ceremony, preceded by the Holy Mass concelebrated by Fr. Ordinary Dr. John the Liver, at the Theological and Pastoral Institute the commemorative statues of the Merciful Samaritan were presented. The statuette was handed to the long-term director of Caritasu Fr. Prime Minister Stanisław Słowik, who served this function for 28 years. The commemorative statuettes were also handed over to people supporting Caritasu's activities and representatives of organisations supporting these activities. The statuette was handed over by the present director of the Diocese of Caritasu Fr. Dr. hab. Piotr Stooped. Caritas Diocese Rzeszowska is the largest and most powerful charity organization in Podkarpacie, which has been operating since 8 May 1992, established by the decree of Fr. bp. Ordinary Kazimierz Górny. I would like to give my special thanks and congratulations to Fr. for 28 years of great charity, full consecration, determination (the Bell) and open heart, which he showed to the poor, abandoned, sick, disabled - all those in need. I had the honour and satisfaction of working with the priest of the Director as President of Solidarity of the Rzeszów University of Technology, as President of Rzeszów and later as a Member of the Polish Parliament. In many projects I managed to cooperate with the priest director and provide organizational and financial support to this wonderful charity, led by a wonderful, good man, priest, socialist, great patriot, great Pole. For these 28 years of great driving Caritas from the heart, thank you Fr. dyr. Stanisław Słowik. God bless you! Plurimos annos! Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u565	Thank you very much. The statement will be made by Mr Jarosław Rzep.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u566	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Let Marshal Piłsudski come out of hiding, let him create a government, let him take all the creative factors that are at heart. If he does not do so, he will feel that he does not really care about ordering relations in the state - these words, ladies and gentlemen, said Vincenty Witos on 9 May 1926, the day before the May coup. Today I would like to commemorate in particular those 379 people who died on both sides of the conflict on 12-15 May 1926. The reason for the assassination was the deteriorating political and economic situation of the country, and the direct cause was a series of cabinet crises in 1925-1926. On 12 May, after Piłsudski's unsuccessful conversation with President Wojciechowski, Piłsudski's faithful troops took positions at Wisla Bridges in Warsaw. After the opening of the fire to the bombers by government troops filling the western exit of the Kierbedzia bridge in the city, street fighting began, and Piłsudski's troops after the control of the Kierbedzia bridge began to occupy Warsaw in a southern direction. The coup was supported by the Polish Trade Union of Railways, which announced a strike, blocking the transport of government forces from the west to Warsaw, while allowing the transport of troops loyal to Marshal Piłsudski. On 12 and 13 May, Marshal Maciej Rataj made his last attempt to negotiate, which failed in the face of the President's relentless position. On 14 May Piłsudski took control of Warsaw. There were 379 deaths as a result of the fights, and Wincent Witos' government resigned. Ladies and gentlemen! Today, after 96 years, we are asking for the truth, for the annulment of the Brest judgment, about the creators of the Polish state, which you often talk about, but you do not respect them. You don't respect me. We're gonna be waiting 100 years to cancel because Vincent Witos doesn't suit you? It's disgusting and disgraceful. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u567	Thank you very much for this important statement. In fact, today is 96. The anniversary of the disgraceful assassination in 1926 when the blood of the innocent 379 victims was shed. I thank the Member for commemorating this event. And Mrs Pamula will be the last to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u568	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today, May 12th is the anniversary of the death of a great man - Marshal Józef Piłsudski. In my hometown, Horyńc-Zdroj, Marshal of Piłsudski worships the whole school community, youth and children from primary school. Marshal Józef Piłsudski. On this occasion, students wrote several statements. I picked one of them I'd like to read right now. This is a statement by Jan Wiśniewski from the eighth grade. Welcome, everyone here. You have probably met with the figure of Józef Piłsudski many times, which is a very good thing, because he is a person who deserves a lot of respect and memory of his fellow countrymen. Personally with the character of the marshal, in my life, I have had a lot of contact because he is the patron of my school, of which as a student I am very proud, for example, because of how much he contributed to our homeland, after all it was thanks to him that our homeland, our country, our nation regained its independence. He was a great patriot and, above all, a good man. I have been told many times at school how good Józef Piłsudski was also for people around him, for example, I can tell you that we were told how he was giving candy to children during walks. [[♪ The bell ♪]] At the time of his death, a large part of the country was in despair because after all he had done for them, he left at the age of 68. Because of all he has done for the nation, he is considered one of the most important Poles in history until today. In my personal opinion, it is worth remembering him as a nation, and for this reason Poles pay great respect to him by establishing him as the patron of many institutions, including my school, which I mentioned earlier, I am very proud of. A great opportunity to recall what he has done for the country is today, the day of the patronage. Finally, I would like to thank everyone warmly for their attention. I, too, thank you very much to the marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u569	Thank you very much. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u570	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Nurses, Nurses, Midwives and Midwives! Today is your holiday. On this occasion, on behalf of yourself and all the people you help every day, I wish you all happy and successful moments, happiness in your professional and personal life and satisfaction with your work. May you never run out of warmth and kindness. Happy birthday.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u571	Dear Marshal! May 13th this year The I Grand Prix will be held in Ciechanów. Ireneusz Paliński in lifting weights. There would be nothing unusual about it, because all over Poland sports competitions are held the name of our outstanding athletes. Tournaments, meetings, memorials. So why is the sports event in Ciechanów so important? Ciechanów is a medium-sized city with a rich history, including the sports one. However, we are far from the big centres with famous clubs, medalists and record makers. That's why we can't forget those athletes who made our town look like a sports map. It's very important for the local community, not just the sports community. It is a reason to be proud, but also an inspiration for the young generation of cechanists that work, stubbornness and love can lead them to the top. Not just in sports. After many years, the family and sports activists managed to restore Ireneus Paliński's memory in a way that was due. The numerous Polish record holder, the first gold medalist in this sport from Rome 1960 and the bronze from Tokyo 1964 did not have an easy way to sports laurels. For many years, family responsibilities did not allow him to engage in sports. Only military service, natural predispositions and talent have made Ireneus Paliński an athlete of the world format. Tough, upright, hardworking and conscientious. A loner from Ciechanów. He trained in his own gym, rarely used the help of coaches and did not like central groups. He's an athlete in the flesh and blood. The success of Ireneusz Paliński began a long way to the highest honors of Polish barbells at world-class events. As I pointed out at the beginning, the tournament to them. Ireneusz Paliński is a thank you to this unique athlete for his achievements. It doesn't matter that he's organizing the Mazovia Ciechanów tournament, which has been his club for many years, and young cechanists picking up weights have a role model. Ciechanov athletes have repeatedly proven on the platform of the country, Europe and the world that they are worthy successors of our Olympics. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u572	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! As we know, building a new road S6 is now the most awaited and undoubtedly the most important road investment in Pomerania. As an MP, I sought to finance the construction of this road. Thanks to the construction of the new route, residents will gain not only improved traffic flow and reduced travel time, but also improved safety. Next episodes will soon be opened: the episode of Bożepole Wielkie - Luzino, Luzino - Szemud and Szemud - Gdynia, and all subsequent episodes up to Słupsk have already selected performers and have passed to the stage of implementation. I would like to remind you that it was our government that secured the funds to build a network of key roads across the country. In many places, the predecessors drew road lines for which there was no financial guarantee. This route offers greater opportunities for the economy and tourism, improves the coherence of national road networks and, above all, facilitates communication. Construction is of great importance for the merger of the largest cities of northern Poland, among others. Szczecin, Gdansk, Gdynia, Lęborka, Słupska or Koszalin. The development of the road infrastructure of our region is gaining momentum. During this time, intensive work is also underway on the reconstruction of section DK 21 from Słupska to Ustka, which will improve the tourist and economic attractiveness of the region. This is why I would like to thank the Ministry of Infrastructure, the General Directorate for National Roads and Motorways and all those involved in these key investments once again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u573	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On 12 May we celebrate International Nurses and Obstetrics Day. This is a moment that prompts us to reflect on the presence of ladies and gentlemen performing these professions in each of our lives. Most often these are the most important and difficult moments. From birth to leaving. Although these are difficult and demanding moments, and the pursuit of these professions involves great effort and sacrifice, we can always count on help, support and a good word. International Nurses and Obstetrics Day is an excellent opportunity to appreciate their work and commitment. Today, speaking directly to you, I would like to pay my respects to all men and women performing this competition. On the occasion of your holiday, I wish you a lot of health and well-being, satisfaction with your work done, and respect for the institutions of the state and all citizens, who show themselves under the right conditions of work and appreciation for your dedication. Happy birthday! Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The MEPs of the Civic Platform, the Left and Poland 2050 supported further blocking of funds from KPO for Poland. When the war continues in the immediate vicinity of our country, Poland is sacrificially helping millions of Ukrainian refugees and supporting the fighting Ukraine, in the European Parliament there are worse behaviours of the Polish opposition. On their initiative and with the support of allies in the European Parliament, they issue a resolution calling on the European Commission to further block PLN 700 billion of KPO funds for Poland. The PiS government, like other representatives of this party, is in favour of the immediate mobilisation of funds for our country. Unfortunately, the European Parliament resolution on the rule of law in Poland has been adopted. The MEPs called on the EC and the Council to take more decisive steps and further block Poland's funds from the National Reconstruction Plan. The resolution was voted in favour of 426 Members, 133 against, 37 abstentions. This is how the plan of financial starving and grilling of Poland by the EC is tried. It should be added that, despite the adoption of more than 3 million refugees by Poland from the EU, we have not yet received a single euro of support. This is a continuation of the hypocrisy of the Polish opposition, because as I mentioned, the resolution was prepared by MEPs, among others. The European People's Party, the leader of which Donald Tusk is in the EU. Earlier, Mr PiS, a member of the ECR, had tabled an amendment allowing Poland to be paid back from the reconstruction instrument. Polish MEPs from POs and SLDs did not support the amendment of the PIS and ECR, thanks to which the European Commission could send financial assistance to Poland. They didn't want the money to go to locals and entrepreneurs who are now helping refugees from Ukraine.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-12-sejm-54-2.u575	Information about the impact of the interpellation, queries and answers to them is available in the Sejm Information System. This concludes the 54th session of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland. The minutes of the sitting will be submitted to the Secretariat of the Sejm. The agenda of the 55th session of the Sejm, convened on 25 and 26 May 2022, was served to the ladies and gentlemen. We're adjourned. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[The meeting is adjourned at 3 p.m. 19 min 48]]
