ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u1	I open the forty-fifth session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska and Senator Viktor Durlak to be the secretary of the sitting. The list of speakers will be kept by the Secretaries. In view of the situation of epidemic danger, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to continue the meeting in the hybrid formula, i.e. traditionally and using means of distance communication. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner shall be laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. I would like to remind you, traditionally, that the senators taking part in the sitting in a remote way... I'm asking for permission to see if your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal, under which you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Office. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. I would add that, in terms of air conditioning, which last night, I say, colded up some of the committee members, the techs intervened. If anyone gets cold or hot, please report it, we will try to regulate it somehow. And now there's a vote, who's cold, who's hot. [[Joy in the Chamber]] Ladies and gentlemen, seriously speaking, we will now proceed to a vote which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the sitting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 1 Senator working remotely please take a look if the signal is being sent. Can you show me who it is? No, you're the one who has to click... [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's clicking into those three dots. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Kobiak, please pay attention... But now I'm missing a screen showing other voters. I'm asking you to bring him back. [[Voice from the room: We can already...]] But I don't have that screen right now... Well, I'm gonna ask you to give me the result. 91 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting, although this number is increasing. I would remind you that to vote remotely... So-called. querying on Webex will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, we click "OK" and then press "Transmit" two times: after voting in the voting window and in response to the question of confirmation. Ladies and gentlemen, I inform you that the Sejm, at its fifty-sixth meeting on 8 and 9 June 2022, adopted the only amendment of the Senate tabled to the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws, adopted most of the amendments of the Senate tabled to the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals and some other laws, and adopted part of the amendments of the Senate tabled to: the Act amending certain laws in order to automate certain matters by the National Tax Administration; the Act amending the Law on Supreme Court and some other laws. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments to the Act on port equipment for the reception of waste from ships and rejected the Senate's resolutions rejecting: the Act on the Copernicus Academy; the Act on the amendment of the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws; the Act on the amendment of the Law on Foreign Service and some other laws. I would also like to inform you that the Sejm, at its 50th meeting on 23 June 2022, adopted most of the amendments tabled to the Act on Organic Agriculture and Organic Production, adopted part of the amendments of the Senate tabled to the Act amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and some other laws, rejected the amendments of the Senate tabled to: the Act amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic remuneration of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws; the Act amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and certain other laws, and rejected the resolution of the Senate rejecting the Act on the amendment of the Act on Government Administration Acts and certain other laws. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points two, 5 to 11 and 13 to 17 of the draft agenda be considered, even though the committee's reports on them have been submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the Law on specific arrangements to protect the customers of certain solid fuels in view of the situation on the market for these fuels and consider it as item 3 of the agenda; Act amending the Act on public documents and consider it as item four of the agenda. This second point is introduced at this point due to the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I propose to change the order of consideration of the previous second point: the second reading of the draft resolution on the findings made by the Senacki Group on matters of GETBACK S.A. and consider it as point 13 of the previous paragraph of the twelfth paragraph: the Law amending the Geological and Mining Law and certain other laws The law on amending the Law on Commercialisation and Restructuring of a State Enterprise (Polish State Railways) (Polish State Railways) (Polish State Railways) (Polish State Railways) (Polish State Railways) (Polish State Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish State Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Railways) (Polish Maritime Safety Act) (Polish Maritime Safety Act) (Polish Maritime Regulations) (Polish and certain other laws) (Polish Law (Polish Water Law) (Polish Law) And consider it as point seventeen, which is generally the result of requests from the resorts. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that, at the request of the Law and Justice Club, an adjournment will be announced at 5 p.m. at 8.30 p.m., but the proceedings will continue later. I would like to inform you that immediately after the examination of the first point concerning the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of Poland's accession to Upper Silesia, there will be a vote on this matter. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Tomorrow, we will resume the session at 1 p.m. after considering the item... [[Voices from the O.R.: 10:00 a.m.]] Excuse me, 10 a.m. since the 13th. This is a lapsus resulting from two numbers. [[Talking in the O.R.]] 10:00 p.m. since the 13th. And so many messages, as the Anglo-Saxons say, kitchens. We begin to consider the item on the first agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of Poland's accession to Upper Silesia. I would remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 720. According to Art. Article 84 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 Rules of Procedure of the Senate This draft, after agreement with the clubs and the senate circles, was included on the agenda without first reading. I ask the authorized representative of the applicants, Senator Halina Poora, to present a draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! As your marshal was kind to say, this project was agreed between clubs and wheels. I would like to thank Senator Czerwinski very warmly, with whom we have mainly worked on this text. Let me read the resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 100th anniversary of Poland's accession to Upper Silesia. 100 years ago the process of taking over the Polish parts of Upper Silesia by the independent state ended. Reborn Poland received 29% of the disputed area from 46% residents. In this area there was a large part of the Upper Silesian industry, which was of great economic importance for Poland, including 53 of 67 hard coal mines, almost all iron ore mines, half of iron and coke plants, all 18 hut zinc, lead and silver. The integration into Poland was preceded by the Polish-German competition, which lasted several years, taking place in various fields: military, diplomatic and propaganda. Military activity consisted of three uprisings: August 1919 and 1920 and May to July 1921. The fight against weapons in hand, especially during the Third Silesian Uprising, indicating the determination of the Polish-minded inhabitants, was an important part of the process of forming the south-western borders of the Second Republic. The diplomatic and propaganda activity, due to the plebiscite of Upper Silesian plebiscite planned under the Treaty of Versailles on March 20, 1921, forced the plebiscite campaign to take place during the period preceding it and the negotiations between March and October, 1921 under which final border decisions were prepared. On 12 October 1921, the League of Nations Council adopted a final decision on the division of Upper Silesia, confirmed by the Council of Ambassadors on 20 October 1921. The next few months were bordering. The formal approval of the division of the region took place on 18 June 1922, opening the possibility for both countries to take possession of the parts granted to them. The Śląskie voivodeship, formally established by the Acting Sejm adopted on July 15, 1922, was established from the territory incorporated into Poland by a decision and already belonging to the second part of the Republic of Poland of Silesia Cieszyński. The welcoming ceremony of the Polish Army took place on 20 June 1922. Polish troops under the command of General Stanisław Szeptycki welcomed crowds of people, among them the Silesian Voivode Józef Rymer and dictator of the Third Silesian Uprising Wojciech Korfanty. Poland's regaining independence, commonly associated with the date of 11 November 1918, is a complex process and extended over time. Several years of struggle for the disputed region, in which Poland was reborn and defeated in the First World War, Germany ended with the signing of 16 July 1922 in Katowice of the Act of taking over part of Upper Silesia by Poland. The Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses respect and appreciation for all those who contributed to the accession of the Upper Silesia by the reborn Polish state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. Currently, senators may submit no more than one minute of the request to the authorised representative of applicants. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. Senator Marek Plura wishes to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u4	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are currently considering the content of the resolution commemorating the century of the incarnation of Upper Silesia to Poland. I am the grandson of the insurgent of Silesian Konrad Plura, who in the 3rd Uprising fought for autonomous Upper Silesia like most of those Silesians who chose the option of Poland. The Legislative Sejm of the Republic of Poland in 1920 established the Organical Statute of the Silesian Voivodeship, i.e. the so-called. Silesian autonomy. This document can undoubtedly be regarded as one of the outstanding achievements of Polish parliamentarianism, in my opinion it is equal to the act of the Lublin Union. After all, the idea of Silesian autonomy was much deeper than ad hoc, today we would say a marketing idea of politicians building new Poland on the ruins of past powers. This idea fits into the best traditions of multicultural Poland, as we know from Jagiellonian times, one which he gave to Poles as an example of Saint John Paul II. The Autonomy of Upper Silesia guaranteeing respect for the distinctness of language, tradition, culture and memories, which are still the foundation of Silesian identity, gave the basis for a compact but multilingual society of this land. The inhabitants of this region in the Middle Ages were subjects of the Silesian Piasts, whose coronation had long been connected by the Silesians with the Czech Crown than with Poland. In the following centuries, for nearly 200 years, the majority of Silesia, including Upper Silesia, was part of Prussia, then Germany, and the smaller part was part of the Austrian Empire, then Austro-Hungarian. The area of Upper Silesia today lies in the Czech Republic and the Republic of Poland. Silesians were never under partitions understood as the result of partitions of Poland. Their history, my history focused on other events than the history of the inhabitants of the Republic of both Nations. Silesian culture assimilated many more German and Czech elements than in Poland. In Upper Silesia, two- or even trilingualism was a rule. The school taught German and Polish languages, while the house was spoken in Silesia, Polish, German, Czech and in other languages. The Holy Jadwiga of Silesia, the Bavarian princess, the wife of Piast of Silesian Prince Henry and Brodaty, today the patron saint of Europe, speaking of course in one of German languages, can be regarded as the spiritual mother of this harmonious polyculture. This is how the German-Slavic Silesian community, to which I belong, was formed. Today, as a citizen of the Republic of Poland, I am proud to mention Angelus Silesius, an outstanding Renaissance philosopher, doctor and scholar from Silesia, who, speaking of himself, emphasized: Silesius non Polonus. From the earliest times the Silesians had a strong sense of self, separate identity and a sense of community based on the Silesian ethnolect. This is still the case today, regardless of what state administers their fatherhood. The attachment to the region and care for common, neighborly good also have been characteristic of Silesians since the dawn. Silesian self-government was formed on this foundation. In the Middle Ages her example was the Silesian State Seym, while during the reign of the Austrian Crown, Cieszyński gained wide autonomy. Since the Spring of the Peoples, the Silesian national movement began, which after World War I resulted in the creation of an independent Upper Silesian Republic or an independent territory such as Freie Stadt Danzig, the Free City of Gdańsk. Although the Silesian organizations had hundreds of thousands of members at the time, their plan did not come true because it was blocked by the pro-German activities of the United Kingdom and by the pro-Polish activities of France. The vision of its own piece of land near the Polish state was an attractive incentive for many Upper Silesians, although it should be admitted that most of them in the plebiscite conducted in 1921 voted for belonging to Germany. Although the Polish plebiscite lost, the Polish insurgent forces supported by numerous volunteers from Poland and French peacekeepers led to the integration into the borders of the Republic of Poland of many rural, urban and 9 cities. In this way the ancient, homogeneous Silesia died. For Silesian families, this terrible time of fraternal struggle was a real civil war. Never before, and thank God, Silesian never later fought Silesian for Silesia. It should be emphasized here that cruel to Silesia, because destroying its cohesion, the time of the Silesian uprising was a time of fighting patriots. German patriots, volunteers from all over the Weimar Republic, fought to preserve the integrity of their country in harmony with the results of the plebiscite in Upper Silesia. Polish patriots from Wielkopolska, Małopolska, Galicia, as well as from the areas of the former Russian occupation, fought to include the region's reborn homeland, which could become and became the driving force of the Polish economy at that time. Among them there was also e.g. Jan Kiepura from Zagłębie Dąbrowskiego. Those Upper Silesians who fought for Silesia near Poland did not fight for the restoration of their freedom, because they were never under partitions. They did not lose Poland, but chose it. They fought for the future. It is better in Poland than in the lost Germans. They also fought for respect and support from the Polish state for their Silesian identity, which they have not yet fully experienced. Finally, there were those for whom the only natural option was free multicultural Silesia. They didn't take part in this fight. And maybe that's why they lost this fight. The real connection of Upper Silesia to Poland took place in June and July 1922. The Śląskie voivodship began to function. Its organic statute remains the current model of mature, responsible self-government and a reason for progress in the decentralisation of the state and empowerment of citizens. I will therefore remind you that autonomy had its own parliament, the Silesian Sejm, which was the legislative authority of the region, while the executive power was the Silesian Voivodeship Council. The achievements and traditions of the Silesian and Silesian identity autonomy are still alive among the indigenous inhabitants of Upper Silesia, even though for 40 years of the People's Poland they were demolished and even exterminated. It is with great pain to admit that in contemporary Poland we are also dealing with manifestations of this type of anti-Silesian propaganda and manipulation, I will mention even a well-known statement about the German cloaked option in Silesia. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u5	Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you kindly.]] Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is an important moment in which we pay homage to those of our ancestors who contributed to the rise of Silesia with the Commonwealth. And I think it's worth emphasising the state sense and the contemporary sense of those decisions. The Senate repeatedly expressed respect for cultural diversity not only Silesia, but also many other regions of Poland, such as Kaszub. We remember the exhibition dedicated to Silesian parliamentarians. Sometimes, thanks to the Silesian senators, we have witnessed that we are showing special respect for Silesian culture. But it must be made clear that we have reason to state clearly that this definitive relationship between Silesia and Poland is happiness for Poland and happiness for Europe, a definitive relationship which was introduced or established by the insurgent effort, but also after the Second World War. We can be happy that it is a clear union, and that the German march east was stopped. This is simply a good solution for Poland, a good solution for Europe and a very good solution for the contemporary Republic. Today, when one of the elements of Putin's policy is to violate the cohesion of states, to finance the separatist movement in Catalonia, to seek an opportunity to violate the cohesion of every European country, we can say clearly: the Republic is happy because it is a unitary state. The Republic will not be an autonomous republic, it will not be a regional state, it will not be a federal state. It will be an integrated country, it will be a single state, a state that respects local law, which respects cultural diversity, but it will be a single state. We owe it to the citizens, we owe it to the future, we owe it to the generations who will come for us. Today you can see more than ever that the choice of unitary form is beneficial for the Polish state. And I would like it to sound very strongly, because it is a matter of our responsibility for an absolutely elementary thing. What else is respect for cultural diversity, respect for all social groups. But we have the right to pride and we have the right to say clearly: it is in the interest of the Republic of Poland to maintain the unitary character of the state. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u7	Thank you, Senator. [[Talking in the O.R.]] For the record, the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, I also inform you that Senator Aleksander Szwed made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on the 100th anniversary of Poland's accession to Upper Silesia. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? I'm gonna need the results. 79 senators voted, 79. [[Voting No 1]] [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on the 100th anniversary of Poland's accession to Upper Silesia. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We proceed with the review of the second agenda item: the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Environment and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 743, and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 743 A and 743 B. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Environment Committee, Senator Rafał Silesian, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I took part in the presentation of a report by the Environment Committee on the Act amending the Act This regulation concerns all issues relating to the protection of air cleanliness. Following the expiry of the provisions implementing the European Parliament's directives on the establishment of maximum limits for State budget expenditure, it was necessary to save limits for the next period and this financial function is a fundamental objective of the revision. The question of determining air quality measurement zones has been further regulated, as the link to the data of the CSO has proved problematic. In response to the demands of the voivodship authorities, which are responsible for reporting, the funding of posts for officials conducting this reporting has been taken over, as well as the deadlines for producing documents for the voivodship and for municipalities and powiats. The sanction associated with this obligation has also been extended to sub-governments. The beneficiaries of this amendment are the citizens who will be provided with undistorted and competent air quality information, as well as the European Commission, who will receive timely reports. In addition, the amendment introduces the necessary amendments to other laws, resulting in a global improvement of air quality. The Act on the Promotion of Thermomodernisation introduces a technical extension of the financial accounts of the scheme "Stop smog" until 2028, as the programme is scheduled until 2024 and the duration of the contract may be 3 and 4 years. The Fuel Quality Control Act extends the assessment period for fuel quality testing from two to four years, which responds to current market developments. The Emissions Trading Act introduces a timely provision on the recognition of biofuels as a carbon-free source of energy. The Environment Committee discussed the Act on 28 June. The Legislative Office has raised 4 objections to the bill. The first plea is that, in the case of the amendment of the Fuel Quality Review Act and the Emissions Trading Act, the principles of legislation were infringed by introducing a seismic amendment with normative novelty, i.e. going beyond the scope of the Act in question. An amendment was drawn up deleting these provisions, which had already been adopted by the Sejm. 2 further reservations concerned a late revision of the expenditure limit, which, according to the legislators, causes legal solutions which have a time limit to be exterminated from the legal order, and therefore an amendment was formulated to speed up the entry into force of the law. The Legislative Office also suggested an editorial amendment in the Annex. The self-government representative made a reservation regarding the responsibilities of local authorities, whose execution is enforced by sanctions. The Commission listened to the Government's opinion on the proposed amendments. The introduction of amendments at the Seym stage was due to the European Commission's timetable, which only in March issued the Regulations retroactively from January. As regards the comments on the late amendment on the limits, it was argued that although the amounts set out in the amended act are no longer valid, the tasks remain valid. The government accepted the editorial amendment. The comment submitted by the representative of the local government was not taken in the form of an amendment by any of the senators. The Commission accepted the proposed editorial amendment of the Legislative Office and rejected the others. The Commission has adopted a law with an editorial amendment and therefore recommends that the High Senate adopt a law with this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u9	Thank you, Senator. I now ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u10	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! After this brief but very detailed presentation of what was happening in the Environment Committee, I can only add that the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs, dealing with the same issue, has highlighted a number of issues, the same issues as those highlighted by the Environment Commission. Without entering the merit Because I would repeat what Senator Silencer said, I just want to say that the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, based on the opinion of the Legislative Bureau and the conclusions of the discussion with the Senators, has introduced the 3rd amendment into the bill. The first shall delete Article. Article 2 and Article 2 6, the second changes the deadline for implementing the law It will not be 31 December 2023, but 1 January 2024. The third relates to the Annex, the third column, in the table where the zones are referred to. This change is the fact that the Opolskie zone has been distinguished, the word "Polish" has been removed. The Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs is asking the High Sejm to adopt a bill... excuse me, the Senate for adopting a law with three amendments, which I mentioned here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u11	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Senator Jackowski reporting. Which rapporteur?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u12	Both senators of the rapporteurs. This is an explanation of this mechanism for cities that have lost the status of the city over 100,000 inhabitants. I don't know if the senator or the senator... [[Good. Then we'll ask Senator Locksmith.]] ...explains this mechanism... What's he gonna depend on right now? Cities like this. Kalisz, which had 100,000 inhabitants, right now, due to demographic processes, doesn't have that number... How will this work under the rule of this law? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u13	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u14	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Senator, The previous regulation, as I said, was linked to the data of the CSO. Air quality measurement zones were created in cities with more than 100,000 inhabitants. This amendment sort of solves this connection, but maintains it in these cities. In Kalisz and Legnica, because these are the 2 cases of measurement zones. In short, nothing changes despite the fact that the population in these cities has fallen. Measurements in these zones will therefore be carried out on the basis of existing rules.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u15	Thank you. Is there anything the senator wants to add? [[I don't have a card. I'll answer without...]] Right here, to the desk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u16	There will still be 46 measurement zones, although the number of inhabitants in cities may vary slightly from the required ones. So that nothing changes here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u17	Thank you. Are there any other questions? There isn't. Thank you, Madame and the Senators of the rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government, the Ministry?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u18	The rapporteur has made a comprehensive presentation of the bill and therefore I have nothing to add. Thank you very much... I'm only asking for the bill to be adopted in accordance with the government's proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u19	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. There are no such questions for the Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u20	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to say that this is a law that should generally not arouse any extraordinary emotions, apart from just one thing: such a failure to draw up this law within the framework of legislation, more, the violation of the Constitution... [[There's that constitution again.]] There's that constitution again. I know, in PiS it's that constitution again. [[Voice from the room: Allergic...]] [[They're getting pissed off...]] Somehow, this constitution really stings and you break it even when it comes to a bill that goes to the Senate. Because in what part of the constitution was broken? The principles of legislation have long been defined, not only by the Constitution, but also by the judgments of the Constitutional Tribunal. The Constitutional Tribunal makes it quite clear that the legislative process in the Sejm must include 3 readings, and any amendment which concerns the law, if it does not include 3 readings, is simply unconstitutional. That's already in our sentence. During the work in the Sejm, during the second reading, amendments were tabled, which went beyond the matter of the law and resulted from the... The government says... Mr. Marshal, would you please calm Senator Karczewski down? 'Cause somebody got nervous. [[Okay, but...]] [[I'm very calm.]] [[Okay...]] [[He's extremely calm.]] The government said... [[Mr. Senator, don't bother me, and don't argue...]] [[Of course. This is your marshal's case, not the senator's.]] [[And I'll keep an eye on Senator Karczewski. Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. That's why I turned to your marshal. Thank you so much for putting things in order in the O.R. The government says that it had to agree to the amendments tabled during parliamentary work, because they result from the implementation of EU law. Great. I have known these regulations and work on these changes for at least a year, and they last more than 1.5 years, which means that the government either does not know the situation and has not worked with the European Commission, the European Parliament and knows nothing It's reprehensible, it's a disaster, it's wrong, it's unacceptable, or it's ignored the whole process that took place there, and then on his knees, he tried to make amends, breaking the constitution. Unacceptable situation. As a result, it was accepted... In addition, the Legal Office of the Senate has pointed out that this is unconstitutional, and we have therefore adopted the appropriate amendments within the Emergency Committee. The Senate is among others. to keep an eye on the constitutional actions. I know that some senators in Poland do not respect the constitution very much, but it is difficult. At least I'll appeal to her while I have the opportunity. And the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs confirmed this view in its entirety. That's one thing. Secondly, it is worth saying, wake up in this government because you have written down changes to a law that is not there. Well, you've accepted Moreover, there is such information in the explanatory memorandum prepared by the Legislative Office of the amendment to the article. 4 of the Act of 13 April 2012 and this Act as if it had ended its life on 31 December 2021. We're in 2002. How can you change... [[The following ……]] In 2022, okay. How can you change the law that ended its life last year? There you go, you shouldn't have changed that bill, you should have written a new recipe. You didn't do it. You can't even do that. Such a typical PiS mess, a quality that every step of the way... Whatever you do, even if it's too simple, you can ruin it, and I'm not gonna use worse words anymore. In the same way, it can still be fixed here, with regard to the article. 5. That's where you wrote down that the bill comes in on the day... She ends her life at the end of December 2023. You write down: the Government Act and its resolutions shall enter into force on 1 January 2024. All you had to do was write it down on 31 December 2023, and you would be in line with the law, and you would refer to the rules that still work. The record you're putting in shows that even in this case, you can't do things right. Wake up in this government. Don't sleep. I know cars, leathers, chambers work well, but it's really worth remembering the law. The Commission also proposes in this part an amendment that puts this situation in order. And I'm a little surprised that the Minister doesn't accept these amendments. Minister, I have no questions for you and I do not expect anything from you, to be honest, because I have stopped expecting anything from the ministers of this government. You've really been proving for a long time that every time it comes down to what, when you have to deal with substantive matters, it's the lack of knowledge, the lack of competence that governs you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u21	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u22	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The changes introduced in the Environmental Act will allow to check the air quality in the existing 46 zones, i.e. 12 agglomerations with a population of more than 250 thousand, 18 cities, here a question mark whether in fact 18 cities with a population of more than 100 thousand and 16 other voivodships. This law will also allow citizens to have access to current information on air quality and timely, hopefully, implementation of the actions set out in the air protection programmes. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, we are actually amending the previous law, the adoption of which was due to the need to implement the judgment of the TSUE obliging Poland to make these entries in air protection programmes, which will contain a list of actions to improve its quality. Formally, this obligation was imposed on local governments of voivodships, without giving them effective tools to enforce reporting and enforcement obligations. However, the current amendments on the issue of financing regulation and enforcement do not add much to the substance of the actual improvement of air quality. And let us remember that in this respect things are getting worse. 50,000 people die every year in our country, and 3 million farms are waiting for the furnace to be replaced. However, these changes are needed, although they probably will not live for long, all the more so as we are about to see the introduction of the next directive that the European Union institutions and the governments of the Member States are currently preparing. She's gonna deal with industrial emissions. And I'm gonna admit that we're on the foreign affairs committee with the climate ministry today. I would like to stress that this is in Poland, but probably in many other countries, perhaps even in countries all over the world, the most important ministry that will provide us and future generations with the opportunity to live on the planet. This ministry does not agree with the provisions of the directive, the proposals for a directive, which has more effective mechanisms to protect us from such huge air emissions. I must tell you that this directive concerns only 50,000 large operators, energy-related entities, chemicals, heavy industry, waste, also agricultural-related entities, very large farms with about 40,000 jobs. In Poland, it is only 4 000 entities. And our government does not want to accept this directive, which, on the one hand, allows EU money to be used... The idea is for these companies, these huge companies, to be able to lead to a situation where this emissions will be much less. And let me remind you that these are the companies In Europe there are 52 thousand such entities, in Poland there are 4 000 of them responsible for 20% of air emissions and 40% of air emissions. greenhouse gas emissions. Health and environmental costs cost EUR 500 billion per year. It is a huge cost, and it is very difficult for us to make any changes in order to improve those provisions that we have to implement correctly. To me, it's this. It's just a scandal. But let's get back to the current bill. In my opinion, it's a lie. The bill, as Senator Gawłowski just said, ended last year. It's one thing. The second issue is the data of the Central Statistical Office. According to the 2020 CSO in 2 cities, in Legnica and Kalisz, the population fell below 100,000 inhabitants, raising concerns that the whole system would have to be rebuilt. It was therefore considered that these cities are still more than 100,000 inhabitants. I repeat, this bill is a lie. How else do we refer to the fact that a city of less than 100,000 inhabitants remains a city of more than 100,000 inhabitants? It's just that nothing's changed. Why does the government care for better air not refer to the crazy cost? Many citizens will not be able to afford to burn houses with gas or coal. They will then reach not only for chrust, but also for garbage and harmful plastic waste. Is the government thinking about it? Does he care? What about funding for gas furnaces? What about investments in photovoltaics? The law is supposed to implement EU directives, and we all know that it serves to repair the continuing legislative sloppyness. Besides, what kind of repair is it when the articles are unconstitutional, because they improve laws that have already expired? Unconstitutional penalties are also imposed because they concern the consequences of local law. It therefore appears that the main objective of the revision is the issue of emissions trading. With retroactive effect, as of 1 January 2022, we are to assume that the burnt biomass of it is no longer there, and no one will investigate it, it was a renewable source of energy. Despite the fact that the fuel quality will now be tested not every 2 years, but during a 4-year period, the PiS is very determined that this entry is included in the bill. So, as usual, we are dealing with unclean intentions and pseudo-material mess. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u23	Thank you, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, I'm asking you...]] Good. Senator Piech. Please take the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u24	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll just take a minute. Well, Mrs. Danuta Jazłowiecka spilled a bucket here. Slope into a government that I support, too. I will only quote the operative part of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union of 22 February 2018. The Court of Justice of the European Union states that the Republic of Poland exceeded from 2007 to 2015 the daily limit values for PM10 concentrations in 35 air quality assessment and management zones and the annual limit values for the concentration of this dust in 9 air quality assessment and management zones without taking appropriate action in air protection programmes to ensure that the duration of exceedances in air limit values is as short as possible. It's just a short notice from that sentence. And you're telling us that we're not doing anything to protect the air in Poland. We have a program that is being implemented. We've already spent about 8 billion PLN on improving air quality and this air is improving in Poland, ma'am. And you can see that. I'm an example of that, too. I replaced the heat source and got funding for the thermomodernization. Thermomodernization is the key to improving air quality in Poland. And such comments about the fact that we're not doing anything are inappropriate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u25	Thank you, Senator. [[May I, Mr. Marshal?]] You're welcome, but you're welcome to the podium. Speaker's room, Senator. You want to perform, don't you? [[No. I only want to react from the point of view because my name has been used and the contested words I said...]] It's in the form of correction. Here you go, three minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u26	Yeah, in the form of a corrigendum. Mr. Senator, I'll admit it's hard for me to comment... Fortunately, our country, our citizens see how much you do, and they see how much you cheat us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u27	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I'm informing you... [[Senator Secretary Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska: It was for protocol...]] Oh, for the record... I'll tell you what. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. For the record, it's traditional. Senator Aleksander Szwed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. We proceed with the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the Law on special arrangements for the protection of customers of certain solid fuels in view of the situation on the market for these fuels. The text of the Act is contained in print No 749 and the report of the Commission In print No 749 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Dear guests! Report from the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on Specific Solutions for the Protection of the Consumers of Certain Solid Fuels adopted by the Sejm on 23 June, in view of the situation on the market for these fuels. Legislative proposals were tabled during the discussion. In the vote on the proposal to adopt the law without amendment, the decision was as follows: 5 votes in favour, 4 against. This is why no longer the amendments to this law have been voted on. Reason. Since the beginning of 2021, the economic recovery of the economies of the world has been ongoing following successive waves of the COVID-19 pandemic. I would just like to remind you that in 2021, in June, the price of coal in ARA ports was $75 per tonne, and if we reach today's quotations, we will notice that this price is already over $375. Over the year, the rise in coal prices, gas prices, oil prices is definitely very high, very high, even 5, 6, 10 times. The return of economies in many countries to the path of development will translate into an increase in demand for all these fuels, including coal. Europe brought about 52 million tons of coal from Russia. It now needs to be replaced by supplies from other sources, but switching to other directions is cost-effective. At the same time, sanctions were imposed as a result of Russia's invasion of Ukraine. The government of the Republic of Poland has decided to cease imports of fuels from Russia, including coal. It has been in force since May, and this coal supply chain has been interrupted from the Russian direction. Eight million tonnes of coal were delivered annually from this direction. This coal, which came from the Russian direction, was energy coal and was, so to speak, dedicated to individual customers, especially in northern Poland. That's why this demand hole that's formed isn't gonna be easy to bury. Individual customers need about 8 million tons of coal to meet their needs. The data we have from the Central Registration of Buildings in Poland of 7 June 2020 shows that there are about 1 million 784 thousand coal and carbon fuel boilers. This record is not yet closed, but on June 30th or July 1st we will know the exact data. But they're kept up to date in the compilations, you can find these data on the Internet. It is assumed that the household is a holding where the main source of heating is the following heat sources: solid fuel boiler, fireplace, goat, heater, etc., reported in the records referred to in the Act of 21 November on the promotion of thermomodernization and renovation and on the central registration of buildings. The legislator proposes to protect customers on these farms from a steep rise in the price of solid fuels to introduce a compensation mechanism for operators who place on the market in 2022 the following solid fuels: coal, briquette or pellets containing at least 85% hard coal. The condition for granting compensation is registration in the territory of the Polish People's Republic of... oj, the Republic of Poland of its company and the sale of fuels to customers at a price of not more than PLN 996 gross 60 gr per tonne, in order to be used by households for their own use, this is also underlined. The sale of solid fuel at a price higher than that amount does not give rise to compensation. The Act provides that compensation shall be granted to an economic operator engaged in the marketing of fuels entered in the Central Register of Excise Entities referred to in Article. 2 of the Act of 6 December 2008 on excise duty, hereinafter referred to as the trader who sold solid fuel to households operating on the territory of the Republic of Poland, at a price not higher than PLN 996 60 gr per tonne for the purposes of their own use. The Act provides that the maximum amount of coal for which the trader selling the above solid fuel can obtain compensation shall be 3 t for 1 household. According to the proposed law, the maximum compensation for the sale of 1 t of solid fuel sold for 1 household cannot be more than 750 PLN gross. This amount reflects the cost of importing coal to Poland on the assumptions made. The entity responsible for payment of compensation will be the Settlement Manager SA, called the Settlement Manager. He will be responsible for handling the electronic portal made available on the website to which he will be administrator. If the trader wishes to benefit from the possibility of receiving compensation, prior registration on this portal will be necessary. The trader will be obliged to enter into on the above-mentioned portal sales transactions made from the date of entry into force of this Act until the date on which the portal in question was made available not exceeding 30 September 2022. For sales transactions made after the portal is made available, after registration by the trader, each of the sales transactions made must be entered in the portal at the latest on the following working day after the date of the sale transaction. Responsibilities of the fuel buyer. The provisions introduced by the law will allow household members to purchase solid fuels at a price of not more than PLN 996 gross 60 gr. A household member wishing to purchase solid fuel at this price, within that holding, shall be required to forward to the trader a statement in paper form bearing his signature, electronic signature, trusted signature or personal signature, the quantity of that fuel which he purchased after the date of entry into force of this Act for use for his own use, as well as the following documents: a declaration of heat source or a copy of a declaration of heat source, another document issued by the competent authority, owner or landlord... And that's all, actually. The Act enters into force 14 days after publication in the Official Journal. The law is not contrary to European law. It shall also not be subject to notification of acts laid down in the provisions of the Council of Ministers Regulation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u29	Thank you, Senator. I will now ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka, to present a proposal of the minority of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u30	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We have proposed amendments on legislative correctness. These recommended changes aim to be deleted from the article. 2 (2) 1th opinion of the bill... The first sentence of the first sentence states that the operator of the placing on the market of fuel, entered in the Central Register of Excise Entities, who sold certain solid fuels to households operating on the territory of the Republic of Poland at a price not higher than PLN 996 gross per 1t for the purpose of own use of these households, is entitled to compensation. The second sentence is: sale of solid fuel at a price higher than PLN 996 gross 60 gr does not give entitlement to compensation. It is normatively unnecessary, and also non-precisely and does not refer to the given amount of fuel. Second amendment. This is to clarify the duties of the Head of National Tax Administration, which both in the light of Article. 3 (1) (a) 1 of the Act in question, as well as the requirement for precision of regulation, should refer to the transmission of data relating to entrepreneurs referred to in Article. 2 (2) 1 to the extent specified in Article. 3 (1) (a) 1. The third amendment is the deletion of the provision repeating the Article. 10a Act of 28 December 2018 amending the Excise Tax Act and certain other laws. The fourth is to align the contents of the first sentence of Annex 1 with the provisions of Article. 1 paragraph 2, Article 2 (2) 5 and Article 5 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. Article 5 (1) (b) and (c) of These are primarily legislative amendments. We call for these amendments to be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u31	Thank you, Senator rapporteur. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. I'd like to ask Senator Piecha... [[Yes?]] ...to explain why this price of PLN 996 60 for 1 t... [[Voice from the room: Do.]] To, of course, to 996 PLN and 60 gr for 1 tonne of coal. Why is this price guaranteed? Of course, it should be assumed that this will probably be the maximum price... [[Yeah, yeah, it's included in the bill.]] If it's a "do," then it's known to be a price. Tell me if it's related... What's it related to? Is that the cost of mining? Is it just a media treatment used in supermarkets, where the price always ends with 99? So tell me why this price is 996 PLN 60 gr.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u32	Yes, of course, Mr. Marshal. Of course, I'm not gonna answer that question precisely because I didn't set that price. It was decided by the Ministry. This is due to the fact that hard coal mines operating in Poland do not sell above this price. Well, maybe there's some kind of crazy, but it's small. At this price, coal is sold more or less to individual customers. And this price is still going on, because the cost of mining didn't increase dramatically.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u33	I understand that's the average price. I will, of course, ask the Minister. [[Then you have to ask him.]] Now you're asking Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u34	Thank you very much. I'd like to ask you about this charge up to 3 t. As far as I'm concerned, burning is often greater than 3 tons in cabins. Was the matter discussed at the committee's meeting that it is unified whether you have an apartment or a house? Why so many tons? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u35	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u36	Thank you for asking that question. I don't think we raised such a problem at the committee meeting, but I think heating a family house and heating an apartment are two different things. It depends on the meter. Heating 3 tons of coal for a single-family cottage is a task almost impossible, unless you have a warm house that doesn't need so much heat, but in the case of apartments, the 3 t will be enough to survive the winter in comfort. Thank you. [[Can I make it up?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u37	Yes, of course, your rapporteur can supplement it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u38	Senator, that's a very good question. We also had doubts, we wondered how it was possible that the Ministry had determined that in the case of heating houses there would be enough 3 t and in the case of heating apartments in the cooperative there would also be a need 3 t. We are a little afraid that such a situation, such a balancing of this can cause some embezzlement, and we would like to avoid such a situation. So that is a good question and I think it is worth asking the Minister too. Perhaps today he has prepared a good answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u39	Thank you very much. Mr. Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u40	Thank you very much. I have a question for Senator Piecha. I'm being approached by people who sunbathe their place of residence with a petet. As you know, his price has changed dramatically. These people were even encouraged to override their furnaces or their way of heating their homes, and in this regard they had some investment expenditures. Will they be covered by this regulation or will they not be covered? From what I hear, it appears that these people are very dissatisfied, they feel somehow brought into the field because this regulation does not apply to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u41	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u42	In answer to this question, I will say that the bill clearly states what fuel will be subsidised. The provisions of the Act apply to the following solid fuels: coal, briquette or pellets containing at least 85% hard coal. We're not talking about wood here. The price of firewood will certainly also increase, because it will be fuel, which will also be used. [[I meant...]] It's about the pellets. I know what kind of pelet is made of wood. But unfortunately... [[A voice from the hall: Or from the breeze.]] Not really. We're not gonna make a chrysalis. [[So, as I understand it, this kind of petal isn't gonna be covered? It means that those who sunbathe like this...]] There's no record in the bill that it's covered by it. [[Was there any discussion at the committee meeting? Has anyone asked questions?]] No, that wasn't the discussion, that wasn't the question. I'm sure the Ministry will be able to answer that question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u43	So it's not covered. [[Voice from the room: Yet...]] Mr. Senator, I signed you up again. Senator Jacek Bury now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u44	I'd like to ask you about the sources of funding for this bill. Three billion zlotys are foreseen for these grants. Where's the money coming from? Was there, or will there be, a revised budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u45	Wait a minute, we're gonna have to say something about funding, too. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm sure it'll be covered by the state budget, but the exact source of funding would have to be looked for... Oh, the spending limit will be linked to the Price Difference Payment Fund. The maximum total expenditure limit from the Fund for the Payment of Differences is 3 billion, between 2022 and 2031 may not exceed 3 billion, namely Article. 19. In 2022, this is going to be 1.5 billion, in 2023 1.5 billion, for 2 years to be written down. [[Thank you...]] And from this fund it should be paid, financed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u46	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u47	Thank you very much. I have a question about those heat consumers who are powered from coal-fired power plants, that is, the collective heating of buildings. What does this law mean for them? Will they be covered by some kind of... heat rates in the power plants also rise sharply with coal prices, so these increases concern them. But will these people benefit from this law, and if so, under what rules? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u48	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u49	Mr. Marshal, Mr. Senator, thank you for that question. Large producers of heat, i.e. heat and power plants, will not be covered by this law because they supply fuel earlier, they conclude contracts for the supply of these fuels, coal from suppliers where they always order, and there negotiate prices. Most heat and power plants have already contracted coal for this heating season.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u50	Thank you, Senator. Now I'd like to ask the questions. Because of the embargo, there will be a shortage of 8 million tons of coal from Russia. So these recipients won't have, and they don't have any long-term contracts anymore. It's about... [[Individual recipients.]] ...the big ones... And in this case, there will be no backup either. So this support only applies to individual recipients, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u51	Individual customers and small businesses, such as bakeries, other entities that order coal or fuel individually. [[What does this mean for small enterprises? I mean...]] Bakeries, craft shops... Does that include? Well, I'm not precise either, because it wasn't written... [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, I'm afraid not.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u52	It doesn't, does it? That's just individual customers. And Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u53	Mr. Senator, but from what I hear, In addition, the Commission considers that the aid is compatible with the internal market and does not constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107 (3) (c) of In some cities, however, it turns out that heat prices on the urban network are forecasting a dramatic increase. Therefore, it is not exactly what you said, that everyone is contracted this coal and is supplied at prices, let's say, more human. So how's it going here... Was there even a discussion on this subject? I do not know the statistics, but it probably concerns hundreds of thousands of apartments in Poland, so that it is not some narrow, small group which will not be absolutely a beneficiary of this law. Therefore, we will have the situation that individuals will benefit, to a certain extent, to these 3 ts, and they will not benefit from the collective. So this bill will deepen some social inequalities. Was there a discussion on this at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u54	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u55	That we didn't discuss it. I may have been a little vague, but most of the power plants have already supplied coal. Maybe somebody didn't get it or if the offer was left unanswered. The government must lean on this, and here the question to the minister, to what extent the work and conversations are being carried out, so that this supply hole can also be filled and the prices of heat are affordable.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u56	Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. [[Voice from the room: No. Senator Bury.]] No? Oh, I'm sorry. Senator Jacek Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u57	I'd like to ask you one more thing... I understand that we have 1.5 billion in 2022, 1.5 billion in 2023, which means this year less farms will get this funding than they do. It's called, half. And will the ones that will be given in the years 2022 to 2023 also be able to apply for funding or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u58	I will ask the Minister for such a precise answer, because I do not know whether this amount of PLN 1.5 billion for 2022 is rigid or whether it can be increased further.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u59	Thank you. Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u60	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I don't know what you were talking about at the committee meeting, but I'm a little lost right now. Tell me who, according to your knowledge and what you discussed at the committee meeting, will receive this support. Will they only be given to individuals? That's the first question. If e.g. There's one boiler room for three buildings or two buildings, so do people get funding or don't they get it? I understand that those who have switched to pellets and other ecological sources are not subject to any help at all, on the basis of: you wanted to, you saw the eyeballs they were taking, now you've seen the finger churn or something else, and it's not subject to assessment. And one last question. Mr. Senator, would you please tell me if you spoke at the committee meeting? If you don't, I'll ask the Minister. On the balance of coal consumption in Poland, how much coal is there and whether it is enough, whether it is not enough, whether we have the sources provided. Did you talk about it? If so, I would ask for information, and if not, I will ask the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u61	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u62	No. This was not the discussion we had with regard to the balance of demand for coal. Such multi-family, multi-premises buildings will receive this support, including cooperatives that have boiler houses. This will be divided into the number of apartments, the number of premises, etc. They're gonna get that backup. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u63	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Janusz Gromek's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u64	Mr. Senator, you speak nicely because you said most of them have secured firewood. The majority, I think, should include the Kolobrzeg. At an old price. This is absolute nonsense and total falsehood, because the last one he had was the one the president was buying. Just a moment ago I spoke to him. He was 313 PLN. Now it is one thousand 920 PLN, one thousand 950 PLN, one thousand 620 PLN. It has its own transport, not PKP, but car transport, i.e. 300 PLN to a ton. And it has 1 thousand 500 zlotys from Australia. So whatever you look at, it's a dozen percent, maybe 150%. goes up the price for people in Kołobrzeg, mostly pensioners who live in blocks who don't have a wealthy wallet. On what grounds do you say that most people have secured firewood? If that's what you say, that most of them, please, on behalf of the president of the MEC of Kołobrzeg... [[Time, Mr. Senator. We have a minute to ask the question.]] Good. ...about where to buy the good one he had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u65	The question is quite extensive. There was no discussion of how some recipients, like cities, like local governments, were to obtain this coal. I said that individual recipients, that individual customers will be supplied with coal and will have subsidies of up to 1 tonnes of coal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u66	Thank you very much. Senator Benjamin Godyla's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u67	Mr. Senator, I have a question about compensation. Will this compensation for coal also cover senior homes, not only senior houses run by local governments, but also senior houses run by business people? Because there's patients, these people have basic needs secured, they live there permanently, just like at home. Or have you considered it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u68	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u69	This was not raised at the committee meeting. We will ask the Minister how we will solve this problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u70	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u71	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll give the senator a break. To the minority's motion representative, I'd like to... [[Thank you very much.]] The minority proposal consists of several points. Point 1: in Article. In paragraph 2, the first paragraph is replaced by the following: 1 the second sentence is deleted. You explained to us that this sentence does not have a normative value, as if it repeats the meaning of the first sentence. Well, that depends on how you interpret it. Is it possible, for example? such interpretation Of course, if you considered it at the committee's meeting That compensation will not be received by the trader who sells not only for a price of up to 996 PLN, up to this threshold, but also above this price? After all, it may be that the trader sells the part at a lower price and the part at a higher price. It's like forcing entrepreneurs to only sell after a lower one. And then the second sentence makes sense. What was the purpose of the legislator, in this case the Sejm, and did you consider it at the committee meeting? Because the deletion of the second sentence would, in a sense, castrate the law in this respect.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u72	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u73	We considered that the second sentence was vague and does not refer to the given amount in terms of a ton of fuel. We thought it was unnecessary. I must say that I do not agree very much with your view that repealing this sentence will force the use of higher prices. [[Thank you.]] [[The other way around.]] Lower, lower prices. [[It won't prevent...]] The prices are lower. [[Exactly. It will not prevent sales at higher prices.]] You can't do that. In fact, we live here and now, we know how prices are at the moment, and we are aware that these prices are not going to fall specifically. This is a bill addressed primarily to importers, not to our mines. This law we want to facilitate access to coal at lower prices, but we are also aware that importers are not able to provide the raw material at the prices at which coal is currently being extracted in Poland. Hence the compensation. I don't take it that way, as you said here, that if we cross out that sentence, then we're gonna force lower prices. If we force lower prices, it's even better. Let the importers make sure that less... [[Again, Senator. I'm sorry, but trying to delete that sentence with a certain interpretation will narrow down the applicability of the law. I'll ask the Minister what was the point of adding a second sentence.]] I think it'll be a better solution, because then we'll know whether to look for some interpretation or just interpret it as it's written. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u74	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand there are no further questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Climate and Environment has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Yes, I want to.]] You're welcome, Undersecretary of State, the country's chief geologist, Mr. Piotr Dziadzio. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u75	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! I'm just a little bit of a follow-up and clarification on some of the issues that have emerged here in the discussion. I would like to speak on this. First of all, what I would like to draw the attention of the honourable states to is that the law is being introduced for this purpose in order to secure the poorest part of our country's citizens into coal fuel, which can be supplied to them, can be bought by them at a rational, valid price of 996 PLN and 60 gr. What's the price? This is the average price from last year according to GUS information. We keep the price that was last year's average price. We want this price to be valid for shopping this year, and to be, let's say, a reasonable price that is within the reach of the poorest citizen. The bill is intended to help, above all, the poorest part of our society, which would have a problem with obtaining coal for an amount of between PLN 2,5 thousand and PLN 3 000. This is the average fuel consumed in the average household. We are not able to say that in the case of people who have a single-family cottage with an area such as this or that, we will differentiate. We are not able to diversify this because every town, every house and every apartment has different energy needs in fact. So we had to average this for such a systemic simplification As far as the amount of the surcharge is concerned, there's been a mistake here. Senator Piecha has slipped his tongue. This amount, which will be a surcharge, is at the level of PLN 1 thousand 73 13, and not PLN 750, is such a correction by the government. What is important and what should be said here, the paying agent will be the clearing manager. And the amount of PLN 3 billion that is foreseen comes from the covid fund, too, because there were questions about it. And this is the amount that we think is able to secure the needs in terms of compensation for entrepreneurs. It has been divided into 2 tranches, the first tranche this year, the second tranche at the beginning of next year, for the purpose of current business accounts. It was about keeping entrepreneurs accountable. The first instalment will be held in October between 15 and 31 October. Second tranche between 1 and 20 January. And this first tranche will show us what costs we will actually have in this programme. That's why, among other things. It's done. Ladies and gentlemen, in replying briefly to the questions that have been raised in the discussion... I wrote them down. As regards the position of minorities, as a government, we absolutely disagree with the proposal of minorities, because these amendments, which are proposed, do not bring anything, and the provisions proposed in the Act are very precise. Just read them very carefully. There was also a question about the pellets and the amounts, possibly why the funding of other sources is not taken into account in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know very well that the price increase of different fuels is at different percentages. Due to the fact that coal was the most expensive Because the increase in coal prices is up to 300%, maybe more And this fuel is the most common fuel, commonly used in our country, this surcharge mainly concerns coal. The increase in Pelet prices varies, but on average our estimates show that about 100%. But, ladies and gentlemen, the prices of other fuels have also increased, the prices of gas and other fuels that are used in households have also increased. We want to help the poorest part of our citizens here. We want the poorest part of our society to be supported during the autumn-winter period, because this is necessary. When it comes to heat plants, of course, the heat plants contract coal before. They're contracts, which means they're contracted. From this balance sheet, which I have at the moment, as of today, it appears that virtually most of the power plants have contracted coal, of course at a different price. But I'm also unable to tell you at what price he was contracted. Electro-energy, which means... Electricity plants, of course, provide heat at a regulated price. There is also an additional ETS system that raises the price of heat. We must be aware here that we are unable to influence the price level which is the level of regulated tariff prices. It is up to the URE and it is the URE that examines and evaluates the situation. What else can I add, ladies and gentlemen, to sum up what I wanted to tell you here and what I said at the outset? I think the bill is necessary to help this poorest part of our society, so as not to cause problems. And so we are proposing to support this very poorest part of our society in the most rational, most simplified, most functional way, we think.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u76	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, the senators have the opportunity to ask the Minister's questions on this item for no more than a minute. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, the first will be Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u77	Minister, I have a question, but I'll ask it at the end, and I'd like to straighten something out first. The poorest part of the Polish society is not heated with coal. It heats up electricity, electricity. The social housing is mainly heated by electricity, such slot machines are there. It's possible it's gas. And this is the poorest part of our society. Let me repeat: I speak in the context of social housing all the time. Do you foresee any support for this really poor part of our society living in social housing heated with electricity, possibly gas boilers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u78	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u79	We make subsidies to the poorest in electricity. At the beginning of the year, such an additional payment was introduced and it is implemented on an ongoing basis. [[Maybe I'll just ask. But you're talking about electricity subsidies for all residents, right?]] For electricity for the poorest part... [[And I'm talking about social housing, housing...]] But they also have the right to this subsidy, to this subsidy. [[Yeah, except for this poorest part of society, this supplement is insignificant, and it doesn't change the situation that electricity is still awfully expensive. Once again, this is the poorest part of our society, not the one that warms up her apartments...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u80	Mr. Senator, now is the time to ask questions. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you. Is it because some of the public may find that they are somehow discriminated against by this law, because some people get some kind of support and others don't get... I wouldn't want to start discussing who's poorer or a rich grower living in the country who's sunbathing a house with coal or a rencissist who has 600 zł of pension and has to pay increased heat bills in a communal apartment, I'm already leaving an assessment of the public. But I would argue with you here. My question is: why doesn't the government present some kind of comprehensive aid package for people due to the shortage of energy raw materials? The point is that these heating systems are powered from different sources, and government policy or previous governments were such that people were encouraged to take advantage of certain solutions which at the moment led them into the trap of expensive raw materials. They separated from one another, they went into another. And there's a sense of harm here. It's not... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u82	Mr. Senator, of course the government is working on it. We are still very serious about how to approach this issue systematically. However, I must say this: no one has predicted the war and the situation that we are dealing with today. This is not the situation we were preparing for from the perspective, let's say, of this conflict, but it surprised us. We have a complete... We are trying to solve the most difficult problems, those that are the most difficult social problems, we are trying to secure access to the fuel that is coal, for the part of society that burns houses with coal, because it has not been on the market so far or there have been problems with the supply of this raw material. Natural gas is and will be on the market, electricity is and will be. Therefore, to protect against speculative business activities and to raise prices to the level of PLN 3 000, PLN 4 000 and perhaps more in the heating season... That's what we're protecting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u83	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Mr. Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u84	Minister, Mr Marshal, I will repeat this question I asked the senator: do you have calculations on the coal balance in Poland? So that's what we get, what we get from the outside, we've already got contracts signed, 12 million for heating, the rest for industry. Do we have a balance sheet like this? [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] Is it? I would very much ask you to answer. And another question. Minister, you said these three billion zlotys would be covid funds. Could you answer the link between the covid fund and the coal surcharge? And one last short question. Minister, technically, please, if you could just say... I'm not on this committee, but I have a question and I'd like to hear an authoritative answer from you so I can repeat it. I'm going to the coal market, I'm buying three tons of coal, I'm paying, I'm going to say three thousand zlotys evenly. And that's my only concern. And there's definitely going to be coal for 1 thousand zlotys that I can buy, right? And one more question: the mine excavates... Who will receive this payment, help? If you could bring that up... the client is one thing, and the state policy on subsidies is the other. As if you could show so little...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u85	Yes, we have done the balance sheet, we are updating it on an ongoing basis 62 million t. This is the demand in general of the entire market in our country. About 43 million t is professional energy. The remainder are heat and heat and individual recipients. And as of today, of the analyses that have been carried out, both from energy and from PSE, from individual heating... We have a balanced demand for coal. So we know what the contracts are, how many millions of tons, by whom they've been made, by whom they've been executed. Today even in this balance sheet we have a plus, 1 million t in stock I'll say it like that. For today, if you balance all sources of coal supplies to our country, except Russian of course. That's the first line. As far as question two is concerned, it's exactly what the senator said about coal purchases. A citizen who has with him a certificate that he is registered in the Central Register of Buildings shall report such a document to the seller, says that he uses coal, has a burning pit, according to the document he brings, is registered and has the opportunity to buy 3 tonnes of coal at the price of PLN 996 60 gr. Excuse me, what was the next question? [[Who gets this payment, or an entrepreneur...]] Entrepreneur, entrepreneur... [[You mean the mines?]] [[Voices from the room: No, no...]] No, not the mines. Whoever's selling coal, an entrepreneur who's registered... [[The one who's already selling?]] Yeah, whoever's selling, the entrepreneur who's registered... Ladies and gentlemen, I say... [[Yeah, whatever. It's registered.]] It's registered, exactly. [[And then there's this issue of carbon subsidies from the covid fund...]] Well, the war made us...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u86	I'm sorry, but I would very much like to ask you to keep an eye on the formula of asking questions and answers so that we do not fall into some chaos in our House. I'm really trying to drive. It's quite liberal, but don't abuse it. Please ask questions and answers, questions and answers, because it makes it easier for all of us... [[Is that for me?]] That's everyone's attention, Mr. Senator. You asked the question. Now is the time to ask Mr. Janusz Gromek. Senator Janusz Gromek. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u87	I have a question for you. I'm getting information from these distributors... And let me say this: I absolutely do not blame the government, I do not blame anybody from Poland here for the fact that there is war or that there was a COVID and the conditions became difficult. But it's becoming a problem for coal distributors who have to prepay and have to take credit for it, and financial returns can only be after 3 months. That's one thing. And the next question, if I can fit in, Mr. Marshal: whether like a Pole he will take on paper and sell, trade with coal, and smoke garbage... These cases may not be ten, not one hundred, but thousands. And the question is: how can we prevent it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u88	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u89	I'll try to answer you briefly. So, yes, the clean air control is being conducted on an ongoing basis. We're going to reinforce this control, which is where we know that non-carbon fuel is used... Well, it's easy to say, actually, so it's definitely gonna be controlled locally. Now yes, of course I understand... Well, the business risk is in different areas, and it doesn't just concern the business risk of entrepreneurs who buy, contract coal, because that risk in business is always there. We understand very well that it is the risks they must bear. However, we have not heard, we do not have such information that entrepreneurs who order this fuel, or coal, have problems with buying, contracting and making a prepayment. We don't have that kind of information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u90	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u91	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I will return to the question I asked earlier, namely to understand the meaning of the article. 2 (2) 1. It's the second sentence, and the minority proposal is trying to suggest that they be deleted. It reads, "The sale of solid fuel at a price higher than PLN 996,60 does not give rise to compensation. Is this about fuel for a given entrepreneur, but other... Otherwise: is it that the same trader will be able to sell other fuels or even the same at a higher price at all, or is it that if he sells at a higher price, he will not be able to benefit from the privileges of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u92	To explain very simply, you have to say this: an entrepreneur can sell fuel at any price if he has a customer who will buy... who will want to buy this coal outside of this surcharge system that we are talking about. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u93	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Benjamin Godyla's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u94	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to repeat this question that I asked the rapporteur about the compensation for the purchase of coal for round-the-clock nursing homes. It is known that such houses are run by local governments and business people. We know that these houses are the basic place when it comes to the functioning of this man, whether he lives in the house or not, he's still there. Will this compensation cover the sector as well?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u95	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u96	This compensation does not cover this. However, there is compensation which has been introduced, as I said, at the beginning of the year, which can also be used by pensioners in social care homes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u97	Thank you very much, Mr... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I'll ask you a question. But the company that runs this senior's house will be buying coal after...]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: If this is a cooperative, yes, but if this is a company, then no.]] [[And the government isn't?]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Neither does the local government.]] [[Well, it's unfavorable very.]] Thank you very much, Senator. [[Voice from the room: This will raise prices...]] You're welcome, Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u98	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It's all about heat plants, communal or urban. I'll give you an example. Yesterday, the mayor of Kościerzyna called and said he had a boiler room like this and bought it last year. That's the kind of contract he had. 300 zł per 1 t. At the moment, prepayments... I mean. There's 1 thousand 700 zlotys for 1 t. And he had this policy because it was mostly about the townhouse downtown to get out of that smog... to get out of those ovens, the coops, to give up. And that's why he talked me into... Well, right now he's saying he doesn't know what to tell these people, because he has to raise the heat prices, and that's times 5, because that's how they go up the price for he had, and yet he has to make prepayments. How can we solve this problem? As I say, large boilers, heat and heat will manage, but small ones, the municipal ones, the municipal ones, the local government ones will have a problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u99	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u100	We have assumed that cooperatives and communities will be co-financed, those where we can clearly determine who is the beneficiary, who receives the coal and for what purpose it is used. Well, here's the district heating bill that doesn't cover. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Doesn't include municipal, yes. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u101	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u102	Minister, I would like to ask you about the entire process of circulation of money resulting from this bill. Why not accept e.g. A solution to be handled by the Material Reserve Agency, only planned in such a distraction? This may raise doubts about the transparency of the money circulation and all that will be associated with this form of support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u103	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, RARS is an agency that collects material reserves, not distribution of material and individual reserves. It would have to be converted into an institution that would sell and then settle such transactions. So the easiest way to do it is to do it in a way that it's an entrepreneur... This is a registered activity and reporting takes place on an ongoing basis. It's not like you can get past it. If something isn't reported in due course, it'll just fall out. It will also be in the interest of the entrepreneur to report and document the transactions that have been concluded on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u104	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jack Bury's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u105	Minister, looking at the amounts that are earmarked for the financing of these activities I am talking about 3 billion and on the amount of coal used by individual farms, I draw a clear conclusion that this funding is about 300 PLN per tonne. Not everyone gets it if it's $1,000 73. The question is this. Will those who are the first to be the quicker get funding, or will there be any other rules for allocating this funding? Less than 30%, I understand. households will be able to benefit from funding. How will these chosen ones be rewarded?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u106	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u107	I'm supposed to answer as I understand it. Yes? [[Yes.]] Mr. Marshal... [[How's that gonna work? Who's faster, the better? Will there be any other rules?]] Of course, it should be so organized that all who are in need and buy coal should have the right to buy coal at this price. And that's why there's a division here in relation to the first term. The point is to see how much that 1.5 million will satisfy us. If we see that this is a question that needs to be verified... We'll know that at the beginning of the heating period.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u108	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u109	I'd like to ask you one more question. So I understand that there's more free money in the covid fund because we're going to be able to increase that amount. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u110	I'm not confirming or denying right now. We need to think, we need to see how much money will be used in the first hand and I'm talking so colloquially. What part of society will be satisfied.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u111	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question of a different nature. It's in the article. 1 paragraph 2 are given certain dates when the fuel was imported or extracted, produced. Will the entrepreneur have to propose in any way in relation to these dates? Is this gonna be checked out somehow? I'm asking because at least I haven't found it in the bill yet. Solid fuel extracted or imported on these border dates is to be subject to the legislation. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Yes. It's about...]] The second question, the second question, another nature, but also related to dates. In order to benefit from the benefits of the bill, the building must be entered in the register, in the building issue register. This is supposed to be June 30th, which is tomorrow. I suspect that some people will find out that entry in such records is necessary, when they want to reach for subsidies, and that will be after ... He may not reach for the surcharge, but he may pay less for the coal. He'll come to the entrepreneur... the entrepreneur knows it, but the person... [[Mr. Senator, one minute.]] ...who owns a single-family building may be late. Does the State provide for an extension of this deadline for entry in the register of issue, precisely in connection with this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u113	The first point is that the need for an alert has been communicated to the public on an ongoing basis for six months. They appeared regularly on all the portals, on TV, on the radio, etc., so I have a feeling I'm pretty sure of it. The majority of the population knows that they should sign up for the Central Register of Buildings by the end of this month. Well, that's the kind of awareness that citizens have. That's one thing. As a result, we don't anticipate... There was promotion, there was advertising, there was information that was kept up-to-date, addressed to society, and so all socially responsible people should be familiar with it, they should do so. I know that even people who live abroad Because such an area is also designated They also provide this information to the database. That's the answer to the first question. Well, of course the dates will be verified. The point here is to have this coal that... so that the place of delivery can be determined. The only exemption or restriction here is the total ban on imports of coal from Russia.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u114	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u115	Thank you very much. Minister, I have a question about the procedure for working on this law, because in the opinion of senate legislators it is alleged that I am based here on information on page 2 of this Act was not the subject of public consultation, it was not assessed. In the meantime, the subject matter affects both economic operators engaged in the marketing of certain solid fuels and households for which they are the main source of heating, which, according to the author of this opinion, implies the obligation to present at the stage of the government legislative process a draft opinion on workers' and employers' side in the Council of Social Dialogue. Would you mind commenting here on this serious charge as to the mere proceeding over this bill? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u116	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u117	I disagree, Senator, because the legislative process was very dynamic. We needed this dynamic because of the situation we were in. The full consultation process would take several months, so we would wake up, to be honest, with our hand in the potty. I'm sorry about that word, but that's probably the most appropriate term right now. The speed is very important in the process of this type of recording. That's one thing. Moreover, the proposed rules do not introduce obligations for businesses or citizens, because this is voluntary. To do so, using the provisions of this law is voluntary, and therefore there was no need to consult workers and employers from the Social Dialogue Council.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u118	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Zdzisław Pupa's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u119	Minister, we are discussing a law on specific arrangements to protect the customers of certain solid fuels in view of the situation on the market for these fuels. I've been to a meeting in one of the municipalities lately. I met, you could say, with people, residents who said they were always offered to burn not coal, but pellets in order to protect the environment. Their question is: "Those who smoke coal will receive a surcharge. What about us? This is where we talk about some solid fuels. Is the pellets taken into consideration? Is there any way we can find a solution for this type of green heating? That's my question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u120	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u121	I explained that by answering a similar question that has already been asked. As far as we know, the increase in the price of pellets compared to the increase in the price of coal is not that high. As I said, the prices of other fuels have also increased. The price of natural gas has also increased, that is a fact. That is why we wanted to introduce this mainly for those consumers, for those citizens who smoke coal because they have an old type of boiler. And these old-fashioned boilers take, to put it bluntly, garbage. Therefore, to ensure safety, no contamination... It's about stopping air pollution because instead of this coal, they're gonna be sunbathing waste, garbage. Thus, it is crucial to help this part of society with coal subsidies, which is the main raw material used in these old kilns. And the pellets... There is no other fuel, coal, and the price increase of this pellets is not as high as that of coal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u122	Thank you very much. One more question. Senator Zdzisław Pupa. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u123	Minister, forgive me if this is my question that might trigger a discussion, but this question is important. Indeed, the threat is quite large when it comes to burning anything. Those 3 tons of coal we're proposing will not be enough to warm up a family home, unfortunately, but it won't be enough. And people will be looking for more savings. How it warmed up... Besides, there is also the question of carbon calories. With a high calorific value of 3 t, they almost will contact, while with a weaker calorific value they will run out of even 5 tons of coal. The thing is, what calories coal will be co-financed, these 3 tons. That's first of all. Secondly, we also need to think about what to do so that the threat that the Minister said wasn't so that people wouldn't smoke plastic. Well, these kind of situations are gonna have to happen because you have to smoke something. If someone spent $3,000 a year on fuel, now they have to pay $9, 10,000 or $12,000 at those prices that are now in force. The law is good, it's right, it's just that we should consider, look at the situation clearly, and be able to counter this threat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u124	To answer this question, when it comes to calories, I will say that entrepreneurs are obliged to provide such coal, about the calories that the one who was imported to us from Russia, i.e. adequate calories. It's got to be equivalent. It can't be anything worse than what was being imported. That's the assumption. This calorie stays... I can't imagine we're offering coal of inferior quality. We are bringing coal of the same quality as coal that has been imported so far from Russia.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u125	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u126	Thank you very much. Minister, I admit that I was concerned about your answer to my question about this mode of dialogue council. I understand the ad hoc situation, but it is very convenient for government administration, because in a moment it may turn out that e.g. civil rights will be suspended or otherwise, because there will be a situation of higher necessity. Therefore, I have another question for you. In that case, since this obligation of consultation by the Social Dialogue Council could not be maintained, it was not possible to submit such a draft law to Parliament in a different organisational manner, e.g. under the parliamentary law? Then, at least from a formal point of view, this law would be free of defects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u127	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u128	This mode has been adopted and it is implemented in this mode. In our opinion... We reject these arguments completely because they are irrational, they are not appropriate for the procedure of this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u129	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u130	Minister, just a quick question: who will control this calorie and the whole system in general... [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: It is included in contracts.]] Once again, who's gonna control this? Let's just say somebody's selling coal at the warehouse. Someone bought, sold, and made money. Who's gonna control the calories of this coal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u131	It's in the contracts that are on that coal that's already coming to us. That's where the parameters are. We don't buy... an entrepreneur who orders, not buys coal of any quality, but coal of certain parameters. That's a definite one.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u132	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. Thank you very much... [[I'm sorry.]] Oh, there you go. [[Danuta Jazlowiecka.]] I'm sorry. Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u133	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I'd like to ask a very short 2, 3 questions in a certain order. These further questions will come from the Minister's reply. Minister, the government was in no hurry to introduce important tools to reduce the inflation we have. You are right to say that unfortunately, in the case of this law, the pace is important, but this does not mean that the law is to be opaque, illogical, irrational and bring about chaos. I would like to ask what amount the Difficulty Fund currently amounts to, without this payment from the COVID Anti-Action Fund and how it is built, how the money is made up of this Difficulty Fund.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u134	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u135	I'm not able to answer that question right now, senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u136	Thank you. I will therefore ask you to answer this question in writing. Minister, it is right here that Mr Czerwiński has drawn attention to the shortcomings, to the errors in this bill. You say that this will apply to importers who will bring coal from 16 April 2022 to 31 December 2022, and then you also say that part of these measures, half of them will be earmarked for compensation in 2023. Does this mean that these importers have to buy everything they buy by the end of December 2022... or are they entitled to receive money in 2023? You also say that perhaps this fund will be increased to 9 billion. What's he gonna be funded out of? The first three billion are to be financed by the COVID Anti-Action Fund. And what are you going to be funding this $9 billion out of?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u137	We're not talking about $9 billion, for sure. This is one of the elements. As for the second question that the senator asked, all of this is to be contracted this year.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u138	Thank you very much. One more question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u139	You told the minister you weren't talking about 9 billion. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 15 you clearly write that in the first half of this year you spend 40% , in the second half of the year 70% But if you need more, you'll use no more than $9 billion $424 million. It's an art. 15 laws. Where's the $9 billion coming from?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u140	Thank you very much, Senator. I understand that was a question for the Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u141	This will actually be analyzed. Like I said, we'll see how successful this first period will be. Then we will think about how to solve the problems arising from the conclusions that we will draw from the first accounting period.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u142	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Benjamin Godyla's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u143	Minister, a very brief question. From what I've heard, we're under eight million tons of coal, the one we brought back from Russia. I have a question. Are we exporting our Polish coal? If so, how much? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u144	We don't export our coal. We have contracts of only 200 thousand t. It is covered, so to speak, by long-term contracts. And this is all on our side, on the side of Polish mines. And as for the gap that was mentioned, I said that the balance sheet that was executed at the moment... From our knowledge of contracts concluded by various institutions and companies, we already have no problem supplementing the missing amount of coal on the market, we are just waiting for it to enter our ports.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u145	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u146	Thank you very much. Minister, our debate is closely followed by those who are receiving us online. I received a question from one of the citizens who asks whether the price of 996 PLN will apply to each type of coal in terms of size, e.g. Eco peas, peanut fat. Could we ask for an explanation in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u147	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u148	The provisions explicitly apply to solid fuels: coal, briquette or pellets containing at least 85% hard coal. The faction doesn't matter here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Wojciech Piecha's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u150	Minister, I have such a brief question about the Central Register of Building Issues. Will it be possible to add to this register after 30 June, or will it be a border date?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u151	For us this is a border date, as I said, and it is difficult for me to say whether this date will be verified in any way. But I don't think so.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u152	I would like to point out here that art. 15 concerns gas fuels and here comes the amount of PLN 9 billion 424 million. It's about gas fuels. And yet with regard to fuel quality, this is the regulation of the Minister of Energy of 27 September 2018 on quality requirements for solid fuels and these fuels respectively...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u153	Mr. Senator, it's time to ask questions... [[...are properly tested. That's it.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jack Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! This bill raises a lot of doubts. During the discussion of this law, both in the committee and here, in the plenary room, we see that there are a lot of ambiguities, a lot of things that should be explained and described better, better organised and not. I took part in the committee's work and now in the plenary and I come to the conclusion that some intentions the government certainly has, but what, I don't know. Surely this is not the intention of helping people who will have problems heating their own homes. If this was the intention of these solutions, the Law and Justice Government would certainly do the same thing as many other solutions. E.g. Like at 500+: you put the money in your hand. As in the case of energy poverty and electricity subsidies, as the Minister said at the beginning of the year: money for the account. And here you're using a wonderful solution: the money will be given to entrepreneurs who will be distributors of coal. A complete change in philosophy, politics that Law and Justice have practiced so far. I get the feeling that, surprisingly, you don't want to buy your constituents with that money, just like you've done so far, you just want to fund someone. There's been a lot of confusion this year, for a few months, about the distribution of coal. There were allegations of speculation, of distribution mobs. Is there any way you'd like to continue sponsoring these kinds of activities of companies that are overpriced? It's super-suspecting, the more that the three billion that are destined to be... Firstly, it is not known whether they are secured, whether this money comes from the budget or from non-budget funds for which citizens will pay their taxes sooner or later. And secondly, this money is not enough for all households. And this is where my powerful doubts arise. Because we're probably gonna have to deal with a race or some sort of trade in these privileges, because less than 30%. households will be able to benefit from this. Unless, I don't know, you're expecting some new app, and we're getting 30% off or 300 zlotys off. No, I'm sorry, $1,000 700 discount. It's mega-mixed, mega-clear, it's a very well-prepared bill. I personally believe that the law should be better established, as Senator Jackowski said here. That bill was badly processed, it is a terrible bill and in my opinion it is not to help villagers and cities who sunbathe houses with coal, only to help some entrepreneurs, perhaps friends and friends of the rabbit. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u156	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In case there is no doubt, I will say that I support this law because I support every action and every project that helps citizens. I will start with a systemic remark: you cannot decide to hit those who have taken this country seriously. In recent years, we have convinced citizens to switch to green power, and today you are proposing solutions that treat worse, treat like second-class citizens who have taken it seriously to move on, for example. It's for the Pelet sunbathing. Minister, you just made two arguments, including this: we don't pay extra to those who sunbathe because there's less price increases. There you go, I just asked a friend to take a picture. The price of the packaging of the pelet, here at the bottom, 1 kg, 2 zł 39 gr, i.e. 1 t costs 2 thousand 400 zł. Minister, where do you see this lower price increase in the case of pellets? Well, take the citizens seriously. You've been trying to convince them to move on to a pelet, and today you're using two arguments. One such thing: we don't pay extra to those who took us seriously and switched to green fuel, they invested in green fuel, because here is a lower price increase. That's not true, what I've shown. The second argument is even more bizarre: we need to help those who smoke coal, because they can smoke garbage in their furnaces, and those who have gone to the pellets cannot smoke garbage. Well, you guys are making fun of the citizens. You say, "We reward those who can smoke garbage." Well, I've never heard anything so psychic in my life, which is why I'm starting my speech. We have been fighting for clean air for years, among the 50 most polluted cities the largest group are cities from Poland. What are you guys doing today? Today you hit those who took these programs seriously. And now I'm going to the program itself and what's in it. First of all, context. As I said, I support the bill itself, but let me be honest with you, I'm worried about whether or not it will be implemented. Why? You should be aware that in the coming heating season there will be no heating coal in Poland. We're gonna run out of peas, green peas, coal, that's pretty sure. Who said that? Dominik Colorz, head of Silesian-Dąbrovsk Solidarity. It's hard to say he's politically an enemy of the government. And what did the president of the Polish Mining Group say, what did the Chamber of Commerce repeat? We're hoping we'll run out of 40%. carbon. You're predicting that you're downloading coal from abroad. After all, the capacity of Polish ports and we must speak loudly about it today is that we know that we will have a problem, even when this coal is contracted and there is competition in the international forum and we know that it will not be that simple. We are worried, even when we contract this coal, whether it will actually have a chance to arrive in time and whether it will be unloaded. The next thing you know, it's a remark... Like I said, I have a system commentary, but I also have comments about the way this bill is organized. The gas has recently increased by more than 70%, coal by 275%, pellets, as you can see, cannot be said to be significantly less than coal, because this is really not a big difference. Moreover, your representative, the government's representative for strategic energy infrastructure Piotr Naimski, says: "There are no indications that energy prices will fall. It is therefore necessary to adapt to this situation. What do you propose in terms of adaptation? The Sejm accepts the bill that goes to us today. This law in theory is intended to provide coal for the price of 996 PLN for the household. In case there is no doubt, I will say that such help to Poles is extremely necessary, but the method of execution you present here is terrible. The Act will enter into force As you can see, the Senate is taking care of her immediately. On vacation. Some Poles are already trying to buy coal. In addition, the limit of carbon per house is 3 t. And again, we know... The Minister says it's an average value. Only the truth is... Last week I had a meeting with a group of village housewives from Dmosin and there they said: average doesn't mean the same. Of course, there will be a problem, especially with those country houses that are unheated. Another thing. The payments are for companies, not customers. And again, what do you suggest? Coal dealers may not have an interest in selling coal at a regulated price, because the raw material is likely to be missing, so customers will pay the price that is currently on the stacks, e.g. 3,000 500 zlotys. I checked the price in Pomerania yesterday. It is therefore highly likely that coal will run out and that not everyone will want to participate in this system. There is, of course, a group of actors who will participate in the government programme. But what group of actors are we talking about? If a private coal company applies to the program, it will have to sell coal bought e.g. For 1 thousand 700 zlotys, 2 thousand, we do not know yet, for the price of 996 zlotys. He's gonna get the difference, as you suggest... You say the first tranche will be in October, but as I know life and all previous government programs, October will be November or December. The next tranche will be in the new year. So the government literally wants the entrepreneur to borrow coal for at least a few months, so in practice, it pays for it to be sold. And ultimately, it's not clear if he's gonna get this compensation. Why do I say that? Because you set a limit of PLN 3 billion. It cannot be excluded that a large proportion of this money will go to state-owned companies that already declare their participation in the programme, and then aid to entrepreneurs will, as I understand it, be reduced proportionally, because there is a limit to resources. In one sentence, who will benefit most from the subsidies? State-owned entities that sell coal, in particular if they sell domestic coal which is cheaper than imported coal. They will benefit from selling domestic coal, which is cheaper, and will benefit from subsidies as if it were imported coal. In my opinion, this example shows that you have actually written a programme, the main beneficiary of which will be state-owned coal sales entities, because, first, you exclude some of the citizens, those who, for example, are. they heat houses with pellets, secondly, you create a system that is disadvantageous for private entrepreneurs operating in this market, and thirdly, you create financial barriers, because in advance you set an unrealistic financial limit to cover these costs. As I said, for me, the absolutely worst thing, the reprehensible thing, the thing that should not have happened, is that you are slaping the sulphurous cheek on those who have taken the Polish state seriously, that we are fighting smog and that we all want Poland not to be a country in which according to WHO data 50,000 people die because it is constantly or periodically in places where air pollution standards are exceeded. Of course, I am not in favour of making some changes to this programme quickly now, because citizens are waiting for it to be adopted as soon as possible. For this I am absolutely in favour of thinking as soon as possible, you as a government, we as a parliament, and coming out with an initiative to include a support system, for example. Those who heat their houses with petet. The list of what this law does not regulate is longer than the list of those who are the beneficiaries of this law. She doesn't regulate, for example. the problem of heat and power plants. Minister, you say the heat and heat plants have mostly contracted coal. Yeah, they do. But at what prices? At new prices, i.e. prices that are not prices from last year. This is in most cases, I do not say that always, because sometimes exceptions and long-term contracts occur. The only problem is that even in the case of such contracts today there are renegotiations of these contracts. This law does not affect the huge or large Polish gardeners industry at all. Well, in the face of current prices, I'm concerned that food prices will actually rise dramatically. In conclusion, I can say that I welcome this initiative, but it is a pity that it is so underdeveloped. I expect that the government will immediately come up with an amendment to those who have taken seriously the fight against air pollution in Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u157	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u158	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I think this discussion shows us where we are. We're obviously... At the threshold, at our borders, we have war, we have a major crisis in the markets for energy fuels, we have high prices, we also have instability in the climate and energy policies of individual countries. Because, on the one hand, it has been said for some time that, for climate reasons, it is necessary to change power sources, to encourage customers to move away from coal furnaces to gas, to say that this is the right fuel, and now it turns out that gas is not exactly the right one from a climatic point of view, and in the context of the ongoing war, it is actually, you can say, expensively deadly. And from this point of view, this law and in general thinking about this aid is, in my opinion, generally late, especially since, as far as we know, information on the development of the situation in Ukraine has probably been in possession of the Polish authorities since November last year. Now it's June, so it's already 8 months ex post. Option strategies could be developed to different extents due to developments. Have such strategies been prepared? Oh, no. The Minister answers my question: it is the need for a moment. Well, the fact that it's bad with coal has been known for a long time. And it's bad for a very simple reason, for this reason, which has been known for many, many, many years and with which... Even one of our former colleagues, who was a senator and later a Deputy Minister responsible for mining, lost his position, and I think that if we were to examine why he lost his position, we would find out what pathologies are about coal trade in Poland. I will not develop this topic, but I am surprised that the various specialised state agendas, including special services, are not more interested in this problem, why coal costs, let's assume, 1 thousand or 800 PLN there, then the same coal which lies on the square and which he bought or acquired the owner of the square, already costs 1 thousand 800 PLN. And he also has to add up his margin, so ultimately this coal costs as much as it costs. After all, this is not a new phenomenon, it existed unfortunately also before the outbreak of war in Ukraine. Therefore, it seems that such a law should be considered, moreover, it should be socially just. Well, it can't be that there are groups that are going to benefit, and those that aren't going to benefit. We are about to say that we are going to take a credit vacation and it may turn out that some on these credit vacations, I am talking about these bank credit vacations, they will earn a lot, and others symbolically 2 zlotys. And this raises some obvious questions: why is it so? Why people who took for a good coin what they said in the framework of climate policy, fighting for clean air, that is to say, to change power sources, to turn to Pelet heating, wood pellets... And all of a sudden, it turns out that no solutions actually apply to them. Why will heat consumers, who have this misfortune, be fed by heat and power plants in medium and smaller cities and, sometimes and in large cities, not be helped? Minister, I listened very carefully to your words, but as you said, the poorest are those... I don't want to stigmatize or generalize anybody here, but there's a difference between those who tan with coal. In this group there are both wealthy and very poor people. But those who live in community housing or social housing are also people who, you might say, do not belong to wealthy people. I'll say it very gently. And that's why the state aid system should, in my opinion, be thoughtful and fair, not point-to-point and social demand, because suddenly it turns out that if the price of coal is 3.5 thousand PLN, someone will lose the election and will not rule anymore. Well, that's an immediate bill. What's more, the bill that they say is malicious, if it compares electoral geography and where they're coal-burned apartments... Well, maybe there's some correlation here, obviously. So we see that this is an action... In his speech, Senator Kwiatkowski raised a very important problem, who would actually be the beneficiary of the proposed law. Who will be the beneficiary of the proposed law? So there's a lot of doubt. Of course, no one in the Senate will vote against the bill, because we generally believe Whether it's a government camp or an opposition camp It is important to support that the state should support at this very difficult time, so to speak, the wallets of Poles. 'Cause if someone's growing 300% or 400% costs of heating his property Which is the basic social good of an apartment or a house and in which it lives And yet we are dealing with galloping inflation... All this together causes a drastic decrease in the standard of life of Poles. The reason is, of course, very much, not the time and place to analyze them all at this point. And that is why, in my deep opinion, the government should present a comprehensive system of solving the problem that we are discussing at the moment. We've got a heating season ahead of us. We don't know what winter it's gonna be like. I think it will be a very difficult time for Poles, for those who supply heat to Poles, for companies. For everyone, for local governments, for heat and power plants, for government administration, and above all for citizens, this will be a very, very difficult time. And it's not about using it for political purposes, it's about creating a coherent, coherent support system. I'm throwing this idea right now: perhaps some kind of energy voucher available to people who in different ways, e.g. differentiated income criteria... I'm giving an example, I'm not saying that this is the only solution, because there can be a lot of solutions. But it is about the kind of solutions that would give the citizen a sense that the principle of social justice is in some way in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u160	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This is actually a special time. Today, most EU countries are preparing energy efficiency plans. No one underestimates this problem. No one except Poland. Poland... I recently asked, and a few days ago I received an answer signed by Minister Moscow. Poland or the Polish government is still living in the belief that there are no threats. And no plans are being made by the government. But in order to address the whole problem, let me first quote a few statistics. They are very important in the context of the discussion on the whole issue. In 2021, some more than 8 million tons of coal were burned in households in Poland. I repeat: in households. In 2021, 3.8 million households burned coal. 3.8 million. These are statistics available in the CSO, provided by various NGOs, e.g. The Energy Forum. These data appear in very different places, I'm just quoting them. The government designed PLN 3 billion to help support the coal area. Well, let's try to count it. Three billion. How much carbon for 3 billion, in the case of those amounts that are written in the bill, can you subsidize, what size? 4 million t. Where's the other 4 million t? There isn't. Only half of Poles will get help. You don't know which half, but half gets it. Okay. How many households are gonna get help? 3.8 million coal burns. 3 t... Actually, more burns, Minister, than 3 t, that's a little over 4 t, that's the average burn, a little over 4 t. I'm talking about statistics again, Minister, so you don't have to shake your head. A little over 4 t burns on average in the household during the winter, depending, of course, on what this winter is like. If it's warm, it might be 3 t, and if it's so traditional, that's it. A little over 4 t. So for what number of residents or households is this size enough? For 1 million, 330 thousand. 3.8 million burns, and that's enough for 1 million 330 thousand. What do the others get? Nothing, nothing. How is this help built? It would seem that this is aid that has a dimension of social assistance, and it would seem that this is aid that should be dedicated As the countries of the European Union do To those who are affected by energy poverty. And what's it say in this bill? She's for everyone. That's what Okay, look out! You were right, Senators, My Speakers. Attention, in general, that the lady who lives on welfare benefits has 500 zlotys a month for life, is connected to the aggregate, systemic heat supply and is affected by energy poverty, this assistance will not be received. That is not possible under this law. But a man who has a palace built somewhere under a big city or something... and has a revenue of PLN 50,000 a month, he's gonna get that help. After all, this bill is written exactly like that. Is this the fight against poverty? No. It's a crime, it's a classic, typical crime. And here really the intention is sewn somewhere else, because it is not really about helping Poles, we are not solving anything in the area of energy poverty. Nothing, nothing. This does not apply to those affected by energy poverty at all. This applies to those who will be the first. And if there's more, then... There's a fine print, as often in bank papers, I'm sorry, Mr. President, it is written that if this amount of 3 billion is not enough, it will be properly raised. What does that mean? No coal trader will enter this system, only companies of the State Treasury, and exactly 3 mining companies will enter into it. This bill is only dedicated to them, only to them. These three billion auction coal houses... These 3 billion people are gonna go to these companies and I'm gonna make a tough bet with everyone that's gonna happen. Because no normal person will be interested in participating in this system, no normal person... someone who does business on their own account. or else: who has at least a little knowledge of economic activity It's not going into this system because it's a wick. This bill is a wick. This is pretending to help, but we don't help people who are affected by energy poverty, it's not dedicated to them, we don't support those who really need this kind of help. It's not just the coal-powered ones, because those who are powered from a system source will actually pay more. And look out! Those who are powered from a system source and the heat is produced from gas will pay n-fold more. And the government's gonna say, "We fired them from VAT." Excuse me, Minister, but what about those who heat up fuel oil? They are not exempt from VAT they have 23%. You didn't even notice. What about those who heat up LPG? The rate of 23% will continue to apply. You didn't notice that either. The damage to the environment is less? It's much smaller. But you don't want to solve this problem, you just want propaganda. There's full-scale propaganda on TVP. At the end Poles will wake up with their hand in a potty, because in fact there will be no coal. This coal, which flows to Poland from different locations, will be sold at stock prices. I'm sorry, 3 days ago I checked, today I didn't check for $375 for 1 t, not for the Baltic, so we have to add transport costs to the Baltic, port handling, etc. So this is going to come out about PLN 2.5.3 thousand. As you say, the subsidies will be given to those who will offer 1 thousand zlotys, and you will add one thousand more... This entrepreneur would have to be an idiot, because he'd have to add 500 zlotys to 1 t. Is it really that hard to count? Can't you guys carry out these simple bills? Is it that hard to calculate? You threw away the whole story about renewable energy sources. And recently there was this one Sunday, when 67% of the country's demand was covered with RES. You know how much this one Sunday? We saved coal burned in Poland because we have RES, only on one Sunday? One thousand 200 t... sorry, 60 thousand t, i.e. One thousand 200 wagons. One thousand and 200 fewer coal wagons were burned. But PiS butchered RES in 2016, took out windmills on land and pretended to want to solve the problem. The government can't get out of this problem these months. You're pretending to be solving something. Hypocrisy is, really, a scandal to the entej power, that subsidies for this coal will come from the money that is at the disposal of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management. Let me remind you that this fund was opened more than 30 years ago with environmental charges and environmental penalties. The minister's head is spinning, so I'll explain to you that I'm right. This money from there, i.e. from the national fund, goes to the Government Fund for Local Road Development, yes, yes, Minister. And then to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency. You probably don't know that, but read it. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Climate and Environment Piotr Dziadzio: But this does not apply to this law, absolutely, Mr. Senator. You're wrong.]] [[Please, Minister, don't interrupt.]] It's in my time, so the marshal's gonna charge me, so stop the minister. It concerns this bill, Minister. You don't have any other money, you don't have any other sources to cover, because you don't have that money in your budget either. It's only from the government's local road development fund that you have the money. That's it. I'd love to, since you're denying... If you ever write that again, I'll be obliged to you, thank you for making a mistake. I'm afraid I'm right. The second part of this fund is money from the State Forests. And that's exactly where you want the 3 billion. The money that should be used to improve air quality, to improve the quality of the environment, you want to spend on the consolidation of the 19th century. You're from the 19th century, that's true. The PiS is from the 19th century. And you want Poles in the 19th century to stop. You know what? You can't do this. The Poles will know in full that you have cheated, and it will be in the fall, because there will be no coal. 3 billion you will pump into 3 mining companies, this will be the result of which only 3 companies, which have mining costs at the level of PLN 600.700, will be able to offer coal for PLN 900, plus your surcharge, i.e. those 3 billion PLN as a result, at the end. At the end, because it's not until 2023 that you have that money. All the other market participants aren't gonna get into this because there's no game rules here, and the ones that are, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, they're, If you really wanted to help Poles who needed support and millions needed in the area of energy poverty, you would write a bill that concerns those who have such problems. They're registered. They get housing benefits. No matter what kind of residential substance they live in, they receive it through urban social assistance centres or municipalities. Whatever. There are your self-governments there, as if you'd forgotten about it. This mechanism... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] Mr. Marshal, the minister interrupted me. This mechanism is clearly described. All you had to do was use things that have been known in Poland for years, but neither can you. [[Time, time...]] I know, Mr. Senator, the truth hurts. You must be in pain.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u161	Time's up, Senator. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Applause]] You're welcome... I will now take the floor in the discussion. Minister! High Izbo! I want to thank you first of all. Yeah, I'm just doing it a little ironic. I confess, there is some irony in my words, but there is also a lot of honest thanks for trying to explain this law to us, and also for what is not common in the case of this government, i.e. for such elementary respect for our House. You came here, which doesn't happen to all the ministers, and politely as much as you could. He answered our questions. But you've done something even more important. Well, it's a little irony from my point of view. Well, you've completely exposed and demisted one of your president's basic lines, just a few days ago, in a meeting with the voters. Well, as one of the fundamental legitimacys of Law and Justice to govern Poles, the President, your President, considers that you had the best diagnosis of the international situation. No one was afraid of Russia. You were afraid of Russia. Only you, according to your president, have understood the threat from the Russian Federation perfectly. And what does it turn out to be? Having a well-known threat from the Russian Federation For many years, as we hear from the president of your party Your government, which rules eight years, has not prepared for the West to go to war with Russia. What do you mean? After all, you say that only you believed that the West would go to war with Russia, that no one else believed it. Moreover, your president says that this is a fundamental moment, that Poles should be grateful to you, because you knew more and recognized the agreement of forces in international politics better than others. I'm sorry, Minister, but today you proved that it wasn't true. Today, you said quite honestly that this bill we're talking about, a bill that, even for that reason... You admitted that she was being prepared ad hoc and quickly, because the case was sudden. This bill brings with it certain dangers, it has shortcomings that are better spoken of than I am. Yeah, but how is it possible that you guys were on something that nobody supposedly knew about... You were the only ones who knew there was going to be a war with Russia. The Lord here today admitted that for what you were supposedly best prepared for all over the world, you are not prepared at all. And that's why it's the problem I mentioned. This bill, like many other laws and actions that have been taken over the last few weeks, the activities related to galloping inflation... In the case of some of these actions, as we have also talked about here today, you cannot deny your noble intentions. Indeed, there are attempts to deal with this problem, but these actions increasingly resemble the behaviour of a person who slides off a rock during climbing and instead of stopping the sliding process, only accelerates it with his panic movements. Well, that's the opinion that people agree on about having a more left-wing and more liberal view of the economy. What you're doing now, regardless of your intentions, certainly doesn't fight inflation, it just increases inflation. The laying out of these 3 billion PLN, which we are discussing in this particular case, regardless of how noble the intentions accompany it, is, of course, another factor in inflation in our country. And if... Well, that's worth saying. Even though, as you claim, you were the only ones in the whole world who knew that the war with Russia was going to happen, you weren't prepared for it. Let us put a kindly veil of silence on the fact that this point in your propaganda is quite illogical. But we'll agree that you're certainly not to blame for this war. Well, it's not the law and justice government's fault for Putin's criminal policy. It's undisputed, there's no doubt about it. Obviously, the government of Mateusz Morawiecki or Beata Szydło is not responsible for COVID, because COVID would come to us, as would war with Russia, regardless of who would rule in Poland. Here every honest man has to put a dot and say, yes, it's true. Regardless of who would rule in Poland, there would be COVID, and there would be war with Russia, and problems with one and the other would meet every government. But in this respect, we have to ask ourselves equally honestly: how to deal with these problems that the Law and Justice Government has encountered, the government has responded and dealt with them. Both in terms of the war with COVID and in terms of the consequences of the war with Russia, we have the right to judge a specific government and specific politicians. And this assessment is dramatic. During the COVID, as you know very well, several hundred thousand more Poles died than the statistics would have shown. Unfortunately, the Poles under your rule lost the war with COVID. And today we are losing the war on inflation dramatically. Today, too, we have to answer to each other... If Poland and the Polish economy had been better prepared for this difficult element which is coming, today Poles would not have to pay so much for the war, which, of course, neither the Poles nor the Polish government have caused. For how you have responded to those threats that were not your fault in Poland, you will be accounted for by history and, unfortunately, you will be misjudged. Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal, can we still speak in the discussion?]] Please take the floor of Marshal Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u162	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At least we have learned that the Government of the United Right is not responsible for the war in Ukraine and for the COVID-19 epidemic, because sometimes when we are in the media and discussing opposition policies, they can also burden the rulers. I would just like to refer briefly to the speech by Senator Kwiatkowski, who is not here. I mean the price of the pellets, I have the data from June 25, 2022, so these are data, Dear Sirs, from 3, 4 days ago. Premium Drago Ecopelet available in a large network store I'm not going to mention his name anymore. In bags of 15 kg it costs PLN 17.90 per bag, so the average price of this fuel for 1 t is PLN 1 thousand 200. The premium copelet 0.6 mm price for 1 t is 1 thousand 265 zł. So not $3,000, as the senator just said, and definitely less, and maybe that's why there are no petal payments. I'm sure the Minister will be able to take that into account. Ladies and gentlemen, many criticisms have been made here on this bill, and perhaps the Minister would like to refer to it. You can probably find weaknesses in this bill, because there is really pressure of time, the circumstances when these laws arise, recently, but the situation is very difficult. Is this a situation to prepare for? Was it really possible to predict war in Ukraine and this deep economic crisis that affected the whole world, and the reason, as experts say, is not only war in Ukraine? Many factors are responsible for the deep energy crisis around the world, and most of all Russia, because even before the war in Ukraine started, before Russia attacked Ukraine, it already started speculating on prices, e.g. gas, mainly reducing significantly the supply of gas to Western Europe, so prices have started to go very high. Ladies and gentlemen, this has started to apply not only to gas, but also to oil, energy in general. So the reasons are more complicated. It is also a factor in the European Union's climate policy that needs to be said about this, too, and too ambitious targets, because of which we were told to close the coal and brown mines by 2030. We did not agree to this categorically, because we believe that we have to achieve zero-carbonity by our own means, and we cannot achieve such ambitious goals, because it will have a huge negative social impact, i.e. it will lead to energy depletion as well as economic impacts, i.e. it will make our economy uncompetitive. So there are many reasons for the crisis. How could this crisis be prepared? We've been saying for a long time that Russia is dangerous. We were talking about Russia attacking. We talked about Russia being aggressive in its imperialism and in its desire to rebuild an empire in the shape of the Soviet Union, within the Soviet Union. After all, because this is what the environment of Law and Justice said, decisions were made in 2005 and 2007 on the construction of the infrastructure to make Poland independent of hydrocarbons from Russia. After all, the first decisions were made at the initiative of President Lech Kaczyński to create a gasport in Świnoujście. Then those decisions continued. Gasport was created in 2015 with a capacity of 5 billion m3 of gas. We were recently the Committee on National Economy and Innovation in Świnoujście, where the expansion of the gasport is taking place. He can already take 8 billion m3 of gas. The third tank will be ready in a moment and it will be possible to double the amount of gas adopted to Świnoujście in 2015 because it will be possible to adopt 10 billion m3. So, under the rule of law and justice, there will be doubled the capacity of the gas-port. It will begin soon, because this process is already ongoing, the construction of a floating gasport in Gdańsk, which will have a capacity of 12 billion m3. We built Baltic Pipe, a pipeline that connects Poland with the northern shelf, with the Norwegian shelf. That's where the gas will go at the end of the year. This also allows us to become independent of gas from Russia. Saying that the Government of Law and Justice has done nothing about energy security, independence from Russia, about energy sovereignty, is deeply unfair. Dear Sirs, there is also the construction of a pipeline that connects Poland with Lithuania, so that from Klaipeda, we will be able to receive gas from the gasport, which will be delivered there as liquefied. Ladies and gentlemen, gas prices have increased significantly and, as I said earlier, war is responsible for this. Not only is Russia still speculating on gas prices. What's going on in Germany? After all, in Germany, which you often give as an example, a second energy alert has already been announced. A law is being drawn up that will allow for the regulation of energy, and Germany is preparing to do so, and coal plants which have already been closed are rapidly opening. They want to increase coal extraction and imports of coal because they don't have enough gas. Supply from Russia has been reduced by 60% and gas is needed for industrial production, for example for chemical production. The world's largest chemical company, BASF, needs gas. Recently, it has been reported that if supply falls to 50%, they will have to close down industries, so they will lose industry, the German economy. Who could have been prepared for such blackmail from Russia? After all, Russia is the dominant producer of oil, gas, also coal, uranium. This is also an important issue, because those countries that have nuclear power plants, uranium for fuel production are also needed. So, of course, it was possible to prepare for this earlier, and I am talking about Western Europe, and then this blackmail would not work for Putin. Because if the Germans, instead of building Nord Stream I, Nord Stream II, built gasports, then they would not be so sensitive to these blackmails from Russia and Putin. But Putin knew what he was doing, addicting them to each other, because... well, now you can see how they behave in Germany, France or those countries that have to buy these hydrocarbons from Russia. We see how they behave towards Ukraine, war in Ukraine: with great distance, certainly not how they should behave. But, ladies and gentlemen, the Polish Government, the Government of the United Right responds to all that is happening in the energy market, that is all that, ladies and gentlemen, is affecting our citizens. Hence the anti-inflationary shield 1.0 Thus, the anti-inflationary shield 2.0 concrete solutions that are about to reduce energy prices or fuel prices. Let me just remind you: a reduction in VAT for electricity from 23% to 5%; for natural gas From 23% to 8%; for heat, so-called. Heat From 23% to 8%; for fuel, 23% to 8%; a reduction in VAT for food from 5% to 0%. The inflation started to fall, but the war broke out, the energy prices went up. The whole world notes that the world's largest politicians notice that inflation is responsible for these high energy prices, and Russia is responsible for it, which speculates on fuel, fuel prices and has caused war in Ukraine. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is difficult not to see these actions of the government. And, as an opposition, of course, you criticize them and criticize the bill discussed here. You're looking for a second bottom. But I think it's very useful. This is very much needed, a concrete aid that will go to the poorest ones. Because very often coal in small housing communities, cooperatives or individual farms is heated by those who most need this help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u163	Thank you very much, Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u164	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll begin with a few comments to your Marshal's statement. Your Marshal has presented a whole range of actions by the Government of Law and Justice or the United Right. Mrs. Marshal, this isn't about us telling each other who, how much action they've taken. The most important thing is the effect of action. And this is what needs to be pointed out, whether the actions, regardless of which government, are working or not. Because there are governments that can do nothing, and that's working. There are governments that have to work hard, and the quality of this work is that it doesn't work. And now don't blame everything that's wrong in Poland and the world for war and COVID. Of course, I do not agree with those who say that the war and the COVID are responsible for the Law and Justice. I'm on your side, Marshal. It's not like that. It's for war. Okay, I'm declaring it again. The law and justice are not responsible for COVID in Ukraine and for COVID. Nevertheless... [[Voice from the room: At least that's it.]] That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to say, Mrs. Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, that you have no success in either case, no success at all, no failure at all. We don't agree here anymore. 'Cause you're saying we're doing this much, that's all... Well, what are the effects of COVID? The highest mortality rate, in Europe for sure, or perhaps in the world, perhaps over 200,000 people. So what are we talking about the effectiveness of the Polish operation in the system concerning protection against COVID? And now the Minister presents the Coal Act. Today I found out. 'Cause I didn't know That this is to be financed by the COVID fund. I said, what's it like? Well, that's the way it is. So, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, uh, These are your actions. And now with regard to the issue of the law, I will no longer refer to these great successes, construction of ports, gas, etc. Mrs Marshal, ladies and gentlemen, it is important to be clear that you will not escape the fact that the average inflation in the European Union, which is even more affected by the increase in the cost of energy products, different raw materials, is twice as low as in Poland. Let's hypothetically assume that half of this is COVID's aftermath, for which PiS is not responsible, and the war in Ukraine, for which PiS is not responsible. Yeah, but the rest of it. This is your joyous work. From the President of the National Bank of Poland to the Government of the United Right. This is your joyous work. You are talking about the fact that Europe has become increasingly dependent on Russia, which is a fact. This was a manifest error in Europe's efforts to obtain energy factors. But tell me who was the biggest importer of coal in Europe. I'm sure you know that. This country is called Poland. Who is now in third place when it comes to trade with Russia? I'm sure you know that. This is Poland. So let's leave out who and how he was addicted, who wasn't addicted, let's leave the construction behind, let's not talk about the fact that the president made the decision that they were building... This is the continuity of power: some make decisions, others finish investments, and the third, who then come to power, cut the ribbon. Let's just leave it. Let's talk about this bill. Please note... I asked the Minister... I'm betting dollars against nuts that we're gonna run out of coal at the end of this year. I hope I'm wrong. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I hope I'm wrong. We're gonna run out of coal in the balance sheet. I'm talking about coal not only for heating, but also used for production Anything related to those 68 million or 74 million... Yeah, different data. I think the Minister said 64 million today, but... how much? [[Voice from the room: 62 million.]] 62 million. Anyway, 12 million on heating plus is all you consume in the industry. A large group of people involved in this field says that there are no technical possibilities for 62, 64 million or 65 million tons of coal in Poland. But maybe they're wrong and the Minister's right. And there is a problem, because there is a clear rise in the prices of coal, energy products, which is the most severe for the poorest. As Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz said here, there is another group, but you completely ignore it... And now I am. What are you doing? You are building a personal, central aid system, and there are aid systems in the municipalities for people who need to be helped. After all, it is simple: run this aid system, apply the corresponding conversion rate and apply this aid. But no, you're running a central system, 1.5 billion from a covid fund divided by... and so on. Please note what the aid system is. So someone, Minister, who today has 15 thousand zlotys of income a month and burns coal, has an apartment, will also buy one thousand zloty. Right? He's gonna make a statement, get a certificate that he does, and he's gonna get... And someone who's got $3,000 in income will also make a statement and buy them three tons. Is this a fair system? You know, I've lived a long time, and I remember that's how they helped in the Polish People's Republic. There were subsidies for municipal dwellings, not for low-income families, but for municipal housing. In municipal homes there were often presidents of various companies at that time and they also received this payment. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, Can't you get away from this system? After all, there is a social assistance system in the municipalities. He exists, they have a database and they know how much they need and who they need. You just have to decide how much money you have for it, how much money you want to spend on it. And that will help the most needy. Where's the money gonna go? I was asking about it today because I still don't know exactly how it's gonna go. Jan Kowalski will come and buy 1 t of coal for PLN 970. If it's going to be 1.5 billion zlotys a year, how many families are going to be secured, will he get paid? It's easy to calculate: if we add 1 thousand PLN to coal, this will be about 500,000 families. Is only 500,000 families in difficulty, Minister? Did you guys do that calculation? You don't even know how many families there are, I suspect, but there's more than 500,000 of them. So you're doing everything from the hat again because you think the central authority knows how much to help, how to help, the distribution system... But then, when this whole thing collapses... And, Mrs. Marshal, we don't say that here to enlist in philosophy... Well, in difficult situations, in crisis to whom Do you have to help the most? People with the lowest income, people with the most need, etc. And there's no need to build an alternative aid system for people who are in a difficult material situation, because this system exists in Poland. All you have to do is sit down with the municipalities, create a framework for the amount of money we spend on it, and run the system. And the state again from the top, the system, 1.5 billion, divided... Well, we'll see. I'm full of fear. This better work, but this system has nothing to do with a good organization, an effective organization, and above all, it's totally unfair. And the state in its name has the right and justice of both of you, and unfortunately you do not comply with this bill. Therefore, so many of our concerns and concerns that the state, instead of solving this problem, will cause it to be the same as with the Polish Ład. We said here not to do it, you did it forcefully, and so it will be. We're gonna meet again, and we're gonna correct it pretty quickly so that it doesn't turn out to be a comparison here that some of us are gonna have to collect chrust to burn in the oven. And that's why I'm skipping all the other issues that the marshal was talking about, not oil, gas... We're talking about this bill, and this bill carries the dangers that I'm talking about. We talk about injustice, about inefficiency, about centralism, about helping the most deprived people who miss... And these are the most important drawbacks of this project. But if the expectations that you have spoken of here are fulfilled and you are probably talking about as Law and Justice, I will say: sorry, I am sorry, I have been wrong, I have read the studies not of those people who have an idea of the aid system and what is related to aid for coal subsidies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u165	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Maria Blanket.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u166	I've been so short, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! As for this mortality at the time of the epidemic, of course we regret every death of a Pole that occurred at that time. Only, my dear fellow Members, the various statistics showed these quantities. Because, as we talk to doctors, we hear that some countries didn't include, for example. death at COVID, but in connection with other diseases. So it is not that somewhere else people did not die, but only in Poland, and that in fact these statistics are the highest in our country. But COVID, Ladies and gentlemen, it was a disease, but it was also an economic crisis that affected the whole world, it also affected Poland. It was also a lockdown that shut down many sectors of the economy. And when we talk about inflation and sources of inflation, and there are such charges that the government, when preparing some assistance, also fuels this inflation, it must also be said that the cause of inflation was in some way anti-crisis shields, the financial shield as this state aid for the economy, for businesses, in the amount of much more than PLN 200 billion, the aid necessary to maintain the potential of Polish companies to maintain this potential during the lockdown and economic crisis and, above all, to keep jobs. It was a condition that the aid from the shield will be paid, will be provided when the jobs will be maintained. It worked, we have very low unemployment, and that's what this was all about. And that was certainly also one of the factors stimulating inflation, you can't say that it wasn't, but this help was necessary. We are one of the first countries to help their companies in general. And keeping jobs here was a priority, because unemployment is the biggest disaster. You know what it was like, how you ruled, how you faced this problem, so you know what the consequences of unemployment are and how huge the social problem is. Ladies and gentlemen, about these sources of inflation... Well, that's not what this bill is about. I think that the law itself and this criticism will be addressed by the Minister. You're criticizing President Adam Glapiński. Well, there's not much time. I just want to say... You think it's too late to raise interest rates. I'll just remind you, my dears, that the Czechs started raising them in June. We started picking them up in October. Czechs, raising interest rates, choked the economy and had an economic growth of 0.8% in the first quarter of this year And inflation is higher than us anyway. With us, as President Glapiński said, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki also spoke about this. It is necessary to balance between economic growth and interest rate increases, because it is always this growth that chokes. So we had 9% in the first quarter. Economic growth, Czechs had 0.8% And the inflation's still bigger. We are fighting inflation, ladies and gentlemen, but you are also inconsistent in what you say, because on the one hand you want to fight inflation, so that you do not put money into programs like this, and on the other hand you claim that you need more help, that this aid must involve even more people. So there's a certain lack of consistency here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u168	I'm just gonna say... Mrs. Marshal, please read carefully what GDP growth is. The magic of numbers is really... Many politicians talk about it bluntly and only give one number or number. I will say this: Polish economic growth is one of the highest in Europe in 2022. And if we're done with that, it's glory and honor. Only if you strip it off, you'll examine what this growth is... I want to tell you this. It's 8.8%. That's, like your marshal said, nearly 9%. But you know that 7.7% In the case of this growth, is production for the warehouse? Of course, Polish entrepreneurs predicted that certain supply chains would collapse and therefore produced 7.7% in the first quarter of the magazine. If we add that there is almost a 2% drop in trade... That's disturbing, too. And that is the issue of investment. See what are the main drivers of GDP growth: production for storage, trade for minuses and investments at the lowest in 30 years. And this is the economic growth that the marshal is talking about. Just don't talk about it, 'cause if it gets undressed, it turns out there's nothing to brag about. With regard to this issue, that we are inconsistent, that we are talking about helping, and this help gives rise to inflation... Mrs. Marshal, I'm addressing you, and I'm addressing you. I would like to say once again: we are in favour of selective aid for those in need, for those whose inflation is the most affected. Who's inflation gonna touch the most? Those who have low income, who have an income of PLN 2.5.3 thousand. Not only will this inflation touch them, it's in this amendment... You say, "We've reduced taxes." A for reduction from 17% to 12% Who's gonna benefit most? Poor? They won't benefit from it, so don't tell me you're cutting taxes. If you say you're helping... Don't help everyone, because if you help everyone, it means you don't help anyone. We say that we will support what you will propose when it comes to helping, but it is to be selective, wise, effective for those who need it most. Because if you bring everyone down, you give them all, the finale is that you're not gonna help anyone or help a small group of people. Therefore, I encourage reflection and repeat once again: we are using the help of those who need such help. In the case of this law on aid to combat energy exclusion, we are also in favour, we are just talking about threats. That's not how it's supposed to be done. I'm not gonna say what I said again. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u169	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Would a government representative still like to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u170	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short... First of all, thank you very much for the discussion. Discussion is needed around every bill. And for my part, I have to say that I very much respect the fact that there are doubts, but there is a time for a decision and this decision is just one. In your hands. This bill is needed. These are actions that are socially necessary. Therefore, I urge you to adopt this law, so that you may proceed with this law, because it has an enormous social significance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u171	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Public Documents. The text of the Act is contained in print No 744, and the report of the Commission In print No 744 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Halina Poora, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u172	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today was the meeting of both committees. The committees are asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment. All I can say is that what aroused the discussion was, first of all, that in fact the entire original law of 22 November 2018 came into force because at least in part it had quite a long vacathio legis, because up to 48 months. So that she didn't fully enter into force, and we're already withdrawing from part of her records. On the government's side, such a justification was given. This is mainly due to the fact that it does not incur too high costs for the security and printing of relevant documents, as well as technological progress, and that most of these documents are included in electronic registers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u173	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Dear Mr Marshal Bartosz Grodecki from the Ministry of Interior and Administration. If you don't mind...]] You're welcome. Come on up to the podium. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Yes?]] Yes. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki: Actually, Senator Poor concluded very well what was happening. This is a very short bill. So I have nothing here...]] Then, of course, there is no obligation to speak. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration Bartosz Grodecki:... to be completed actually.]] Good. In that case, thank you, Minister. But the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? The bill is not controversial, so thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators Gromko and the Swedish have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the Social Financing Act for business ventures and assistance to borrowers. The text of the Act is contained in print No 742, and the report of the Commission In print No 742 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance a report on the work of our committee on the Social Financing Act for business ventures and assistance to borrowers. Our report is in print No 742 A. Yesterday, on 28 June, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance met to examine the content of the Act and its observations, all opinions. The result of our work is acceptance of this law. We ask for the bill to be adopted along with the amendments. Those amendments that we recommend, we ask you to accept them. It's 43, so it's a pretty large number of amendments. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, this bill is extremely important. It deals with the most pressing problems of today and will also be important in the future. However, there are a number of problems with the Act. She does not solve all the problems that are now emerging and will appear during the implementation of the law, after its entry into force. First of all, there's a question... I'm not discussing the bill in detail. She happens to be, you could say, three parts. The Act, which deals with several sensitive problems related to the functioning of Polish society, Polish state institutions and private, commercial entities, has been This happens once again, constructed in such a way that it implements or solves, trying to solve 3 separate problems which in practice should be described by 3 different laws. We have had a declaration by the Minister of Finance in the past, because we, our committee, are particularly interested in this matter, that there will be no more laws that solve various problems, not necessarily related to the most important part, which is the basic subject of the law. Remember the senators such a classic example, where cases concerning the work of prisoners were included in the Act on the National Bank of Poland. This law may not be as dramatic and unambiguous as that one, showing the absurdity of legislative proceedings in the Sejm, but also consists of several distinct parts. First, the essential part That's the issue that the law was supposed to solve. It concerns the implementation of European legislation. Basically, I'm going to say that it's a part of the so-called. crowdfunding for economic activities. These are generally good rules, we don't analyze them. What's more, I'm gonna say this case wasn't the subject of any more discussion. This section deals with the problems of exiting the crisis caused by COVID-19 and other pandemic cases. It is extremely important, it regulates many important matters. But as I said, because of the second part, which concerns helping borrowers, this first part was actually marginally treated during our meeting. I would like to say that, in the first part, on the principles of crowdfunding... that the implementation of these solutions will result in the elimination of unnecessary bureaucracy, the reduction of regulatory complexity and compliance costs for investment firms and the elimination of distortions of competition with due regard for the protection of interests and, as a result, the relaxation of the economic turmoil resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. The second part of the law, which, as I said, should be a separate legal act according to the committee, concerns matters related to support for borrowers. As if this were not enough, in the second reading, legislation was introduced at the seymical stage, which concerns quite other elements, which are de facto related to the extension of the so-called. protection of the anti-inflationary shield, extending the provisions on VAT exemptions, VAT reductions and excise duties. And again, the part that should be the subject of such an in-depth analysis. And it would have been if it had been included in a separate law, it was marginally treated. And this part is also extremely important to society. And then there's the third issue, and the middle one in this bill, about helping borrowers. This case in the media sense, and as regards the problems you see... We see everyone outside, how serious this is because of the galloping inflation, which is already more than a dozen percent, which is a very serious problem, as well as a clear increase in the interest rates of the National Bank of Poland. This, of course, leads to the fact that borrowers, especially those mortgage holders, who were borrowing loans related to the financing of the purchase of apartments, found themselves... i.e. A large part of them were in a very difficult situation. The rules that are being introduced here and proposed are generally saying that all those who have borrowed loans for the purchase of their apartment And this is the only apartment they will receive the various types of relief provided for by this law. The case seems to be as obvious and as it should be, because the state should be helping borrowers. But in an in-depth analysis of the document, it turned out that there are many, many problems involved. In preparing to analyze this law, we asked for opinions from various official, administrative and social partners, realizing that the consequences of the entry into force of this law may be different in nature. In the first place, we addressed the Financial Stability Committee. This is the most serious and most important institution dealing with situations related to the risks associated with the functioning of the banking financial system. At the head of the Financial Stability Committee is the President of the National Bank of Poland, which is composed of the Financial Supervision Commission, the head of this committee, the Bank Guarantee Fund and of course the Minister of Finance. We felt that the opinion of such an institution would be extremely important from the point of view of proceding this law. We received an answer, but only from the President of the National Bank of Poland, who is the chairman of the committee. In his reply he said that this was the answer only to him, he did not speak on behalf of other partners, because they did not agree on a common position on this matter. Therefore, concerned by this situation, I asked for the views of the other members of the Financial Stability Committee, the Committee on Financial Supervision and Banking Guarantee Fund. I did not ask for additional information from the Minister of Finance, because it is known that the Minister is also at the committee meeting and in plenary, so he will present his opinion on the bill. Of course, these institutions had a short time to answer, because it was my question that was addressed only when we received this kind of quarter answer from the President of the National Bank of Poland, i.e. given only on his behalf, but we received answers. And these answers, unfortunately, have been very disturbing to me and to the members of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. The heads of these institutions replied that they saw a clear threat to the entry into force of the provisions of the Law which the Sejm proposes, and that these are provisions which are very dangerous for the banking system, because the cost to the banking sector is approx. 22 billion zlotys. And these are the records that will cause a pro-inflationary effect, which is increasing inflation in our country, and inflation is the most serious threat today, which I think we all see now, seeing what are the prices of products, goods in our shops, services. We also heard the views of the social partners in plenary. First of all, we asked about the opinion of the Polish Bank Association, President of the Polish Bank Association. The assessment of this relationship was, of course, very critical, and the President was talking about the serious problem that commercial banks could face, especially commercial banks, this year, but especially next year. Similarly, the president of the cooperative bank association spoke. Moreover, since these are small banks closely linked to local communities, the situation of cooperative banks can be very, very serious, critical, which could lead to a large proportion of these banks becoming banks in the next year, which will be in a serious financial crisis Therefore, corrective processes and various other actions will have to be carried out in order to try to save these banks. We also asked for the opinion of the Lewiatan Employers' Union. Here the statement was similar, etc. Seeing the situation surrounding this law as it is, we have asked the Minister of Finance to come to our meeting today and he will know what I am talking about, and he also attended the entire meeting of the committee yesterday. In order to try to analyse this problem in which the banking sector can find itself, especially since it can trigger this, it will give another inflationary boost. We also asked your Marshal to move this point forward, so that it would not be the first or second point, only that this report would be around 2:00 p.m., 3:00 p.m., to give time to the finance minister, who could agree on some proposals for solutions with the Bank Guarantee Fund, the National Bank of Poland and the Financial Supervision Commission, possibly with the social partners and possibly propose amendments. These doubts we raised at the committee's meeting were that this aid was received by all of us. - regardless of the level of income and the problems they may have So it's a common aid. It seems that perhaps it would be better if it were addressed only to those borrowers who would be, in connection with the entry into force of this law, in a more difficult situation, and thus less wealthy. This law provides for these credit holidays, various possibilities of support, support also for borrowers. As I said, this is a common solution, which is addressed to all who ask for such help. The basis for this solution is also the solutions that were adopted in previous governments, the previous team. It's about setting up a special aid fund. This solution was created when there were these serious problems with French loans. Then, as a result of the adoption of the law, in 2015, we adopted such a solution to create a special aid fund. This aid fund, after some modifications, will be an important element in helping borrowers. So we've given this time, and I hope that Minister... We are ready as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances to propose such amendments together with the government and with the institutions responsible for finance in Poland, which I mentioned, which will prevent the dramatic problems that may arise in particular next year. We can see what these solutions could be, but it seems that responsibility for these solutions should first take over the government. Because, you know, it is he who is responsible for economic, budgetary and also the fight against inflation. And the government should propose such a solution, which, I think, would be safe for the whole system and also beneficial for those citizens who will be in a difficult budgetary position. And I think that the Minister will answer these problems whether he tells us in the course of his report, information, or at the question stage. Those amendments that we accepted There's a lot of them, they've been accepted in consensus, they've also been approved by the government. Some of them are legislative, some of which are substantive, precise, explaining the issue at all... Because, as you remember, there was information in the media area that this solution could only apply to borrowers who received or received loans after 2017. Well, this bill applies to all those who... regardless of the period during which these loans were taken in the past. Such clarifications, the clarification of this law is, as I said, a total of 43. All the amendments were supported by the government, which is why I recommend them. Probably mostly we will be able to vote on them in one vote, because of the information I have provided here. The most important thing is to answer this question, which has been mentioned. It was strongly drafted at the committee meeting. There was also a request to raise this question from the Senate stand and to ask the Minister for solutions that would be best in this situation. I'm declaring the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance once again, but I think all senators, too, if we... Because the point is that we should adopt these good solutions so that they can have the support of the whole House. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute of questioning to the representative... Excuse me, to... [[Rapporteurs.]] Something's not right... yes, to the Senator Rapporteur. Would any of you senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u176	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. You were talking about the part that concerns the Creditor Support Fund, but you didn't say what amount was going to be allocated to that fund. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? Do you have any idea what amount will be allocated to this Creditor Support Fund?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u177	Yeah, this fund is supposed to be increased to about 1.5 billion... No more than PLN 2 billion, less than PLN 2 billion. One billion 800... [[Voice from the room: In total...]] A total of PLN 2 billion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u178	Is that all, Senator? Yes? Thank you, then. . That was the only question, Mr. Senator. Now... Wait a minute, 'cause I've got some gaps in the Senate script here. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: No, thank you.]] Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Wojciech Necessary. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u179	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, this matter has been discussed, but I would like to know if the Ministry of Finance has estimated the effects of this law. In particular, I am talking about whether, as a result of the introduction of this law and the need for banks to set up reserves, banks will not show income and will therefore not be required to pay bank tax and possibly CIT. Did the government predict it, calculate it? What will the amount of money possibly be, the amount resulting from the lack of revenue to the state budget? What is to be covered by this loss of the budget for the tax unpaid by the banks? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u180	You're welcome, Minister. Welcome to Minister Piotr Patkowski, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Yes, such estimates were made and are also included in the impact assessment for this project. As far as costs are concerned, first of all payments to the Creditor Support Fund... This is the sum of PLN 1 billion 400 million. Introduced by another bill, but here we also inform about it, so-called. institutional protection system for commercial banks, i.e. IPS, is 3.5 billion PLN. I put it here because it's in a package of solutions, but the law itself doesn't treat it. So, for the record, I remind you of that. In terms of credit holidays alone, we estimate that the total cost for the banking sector in 2022 will be less than PLN 9 billion. Accounting rules make this cost of a loan holiday for the current and future year to be counted once in terms of the impact on the banking sector. And here's a very important thing. Let's take a look at this last cost of credit vacations in the use category, not expenditure, moving it into the accounting language. These are not the irreversibly lost costs of the banking sector, but the costs that banks will recover in the following years of the credit agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u182	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is Senator Jacek Bury.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u183	Minister, I would like to ask you something that may be less related to the law, but in my opinion it is very important in the context of helping our citizens who have loans, but also in the context of possible holders of any investments and savings. Haven't you thought about helping those who have savings, although these deposits are below inflation? And it's well below inflation, below WIBOR even? We are dealing with a situation in which we help borrowers, while those who have savings finance this assistance, among others. through the so-called. Belka's tax. Isn't this the time to abolish Belka's tax?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u184	Thank you. Not only are we thinking about helping those with savings, but we are doing this help. By issuing retail bonds. The first tranche was issued in June this month, and is remunerated depending on the duration of the bond or inflation, or the inflation raised by a point or 1,5 the percentage point, or, with shorter-term bonds, the current amount of interest rates announced by the NBP. So we create such an alternative offer for those who are looking for opportunities to locate their savings. We don't want to. It is not the intention to interfere with the civil law agreements offered by the banks, although we do not hide that the purpose of these bonds is to encourage banks to raise the interest rate on their investments. And for a few months now, not only the government, but also the public, are calling for it. It should be noted that there are banks As it happens, they are mainly banks with the State Treasury. - which have raised such interest rates in the last few weeks. We hope that the sector will adapt to this. We can use incentives here, incentives quite strong in the form of a competitive offer such as retail bonds, while we do not have the possibility to increase the statutory interest rate on bank deposits. [[Ad vocem. I know you can't raise interest rates, at least in commercial banks, but Belka's tax is already up to the ministry, not the banks.]] Yes, but, as I mentioned, the government has proposed retail bonds as a really attractive offer to locate savings. Well, I notice in the banking sector, or at least parts of it, the urge to run away from problems. I mean, as usual, the government has to offer everything, the government has to offer everything, while the banking sector is watching from the side and then wondering that society has these expectations rather than other expectations. I repeat: the government's offer to people who want to be safe and attractive, as for the current effects of inflation, to invest savings is retail bonds issued by the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u185	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Wojciech Necessary.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u186	Thank you very much. Minister, we didn't understand each other a bit. My point is that if this law comes into force in the proposed form, banks will have to set up reserves. If they have to create reserves because they have to assume that all borrowers will suddenly want to take this credit holiday, then they can simply bear the losses. As a result of the losses incurred, they will have to implement the recovery plan and the recovery plan assumes no payment of bank tax or CIT. My point is that according to estimates, at least those I know, this could result in a lack of about PLN 4 billion 500 million in budget revenue. I'm not talking about how the banks can handle this, I'm talking about how the budget can handle it. Is it true that it could be more or less that kind of sum? That's the first question. And the other. What should possibly cover the budget gap if the banks do not pay the taxes we are talking about? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u187	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u188	Yeah, we're predicting a loss in CIT, I forgot to tell you. This is an effect directly on the state budget. This effect was estimated in the impact assessment for 2022 at PLN 1 billion 700 million, that is loss for CIT. When building the State budget's income plan for 2022, we did not expect such high revenues from the banking sector, and therefore we did not take into account the high CIT tax. In general, if we look at the execution of CIT over the last 5 months in relation to the planned timetable, we will see that this is one of the best-performing taxes, definitely exceeding the budget execution schedule. Of course, there is a potential loss of less than PLN 2 billion of CIT tax revenue here, but this will not be a loss in relation to the planned timetable, so it will not increase the assumed deficit. It would simply be measures that would reduce this deficit compared to the planned one, but do not have an impact on what is in this budget. We also believe, as is the case with other anti-inflationary measures implemented by the Government of Law and Justice, that the state budget must bear the burden of support for the groups in need, including borrowers. This is our cost, as in the case of e.g. VAT reductions or a number of other measures. It's just another element like that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u189	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u190	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, when it comes to borrowers, of course this is a very positive amendment. I'd like to ask, because in the context of this earlier question of mine... As far as the Creditor Support Fund is concerned, this is, as I understand it, an amount of PLN 1 billion 400 million. But I also understand that this amendment removes this WIBOR indicator. Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u191	Yes. As far as the support fund is concerned, there is an additional amount of PLN 1 billion 400 million, so this fund will amount to PLN 2 billion, because at this moment the fund will have funds of PLN 600 million. The Act provides for what is the next element, i.e. provides for a procedure for the designation of a replacement WIBOR, and this is in line with the BMR Regulation, which obliges us to introduce such a procedure. However, this procedure does not indicate exactly what the replacement will be or the date of its introduction. As regards the replacement of WIBOR, this will be done by means of a proposal from the Financial Supervision Commission, which is subsequently assessed by the Financial Stability Committee, which is composed of NBP, KNF, BFG and the Ministry of Finance. It will then be introduced by a regulation of the Minister of Finance and this regulation will specify the exact indicator that will replace it and the exact date of its implementation. The political announcement by Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki on the date was on 1 January and in this direction the Financial Supervision Commission is carrying out this work together with the sector, the Ministry of Finance or the Bank Guarantee Fund. That's about the replacement. A separate issue is the alternative indicator to WIBOR. Here, in turn, GPW Benzmark has a leading role to play, which sets out such a procedure. There is not even a need to issue a regulation of the Minister of Finance, simply the GPW Benzmark indicates such an alternative indicator. We would like, and I would like to stress very clearly, that both the substitute and the alternative indicator should be the same measures and that they should come into force as far as possible if this were demonstrated by the public arrangements and consultations that we are conducting at the same time. Let us also remember that WIBOR is not only an indicator used for credit agreements, but also for bonds or a number of derivatives, so we need to be very careful here so that the financial sector and the financial markets can accept it calmly. Perhaps some solutions will be adopted here, which will allow for some transitional period. At this point, we do not want to change the main assumptions, i.e. the dates 1 January 2023.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u192	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u193	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I don't know about you, but I have the impression that those who are saving, or showing attitudes, I would call it, in this case, prostates, and those who take loans, are treated unfairly. Those who save are treated a little bit like a stepmother. Please note that you were talking about indexed bonds or reference rates or inflation as such, but only since the second year. In the first year the interest rate is fixed. And you should want to get the cash back as soon as possible so that this cash doesn't ruin the market. Don't you think it would be helpful to help borrowers and savers, but to some extent balance it out so that those who save don't feel hurt?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u194	Thank you. Yes, it has to be balanced, which is exactly what the senator said, which is retail bonds, which have met with a very lively interest. I can't give you the exact amount right now, but I'll say that in June alone, the sum for the bonds issued and sold is a few billion zlotys. That's the amount we managed to pull off the market. It is well known that by issuing bonds, we are able to attract several or even tens of billions from the market in the medium or shorter term, but without the participation of banks it is difficult to encourage customers to place their money. So there's also a big role for the banking sector here. We encourage the banking sector to do so. As I have already mentioned, some banks have agreed to this. I'm sure we, as the Ministry of Finance, will continue to offer retail bonds. Minister Skuz is still thinking about making this offer as attractive as possible. Let us remember, however, that the wording of the "pulling money from citizens" by the Ministry of Finance can be very misconstrued by some. As the Ministry of Finance, I'm sure we'll stay with the bonds, but I have the impression that socially it wouldn't be very good for the finance minister to take money from the citizens.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u195	Thank you very much. The question is Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u196	Minister, in the course of the committee's work, there was an opinion that worried me a little bit. This is the opinion presented by one of the representatives of the banking sector, who said that those who benefit from a credit holiday will then have a worse banking score, in some sense being punished for benefiting from this law. Do you provide for the Minister to take any action, perhaps just making some recommendations through the Financial Supervision Commission, so that the benefit of the law does not involve any sanctions, which could then be a consequence in the event of further commitments?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u197	Thank you. This was pointed out during the work of the Standing Committee of the Council of Ministers and perhaps the Economic Committee of the Council of Ministers, the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. KNF also had that remark. The decision was clear: the guidelines for both the UOKiK and KNF are such that such actions are monitored by these institutions and that, if necessary, they will respond accordingly. The point is that borrowers should not bear the consequences that the senator has said, i.e. the use of this solution. KNF and UOKiK are ready to react decisively if this occurs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u198	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! But I'm going to go back to that problem because you've gotten away with it a little bit, Minister, from the answer. Why is the bond rate fixed over the first year, probably 5% with a penny or 6% with a penny, and only then is inflation taken into account for those longer... or a reference rate? That's one thing. Secondly, borrowers will be immediately assisted by this law and savers, as it turns out, after a year. As for banks, the two largest banks in Poland, PKO BP and Pekao SA, are state-owned. Why don't you tell them more so, encourage them to take part in the right action you were talking about, the bank, because then they're gonna drag the other banks with them? And so it's in these banks, you know, to be honest, it's like an offer, but it's either for new scrapers, and these old ones leave themselves alone, or for small amounts, or there's a limit... Anyway, if you really have savings, you're going to get too much, so to speak, you're not going to feed on those banks.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u200	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u201	As for the first part of the question, let us also remember that these bonds are adapted simply to the conditions offered by the Ministry of Finance. And let us also remember that these bonds, however, are related to a certain coupon, which then the state budget pays. So we always have to balance that with the cost of handling the debt. But, as I said, Minister Skuz is also thinking about constantly monitoring the market situation, making it more attractive. So I also accept this remark and I will tell Minister Skuz to draw attention to this issue that you were talking about, the senator. So I'll take it and just hand it over to Minister Skuz. As to the second point, unfortunately, as Minister of Finance or Stet, I probably have a limited, very limited impact on the banking sector's activities and a very limited possibility of forcing banks to do so rather than other activities. Yes, there are banks with the State Treasury, mainly 3 banks. And here, too, I know that the Ministry of State Assets spoke to the bank presidents in this direction. And if we look at these banks, we'll see that they've taken action pretty quickly. Although I think it was the actions primarily caused by concern for the client and that was the result. Nevertheless, I think the overseer will be working here too. Although this is perhaps more a question which, as I might suggest, should be asked on the occasion of the visit of one of the members of the Ministry of State Assets. Because I honestly don't have that kind of contact with banks. And even if it was, well, it's not up to me. But for the sake of clarity, the Financial Supervision Commission and the Minister of Finance strongly encourage the banks and Prime Minister Morawiecki, above all, to take such action. And hopefully it will come true.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u202	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Kazimierz Klein.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u203	Minister, this whole operation is taking place today at the expense of scrapers, all those who have their savings in banks, because they pay the biggest inflationary tax. The inflation rate today is a dozen percent. And I think the concern for this group of people on the part of the ministry is far too small. And obscuring the fact that the biggest banks are managed by another minister And you're acting on behalf of the government. This is, of course, too weak a response in this matter. But I'd like to ask you a question like that... And that's kind of the main thing, because it also refers to my report and work at the committee meeting. 3 key institutions responsible for inflation, banking system, etc. They were very critical of the solutions that are here. The State did not participate in the work of the Financial Stability Committee. This committee, by the mouth of the President of the National Bank of Poland, should also clearly state what is the common position on this matter, very serious. And the charges are that this bill could cause inflation to rise by a few more percent. Such comments appear in the documents. Well, and then of course: that it can destabilize the situation in banks, especially in the smallest ones, i.e. cooperative banks. It seems to me that we, however, who should be very concerned about local banks, linked to local communities, should be able to answer clearly and precisely whether these risks are really such, whether they are not there, whether those opinions that are being addressed by these institutions are legitimate or not. Why did the Minister of Finance not attend the meeting of the Financial Stability Committee? Why is there no common, clear position on such an important issue that has so far-reaching consequences?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u204	Thank you. As far as the Financial Supervision Commission is concerned, she has been involved in drafting the bill from the outset and then in further proceedings. She participated in this to the extent that it was at the initiative of the KNF at its headquarters that meetings were held with representatives of the banking sector, in which the president of the BFG, the Banking Guarantee Fund, was also involved. There were 3 such meetings with me, if I counted correctly, but the KNF itself organized such meetings at least 5. So I think here... of course, the KNF issued an opinion, but I don't think she was that... Well, she wasn't even as critical as the senator pointed out. And above all, what is very important, KNF actually from the very beginning was not even a participant in the work on this law, but a host, one of the owners of these works. The words that President Mikołajczyk then uttered during the parliamentary work and during the Senate work indicate some risks that this project causes, but they result from a certain, I would say, procedural necessity. Well, it certainly wasn't a position, at least in my mind, critical. KNF also submitted formal written comments to this project during the arrangements which we as the Ministry of Finance carried out. In this letter, the issues that were discussed later were also the subject of a political decision. For example: the scope of the credit holiday. However, as I recall, these comments did not indicate or indicate a serious threat to the stability of the banking sector. As regards the Financial Stability Committee, this committee was held in the first half of June. I'm not going to quote the exact date now, but it was the first half of June. The finance minister took part with the other three members. There was a discussion about the bill. As a general rule, the positions of the Ministry of Finance and KNF were consistent. The NBP expressed some doubts, but they concerned rather the subjective scope, the persons entitled to a credit holiday, rather than the risk itself, or the impact on the stability of the sector concerned. Well, we exchanged opinions. If we look at the communication that was published by the National Bank of Poland after the meeting of the Financial Stability Committee, we will see that there are no drastic differences between the members of the PSC, as I recall. Rather, we are talking about going in the same direction. Some doubts have been expressed about this law, but this communication certainly does not indicate its denial by any member of the committee, does not question its validity, nor does it indicate serious systemic risks. Well, this message goes in that direction. We discussed the most important discussion between the Ministry of Finance and the National Bank of Poland. The impact of this project on inflation. Well, it doesn't seem to be big if you consider that Poland's GDP is likely to reach 3 trillion PLN this year. I take into account that this year the benefit for borrowers will be up to PLN 9 billion. Well, 9 billion PLN in the context of 3 trillion PLN does not weigh enough to contribute to the increase in inflation by several percentage points. And let us also remember that the loan instalments, at least at this point, are still growing. These instalments will be paid in July and at least in the 1st month of the 4th quarter, and this will also make this inflation dynamic not so high. [[So inflation won't be affected?]] It may be, but it's very small.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u205	Thank you very much. Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u206	Minister, the law is fighting a phenomenon which is actually a certain anomaly in the mortgage credit market that exists in Poland, the fact that most long-term mortgage loans are granted to consumers by financial institutions, by banks on a variable interest rate. This is an event for developed countries. In most developed countries, mortgage loans granted to the weaker party to the contract, i.e. The consumer shall be granted a fixed interest rate. Maybe it's a good time for us to get out of this disease yet children's development of the financial sector, which still provides banks with great profits when interest rates go up and at the same time abuse the relationship between the bank and the consumer, throwing the whole risk of changing the credit rate to the weaker side of the agreement. It's for the consumer. Whether the Ministry is leading or may take action... i.e. assessment of the abusibility of such an action, perhaps in cooperation with the UOKiK? And would the Ministry be interested in adopting a plan to change market practices, encouraging banks to offer mortgage loans on a fixed rate, while creating instruments that would provide liquidity support to banks lending households? So this is a question that goes a little beyond the scope of this law, but we are fighting a phenomenon that stems precisely from the privilege that banks have, the privilege of making unilateral changes in long-term contracts with consumers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u207	Firstly, it is worth noting that there is a recommendation from the Financial Supervision Commission on the obligation to offer fixed-rate loans, which is addressed to banks. Secondly, this work has been done to some extent in the last few weeks. It also appears that many borrowers were unconscious and probably were not fully informed about the possibility of borrowing a fixed interest rate. We remember that such a loan was even more expensive recently than a floating interest rate loan, but it also seems that there was no full information and education about the risk that a variable rate credit carries. Now this risk is materializing, and thus there is a greater interest in fixed interest rates. During the work itself on this draft law, the Financial Supervision Commission pointed out that perhaps it is worth using this situation to make a very strong popularization of... And that would be an advantage, I think, for everyone, especially for borrowers and for you, but I also think that in the longer term and for the banking sector. It is about popularising fixed-interest loans. And a good opportunity for that seems to be the matter of work... We are now in the process of discussing the replacement sector and the WIBOR alternative indicator. It seems that this is also a good opportunity to combine this with mechanisms that translate the emphasis from loans with a variable rate into loans with a fixed interest rate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u208	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u209	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, there's already been information on the amount of support in terms of your credit vacation. I'd like to ask if you have an analysis at the Ministry, how many more or less... Of course, it depends on the borrowers themselves, will they want to take advantage of this credit holiday, but maximum of how many people, how many entities, how many borrowers will be able to take advantage of this credit holiday?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u210	The number of mortgage borrowers with loans in gold currency is estimated at about 2 million. It is difficult to estimate interest in this I think it'll show time. On the other hand, the maximum estimate is 2 million borrowers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u211	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Finance Piotr Patkowski: Thank you.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Krzysztof Pietraszkiewicz, President of the Polish Bank Association, is also present at our meeting and asked to speak. You're welcome, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u212	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to thank you very warmly, but in this discussion there is a lot of information or some information that needs to be clarified or corrected. First of all, I'd like to say, ladies and gentlemen, it's not true. No matter who says it. In recent years, banks have not responded to the situation of their customers. I would like to remind you that before any action taken by the state banks took place in Poland, there was an initiative to grant credit holidays to clients due to COVID. 1 million 150 thousand people, customers received a credit holiday in connection with COVID, without any legal regulations at that time. Secondly, I would like to say that all the funds that were distributed as part of the aid to entrepreneurs and customers passed through the Polish banking system and were distributed without even reaching a profit zloty by banks. So many billions or hundreds of billions of zlotys were distributed through the Polish banking system. I would also like to point out that very quickly in a few, several days We have dealt with helping visitors from Ukraine, using various exemptions, discounts, etc. Therefore, I have a request to your senators, to the parliamentarians, but also to the public, not to duplicate claims which are false. And let me tell you one thing: we have been preparing for the COVID and for this crisis for many years. You're gonna say I'm crazy. No, I'm not crazy. The Polish banking system, from which both the state and we can all be proud, prepared to act in an extreme situation, even one that can be very dangerous. And that's why I come to you, to the Senate, to the Sejm, asking you not to destabilize this solution, in some wrong place, what we need to be strong. We cannot destabilize the Polish banking system through... Please see what paradoxical situation we have, you passed in 2015 a law, a change in banking law, which allows banks to grant credit vacations. And it's done. It's an art. 75c banking law. And that's what happens every day. I ask the question: are there any known cases of removal from the apartment? Are there any known cases of inappropriate treatment of customers in recent years? I'm talking about gold clients here because currency dispute is another issue. I would also like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that the proposal today, at such high interest rates, is to be explained by fixed-rate loans, at a time when we predict that the rates will fall, because inflation will drop a little... If we forced them to do it today, customers would tell us in 2 or 3 years that we fooled them, because floating interest credits will become cheaper than fixed interest rates. Percent constants usually have to be a bit more expensive when initiating. And then we'd have a problem together. So here's what we're doing. And it is right that the Minister said that all the infrastructure is being built for this, but it must be done carefully. There was a question about scoring if the banks were supposed to use scoring. Well, if a client comes to the bank, Mr. Senator, and says that he's in trouble, that he can't regulate obligations regularly, then it's obvious that the information that the client is in some kind of trouble is recorded in the systems. And the scoring has to do with it that all relevant information, whether tax or ZUS, whether related to work or employment situation or some kind of misfortune, affects the scoring. But we will be careful, I would like to assure the Minister and the senators that this will be done carefully here. And now, Mr. Marshal and Mr. Dear Sirs, what does our request come down to? To ensure that you have an agreement beyond political divisions that we need a stable banking system. And to answer the right question of Senator Czerwinski... Ladies and gentlemen, how are we supposed to pay better for deposits if you're willing to make that decision so that the banks lose 20 billion? After all, we pay our deposits on credit. And the loans fall, they grow only in large enterprises, while in micro-enterprises and farmers they fall. Ladies and gentlemen, answer your own question. We don't make money. We have to make money on loans to pay better for deposits. I'm talking about the main solutions that are profitable and cost-effective, and I'm not talking about these payment and settlement systems, because there's just zero plus. But that's what this banking business is all about. So if we're gonna get thinner by proposing a law on the support of borrowers wrongly, and that's a wrong solution, and I'm gonna tell you why... Who will receive, ladies and gentlemen, e.g. Is that backup? Those who borrowed at interest rates higher than today will receive them. Tell me, where is the point in this arrangement if those who borrowed 8, 7 years ago, at rates higher than today, have made a lot of money over the past years, because they have paid much less for these loans, now they are at the rate at which they made the contract, and they are simply going to get huge money as a gift. I understand that everything is difficult, but this is really a pro-inflationary solution and a demoralizing solution. There's one more thing. Notice what we propose this system would depend on. First of all, we do, and that includes. Thanks to the senators, the Creditor Support Fund Act. All borrowers with more than 50% residential credit their income, they can benefit from the Creditor Support Fund, which we will increase to the extent necessary. The Minister has estimated at 1.5 billion today, because 2 billion will be enough this year, but if it is necessary, it will be more money, because the fund board, after consulting the PSC, can set up more payments. And that's the foundation of this solution. The second part we're proposing is to open up a second group, those 40% of whom revenue would be allocated to the credit service, and this group would be included in the statutory credit holiday. So, in short, they're applying without any problem and they're getting these statutory credit vacations. And the third group, based on what you've written, you've adopted a law into banking law... There's art. 75c, which says that if a customer has any problems with credit handling, the bank invites this client and agree on the form in which the bank has to help or assist the customer. It's written down, and I have a record of this article in front of me. So I ask the question: why destroy the Polish banking system? Why bring some of the Polish banks into trouble? Why reduce tax contributions to the budget? Why? Well, I just don't get it. This is the situation that will generate the following: the pro-inflationary effect will work, so NBP will have to raise interest rates. Let's work together against inflation. Therefore, in the presence of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators, Mr. Marshal, I turn again. I know that Minister Patkowski is in a very difficult situation. I would like to ask the Minister and the Prime Minister, but I would also like to address the ladies and gentlemen of the senators and the ladies and gentlemen of the House: on this matter, let us do our utmost to ensure that the stability of the banking system and its ability to assist in getting out of the crisis are solid. This is the pride of Poland. For 30 years, we've built a stable, state-of-the-art banking system. Why should we destroy it? I, ladies and gentlemen, must say that I am so amazed and terrified, because this is a lack of self-preservation instinct for me, for all of us. I don't just refer it to the senators. All of us. We ran out of time to say: dear Poles, there is a difficult situation, we have been helping those who had such and such a share of the income spent on loans, and now we are increasing this pool from the machine and we expect the banks to implement under the supervision of the UOKiK and the KNF art. 75c. And I would like to make a statement: we are ready to make such a statement and promise that we will act rationally. We built a few million apartments this way, ladies and gentlemen. See that Poland is one of three countries across the European Union, where most housing is built, thanks to the efforts of citizens and banks. There's one out of three countries. France, Germany and Poland They are the countries that build the most apartments. Mr. Marshal, I must have abused... I apologize for my emotions, but it is difficult for me, as a representative of the banking sector, to accept that everything that was bad is, maybe, burden the banking sector. This is our share of the common good. That's where your deposits are. That's where your loans are. And that's where we're supposed to provide inevitably bank settlements every day. I'm gonna ask you again from here. If the marshal had found some strength in himself and received the consent of the ladies and gentlemen of the senators to address the Minister and the political forces to find a strategic agreement, I think we would show not only Poles, but also Europe and the world that we are able to cope with difficult situations. I believe it's possible. I believe you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u213	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that none of your senators... [[Voice from the room: There it is.]] You're Senator Bierecki. Well, then we'll have to sign up, Mr. Senator. [[Thank you very much. I was able to report...]] Yes. I didn't close the discussion. Please, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I joined the discussion partly under the influence of the very emotional speech of President Pietraszkiewicz, although I remember, and I have been walking in Parliament for 30 years now, that these speeches have always been emotional and always come down to the same statement that banks, God's weapons, do not take or take gold so that banks can gain more and more profits and that the state guarantees these profits to banks. And I have to tell you, in a way, we guarantee banks excellent profits through all the laws that we have adopted here, which in fact introduce banking coercion in Poland. Entrepreneurs have to operate through bank accounts, they have to operate through bank accounts. Consumers have to do more and more bank operations, they have to have a bank account. Of course, we have reasons for that. These are fiscal reasons. This facilitates tax collection and benefits. But it must be borne in mind that a large part of these benefits resulting from the actually forced banking sector in Poland are obtained. And what are the benefits? I quickly, as the President said, looked at the data and I think that this data must sound here, so that we have the correct picture of the banking sector. Here's the data for January. April 2022, or the freshest. The profit of the banking sector in the period of January April 2022 amounted to PLN 9.2 billion and increased year-to-year by 111%. This is the information of the National Bank of Poland. Net profit increased year-to-year by 70% in the first 4 months, the interest income increased well, 83% year to year, interest income in the first 4 months. Well, it can be said that the banking sector benefits from an increase in interest rates, because, as I said in my question to the Minister, banks also have the privilege of changing one-sided contracts with consumers and converting, as interest rates increase, so they increase the instalments of loans that citizens pay. There are many such privileges that banks have. So I would not like to see us here, after President Pietraszkiewicz's speech, convinced that the banking sector is threatened by this law. This is not the result of an impact assessment. This does not result from the positions of entities that are members of the Financial Stability Committee. We will certainly have a good, functioning banking sector in Poland, which we will indeed be able to be proud of. I can tell you that I have seen banks operating in different countries, including the European Union, and I must say that we can certainly be proud of the achievements of the Polish banking sector. He is much better organised, much more consumer-friendly, than those banking sectors operating in other EU countries. It's like comparing it to the best. Finally, to address the comments of my club colleague, Senator Czerwiński. Mr. Senator, well, the fact that banks don't raise deposit rates so quickly and so quickly is because they just have a lot of deposits. They just have a lot of them. But does this mean that the government is going to challenge and start a war with the banking sector over these deposits? It can do so, it can give such a rate of bond and start releasing such a number of bonds, so strongly selling them that it will become a serious competitor for the banking sector in the fight for deposits. But does that mean that loans are coming to entrepreneurs? Will this increase the availability of loans? Definitely not, because the government doesn't credit. In Poland banks do it, they do it well. So as long as we have the situation that the citizens of the Republic of Poland have large savings that they hold in banks, banks will look at their liquidity situation and offer interest rates on these deposits on the basis of their own calculations. And it's not the government or the whole sector's fault. That's just the way it is. Poles have become rich, have more savings and banks benefit from these savings, selling loans and freely shaping the interest rates of these loans. So much for me to correct your impressions after your speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u215	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Kazimierz Klein, I understand, also inspired.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I just want to say one sentence, short. If this law were to contribute to an increase in inflation Today inflation is the biggest problem of the Polish economy, Polish society and citizens If it were also to have an inflationary effect, even minimal, then we, as senators with a majority in this House, are ready to accept an amendment that will prevent such decisions, such situations. But to accept such an amendment, we expect an initiative from the Minister of Finance. Because we believe that responsibility for this issue should be assumed by the whole parliament, i.e. everyone, whether they are law and justice or from the Civic Platform or from other political backgrounds. Inflation is the most serious issue right now. It's a drama in many houses, in many families. So if we could get along over the political divide on this issue, it would be the greatest success and some hope, a sign that we want and are able to deal with the worst challenge that is now, together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u217	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Bladder and Durlak have made their speeches in the debate for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? No. Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws on the way housing programmes are financed. The text of the Act is contained in print No 737 and the report of the Commission In print No 737 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Janusz Bęcherz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u218	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration on 9 June 2022 on the amendment of certain laws on the financing of housing programmes. On 10 June 2022, the Senate Marshal referred the bill to the committee which had just been mentioned. Following the review of the Act at its meeting on 28 June 2022, the committees shall submit: The High Senate shall adopt the attached draft resolution. The aim of this law is to improve the financing mechanism for the social and municipal building programme, including non-refundable financial support from the state budget, primarily granted to local government units and public benefit organisations for the development of construction, which is intended to meet the needs of people with the lowest incomes. In recent years, many changes have been made to the laws standardising the housing policy of the State, including social and municipal construction. I'll mention, among other things. the Law of 20 July 2018 on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting the apartment, the Law of 10 December 2020 amending certain laws supporting the development of housing or the Law of 16 December 2020 on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock. This law amends 25 laws, starting with the Act of 8 March 1990 on municipal government, and ending with the Act of 16 December 2020 on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal real estate stock, i.e. the so-called. The property bill for the land. As regards the Fund, the payment is subject to an adjustment of the expenditure rule, which will allow the Bank of National Holdings to conclude contracts with beneficiaries for financial support only within the limit of expenditure fixed for the financial year in question. The selection of applications from September of a specific year and the examination of applications not considered in the following year due to the exhaustion of the limit of appropriations will follow. In addition, there will be a statutory definition of the maximum envelope within the total limit of expenditure on the social and municipal building programme in such a way as to guarantee money for key projects, i.e. the creation of a housing stock of the municipality and a new social rental resource. There will also be flexibility in the agreements between Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the beneficiaries, which will be able to update, at the request of the beneficiary, the amount of support by 10%. This should certainly be assessed positively. As regards the Government Housing Development Fund, the provisions are clarified so that, in the event of a failure by SIM to carry out a public service under a contract concluded with the municipality, the funds will be returned to the Government Housing Development Fund or to the Dopłat Fund, while the unused funds of the municipality may be allocated to other projects in the field of social and municipal construction. The rules of operation of the Payment Fund shall also be adapted to the change in the time horizon of the programmes supported by that Fund. This also needs to be assessed positively. It is important to reduce the number of members of the supervisory boards of social housing initiatives identified by the National Property Resources and to clarify the rules on their remuneration, which has been controversial since the beginning. I also see positive solutions in enabling KZN to transfer real estate to the municipality in order to dispose of it under the so-called rules. the housing law for land and the inclusion of powiats in the mechanisms of operation of this law. In the Seym, 436 Members voted in favour of the bill, none opposed it, and 11 Members abstained. The discussion focused on the amendments tabled by the Senate Legislative Office, which in part were taken over by Senator Błucher and in part by Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz. The most important amendments concern the deletion of Article. 25 and Article 25 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers pursuant Finally, 7 amendments to this law were adopted and the law was adopted together with the amendments. The discussion was also attended by Izabela Krawczyk from the National Council of TBS residents and Paweł Inglot from the Wrocław TBS. On behalf of the joint committees, I ask the High Senate to adopt this law together with the amendments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u219	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u220	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this is another positive government programme, but I would like to ask: was there any mention of how many tenants we have in Poland right now?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u221	Well, it wasn't at the committee meeting, the details... I don't think there was much discussion, and if anything, it focused on TBS resources, not municipal resources. Here, of course, we can tell ourselves that in every municipality, in every city we have a shortage of municipal and social facilities. All these activities that are being undertaken, among others. in these subsequent laws, which I mentioned, and these laws were earlier more, are intended to improve the situation on this market. I spoke yesterday at the committee meeting about the fact that maybe even the ministry should go a little further, so that incentives are strong enough to show much more intensive development of municipal and social construction.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u222	Thank you very much, Senator. That was the last question that... [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much to the rapporteur, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Yes.]] You're welcome. Hello, Mr Piotr Uściński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u223	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you for the opportunity to present your position. The Senator, the rapporteur, has presented the bill, and I will only complement one thing. These new solutions contained in the Act also offer the possibility of new rules for limiting programme appropriations for a given year. As we will also be able to spend the money we have saved as a ministry on other programmes, a minimum of PLN 1 billion 200 million will be available for housing support this year, it will be these additional funds. As for this last question, which the rapporteur expressed à about municipal housing, I would like to say that we in Poland still have about 120,000 families waiting for communal housing. In 2015, there were 160,000 families, so this number decreased by 30 thousand, which is 17% or 18%. The number of families waiting for a communal apartment has decreased. But we function all the time, we act all the time. I think that in Europe we will not find better incentives for building municipal housing than in Poland. 80% funding for the construction of municipal housing that we are giving from the Dollar Fund, that is a really high amount. Self-governments report for that money. There is no situation here that there is, let's say, a competition in which only some local governments receive subsidies. Whoever prepares the application correctly will submit it to BGK, they will get 80% financing for the construction of a municipal building. There is a hint that I answer in a sense to the question that has been asked to further encourage the construction of municipal housing. Yeah, we'll encourage you even more. With KPO's money... we're going to proceed with the proper law on the spending of KPO's money in the near future. We will propose that we finance up to 95% of the cost of building a communal apartment. Of course, these housings financed by KPOs will have to comply additionally with higher standards of national energy efficiency, but increased costs associated with it. These buildings will be a little more expensive to build. They'll certainly be covered, because they'll just get even more money. We'll have more modern apartments built out of KPO money. I cordially encourage your senators here to pass this information on to local governments and that local governments apply to the Donation Fund for these 80%. In the autumn, it may already be possible to apply for 95% if the projects meet the environmental criteria and all the building requirements to be built under the KPO. It won't be difficult to meet. Even projects that now meet the current national standards can, in a sense, be boosted up to these requirements. You can, say, add a photovoltaic installation to a project that meets the current standards, add a heat pump, and you can achieve environmental standards to meet the KPO criteria. I would like to encourage you to do so. I will also say that additional sources of funding for housing programmes will be possible through this law, e.g. BGK will be able to sell treasury securities for this purpose. I'm gonna straighten one out. Mr. Senator said what was in the government's submission, but that's actually changed. We will be able to update the amount of support provided if higher amounts, up to 20%, come out of the tender. There were 10% in the government's submission. but you will get up to 20% more if the costs determined by the tender are so much higher. Thank you very much for the opportunity to present your position. I cordially encourage you to adopt the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u224	Thank you very much, Minister. Please remain on the stand for a while, as the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're Senator Jerzy Czerwinski first.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'm absolutely in favour of the bill. Of course, the demand segment for apartments must be satisfied. But there's one more thing. Some of the people in our... There is such a belief that some families, people would like to have their own apartment. We agree on that. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Of course.]] And now I'm going to give you two numbers, these are the GUS data from the latest census. The number of apartments compared to the previous census increased by 13.7% from 2011. And the flats were empty, empty, popularly said, 12.1%. These are comparable numbers. So we have as many empty houses in Poland as we have cleanly, I would call it, we built it, because some of the apartments have fallen out, for the last 10 years. There are over 1 million 800 thousand in the number of ruthless deserts. Don't you think there's something we should do to get these deserts, I'd call it, run it? The existence of some of them is the result of this process, which we have just discussed here, connected with loans, with inflation. But this is the newest part. It's just a capital deposit. Let us consider the apartment, one apartment for one family or one house, a family house, also on property, as a right, a certain privilege. After all, we, as a state, can give such a right, in which it will not be profitable, in quotes, to speculate on housing and thus reduce the market for those who need housing the most, i.e. for themselves. Minister, how many apartments are you planning to build from these programs you're talking about? Compare that to the numbers I just gave you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u226	Mr. Senator, it's a good thing you're talking about the desert. He is in some way connected with this law, because we from the Dowager Fund also finance the renovations of empty houses to local governments. A large proportion of deserts Their number of CSOs in preliminary data published It's local wasteland, deserts, which are in the hands of local governments. These are rather mostly, as not almost all, objects, apartments that are simply not suitable to live at present, therefore they stand empty They're unexploded. They're unrepaired. We want the local government's fund to refurbish these deserts. It is very necessary at the moment that we probably have hundreds of thousands of apartments that could renovate local governments, just renovated them. Not this bill, but another one, specialized in refugee law, we've introduced regulations... They are not just about refugees, they are about Poland as a whole, but they are about the current situation, about these problems that are in the housing market. We offered time there, in the next two years... We hope that local authorities, on the one hand, will make a massive use of the Dollar Fund, on the other hand, will renovate these premises. And we temporarily allowed... This deregulation we have introduced, which will reduce the various administrative problems, let's call it. We will allow you to derogate from certain technical and construction regulations, so that as many as possible of these deserts can now be renovated. The fact that this is a temporary solution will cause, I hope, the local authorities will want to work out within this time limit and will simply actively join it. Emptynesses that are... Well, we estimate it's hundreds of thousands. The CSO didn't publish a specific structure, and this number of 1 million 800 thousand deserts doesn't say anything about the structure. In this structure there are probably apartments that cannot be rented, e.g. in places that are depopulation, because people have moved to a larger city, maybe in another area of Poland. In such places there are often empty houses, which are qualified as empty houses by the CSO, but there is really no possibility to rent there because there are no people willing to live there. There are very different situations when it comes to these deserts. We expect the CSO to clarify these data in the coming months and we will be able to analyse them better. As I say, for today we know that a large part of these properties They're municipal wasteland. We want the local authorities to motivate them, using simplified construction procedures and reaching for money from the Donor Fund, to refurbished these empty houses. And we're counting on it to be on a large scale in the near future. Therefore, we want to transfer additional money to this Fund, we want you to be able to support local governments, which actively respond to these expectations. The fact that the queue of families waiting for communal housing fell from 160 thousand to 120 or 124 thousand, is of course a great success, but it is still one hundred and twenty-six thousand families who are waiting for communal housing. So we want to support the construction of new municipal apartments, but also the renovation of empty houses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u227	Thank you very much, Minister. The question is asked by Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I come from Wałbrzych, from the city, which to a large extent uses these subsidies of 80%. In fact, we are building a lot of new buildings, and the president felt that building new buildings was more important than renovating old ones, which required a lot of investment. These apartments are directed to people who are not behind with rents, they are solid in paying rents, but they just can't afford credit to buy their own apartment. We use it very much, the people are happy. Do you currently have the Minister's knowledge of what it looks like in Poland? How many self-governments use this? How committed are they? Because I hear there's a request to involve these local governments to benefit from these subsidies. Do we have any idea what it looks like when it comes to national scale? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u229	The national scale of expenditure from the Donate Fund is... The Donate Fund applies not only to municipal housing, but also to TBSs, SIMs, where we will finance 35% of investments from the Donate Fund, and with KPO we will finance up to 60%, so I encourage you to invest in the SIM. Last year, we spent about 600 million from the Deposit Fund, this year it's 1 billion, 1 billion 200 million we want to add to this system next year. There's a billion dollars a year in the Dollar Fund Act from the state budget, but we're gonna throw in the money we've saved in other places, and it's gonna make it possible to increase that amount even further. I am convinced that if local governments want to build if they want to spend money on communal, social, TBS apartments, then we need to find and add that extra money. In KPO we will now have, if I remember correctly, EUR 755 million, or almost PLN 3 billion 500 million, which will also be used for these purposes. I give your numbers, show your commitment, they translate into the number of apartments. I congratulate Wałbrzych for taking part in this, all the municipalities that are involved in building municipal buildings, and I warmly congratulate him. It's worth reaching for this money because it's commitment, the state's support is big.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u230	Thank you very much. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u231	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, of course I am in favour of this bill. In view of the data you have provided here, I am pleased that the positive actions of the government and the support of local governments make the number of people waiting for the rent of the communal apartment fall. But I would like to ask how much support the local governments have received over the last six years in the area of municipal housing. Of course, if you have that kind of data.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u232	To be honest, I don't remember this number, the amount, but I can tell you because I have the data on me that was the number of investments supported in each year and how it changed. Here's what I'm gonna say. By comparison, I have this graph right here, but I'm going to give you two numbers. In the years 2013, 2014, 2015 started investments with state support were for about 2 000 apartments. Then it got bigger, then it went down a little bit, but there was more all the time. Last year there were almost 16 thousand investments that were started with government support, and now, in the first months of this year, there are already more than 6 000 of them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u233	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Janusz Bladder.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u234	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, after the Minister's answers, the question is whether you are planning to do something about the deserts, but in non-communal resources. Every city, every municipality is a different problem, and I will only speak on Kalisz's example. There are a lot of places in Kalisz, empty houses in private resources, and there are certain problems about doing something about it. They're actually in the city centers. While efforts are being made, combinations are made towards how to do so that the municipality can add to the private, but it is very complicated. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: It's about renovations, right?]] Yeah, the renovations, the deserts.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u235	You know, this is a very important issue. I'm convinced that if a private owner owns an empty house, it should be encouraged somehow... Municipalities should be looking for solutions to encourage private owners to do renovations on these deserts. Well, eventually, in the current market situation, refurbishing the desert would give them a good source of income. When there are no apartments for rent, renovated by private empty persons can be a good source of income. We in this law do not solve this problem, but the municipality theoretically has such tools. The commune, wanting to use that money, maybe... Well, that must be mutual, of course. If there is a private owner who has no other idea, there is no idea how to repair it himself, then he can sell these premises to the municipality. The municipality can acquire them, obtain state support and make it a municipal resource.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u236	Thank you very much. The question is asked by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u237	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have a question for you. At a time of crazy cost and inflation for many young people, having their own apartment went to the realm of dreams. Do you have any concrete solutions to enable young people? In such a motivating sense The acquisition of municipal housing? I'm not just asking about local governments. Maybe you're planning some kind of special bill so that these people can pay. For renovations? Of course, such a building cannot only be demolished, it must be in such a state of technical condition that someone can do this renovation on his own. Do you have such strategic solutions for young people so that they can survive in their own M? The point is that these deserts shouldn't be empty to give this opportunity to young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u238	Our offer to Poles is quite wide. We are expanding this support all the time, as evidenced by the earlier item on today's agenda. There was a Ministry of Finance here and you were debating support for borrowers. The Polish government is trying to do as much as possible at this time to relieve borrowers of their loans. This is one of the solutions proposed at the moment, solutions for this difficult time. After all, we in this law also propose support for the production of housing, municipal and social housing and social housing, i.e. those with reduced rent, within the framework of TBS or SIM. A young man who can't afford to pay a instalment who doesn't have a credit rating will be able to take advantage of this offer under the SIM or TBS will be able to have a flat with low rent. Well, it requires a small contribution to the price of the apartment in general, but one way or another this contribution will have to be made. Such apartments will also be built. There are representatives of KZN in the room, who recently, last year and at the beginning of this year, together with 330 local governments, called for the existence of 30 SIMs. Each SIM will build approximately 1 000 apartments, which is about 30,000 apartments for those families with moderate incomes, for those families that do not qualify for municipal housing because they are perhaps too wealthy and who cannot afford to take credit. Here the offer is very wide. In fact, we are still wondering what other solutions can be applied. Even today, we've been debating in the back here about ideas that appear somewhere in a brainstorm like this. I also take your proposal today as such an idea in a brainstorm. Of course, we're going to write this down, and we're going to consider it if we don't find another solution. Because we're really looking for the best way to support young people so they can have their first apartment, or they can expand their apartment when there's a family. Please also pay attention to this program, which... Because that also answers the question of young people, the situation... Maybe the problem diagnosed last year or earlier, the problem of raising our own contribution to living in a credit-taking situation, it was actually a more important problem, it still exists, but now this problem has obscured us completely different problems. In any case, faced with this problem, that the young man had already had credit, but had not yet made his own contribution, we proposed an apartment with a guaranteed contribution of our own, this program, which is only now entering into force, because the law entered into force literally a few weeks ago. This program meets young people, those who buy their first apartment, or families who raise their children in a small area and want to expand the apartment to make it easier to get more children. This program also has these pro-family values, i.e. in the apartment without own contribution, including credit with guaranteed own contribution is also the possibility of family payments, 20 thousand for the second and 60 thousand for the next child. So we combine this housing policy with pro-family policy, we add these pro-family elements so that a young man or a young family, who will take a loan with a guaranteed contribution of their own, motivate them to start a family in the coming years or decide to have more children.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u239	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u240	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I would like to ask you a question, because I have been grabbed twice or even three times in your statements by the fact that you have the savings that you will be transferring to this programme. What's with the savings?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u241	These are the savings in the COVID fund that appeared in another ministry activity. Our Ministry, the Ministry of Development and Technology, has this part of the 18 budget that I am dealing with, and this is housing, that is construction, that is planning and spatial development, real estate management, and there is this part of the old Ministry of Economy, part of the 23 budget under which the Ministry carried out many projects, and there were savings. If you want to know the exact structure of these savings, we will give you an answer in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u242	Good. Therefore, the Minister has undertaken to make this reply in writing. You're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u243	Minister! Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll still be circling these deserts. Rightly, we do not know what the reason for not settling a given premises is, but a clue is what happened to refugees from Ukraine. They were absorbed like a sponge absorbs water, well, they have to live somewhere. So perhaps a large part of these deserts are simply empty premises, which by owners are treated as deposits of capital, no matter when built. And what I'm talking about is how to encourage owners like that, so maybe they don't get rid of these places as long as they've settled them, for example. by renting or occasional, or more connected with doing business, or simply getting rid of these premises. What do you think about the cadastral tax, but not from the first apartment or home, which is what we guarantee, because the family has to have a place to live, only from extras, from extras, from the luxury of housing in the sense of more housing, which family or person owns? How do I start these deserts that are fit to settle and which are treated as deposits of capital, because the burdens associated with such premises are less than the increase in the value of this establishment associated with inflation?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u244	Dear Sir, as I said earlier, we do not know exactly the structure of deserts in Poland. We'll probably get to know her better if the CUS presents these data more accurately. We also analyzed various solutions to the problem Because if there's a brainstorm, you analyze different solutions. But we have certainly never analysed one solution: a cadastral tax understood as a universal property value tax. We're just not gonna do that, we're not gonna do that. We have analysed solutions related to the threat, which, say, still function, although it is not large in Poland so far, but we have this situation in Berlin, where investment funds are owners of tens or hundreds of thousands of apartments. Even in a referendum last year, the Berliners spoke against this situation and obliged the government to act in this regard. We would certainly like to avoid this kind of situation in the future, and therefore we have analysed various solutions, including tax solutions, but so far we do not propose such solutions. We're watching the market and right now we're focusing on the support of local governments, the renovation of the deserts, because it's so quick... I mean, it's a reserve that you can run, and here are these apartments that local governments can renovate. I'm gonna refer to what you said about this capital locker. Well, if someone's putting capital in real estate, they're gonna put that capital to make money on it. And that usually involves the person who buys the apartment, then rents it to make money on it. Yeah, well... [[Or anti-inflationary, Minister.]] But, anyway, we don't have any information about the kind of phenomenon you're talking about being on a large scale. In addition, logic suggests, and so are observations, that people actually placed capital in apartments on the one hand to place this capital in some other way, not in a bank, not in bonds, just in apartments, but on the other hand to rent it And they're taking advantage of the current situation where there's not enough rentals, they rent and earn the right money.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u245	Thank you. The question is asked by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u246	Thank you, Minister. You intrigued me with this covid fund. In the current situation we have a huge health debt among Poles due to excess mortality, because there were 200,000 deaths in the course of a pandemic. It seems to me that such money marked for the fight against COVID and, what to say here, with complications associated with COVID should be for health, and the state is moving this money from the covid fund...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u247	No, we're not moving that money from health care in any way. This is the money saved by the Ministry of Development and Technology in the part of the Economy.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u248	In the part of the economy, yes? And you don't think... [[But it was said that it was meant to be...]] It's called a covid fund. You said the money... Senator Poor asked about the source of funding for desert management.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u249	Ma'am, well, I could... Now, if you'll excuse me... I can talk here for hours about what support the Ministry of Development and Technology has provided for the economy, but I do not know if this is the subject of today's proceedings. But this support for businesses, the support for the economy in recent years, the COVID has really been on a large scale and we could do a really good debate where we could talk about how we have supported the economy, how entrepreneurs have benefited from it, how we saved jobs and so on. It's a lot of different actions...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u250	But that's not what I'm asking. I ask if any money from the covid fund for health has been transferred to these tasks.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u251	No. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: No. Thank you.]] No, no.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u252	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u253	I'll borrow the card from a friend of mine... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I've got this... Oh, there he is. Minister... [[The question is one minute, it seems...]] But... Excuse me, but you have a clock, so... [[55 seconds...]] [[It was five minutes. Didn't you see the clock?]] Really, Senator, like we don't have any other problems. [[Mr. Senator, get to the point.]] Here's the question. Minister, this problem is very serious in many countries, but most of all it sounded in Germany, where investment funds buy entire housing estates. There have already been several such transactions in Warsaw, in large cities. Are we monitoring this? Of course, these funds buy apartments to rent them quickly, but then it's a question of price. Today the Germans have a huge problem, buying out or trying to buy out, expropriating these funds. The point is not to make such a mistake as the Germans are facing today. Do we monitor the size of such transactions? And the second question is, do we have any idea of stopping it at all if it were to develop? The point is not to make the mistakes of the 1990s that were made in the Federal Republic of Germany. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u254	Yes. We monitor it all the time. We're looking at it carefully. Like the senator said, in recent years, there have been several or several transactions of this kind. Mostly not all transactions... Most of the transactions concerned the purchase of investments not in the built housing estate, but investments at the stage of the plan, at the initial stage. These are investments made, as the senator noted, for rent. In general, in the market for such institutional rentals of various funds, the largest share at the moment is the state-owned real estate company PFR, which builds housing for rentals. All over Poland, in various parts of the country, such settlements arise. Granted, PFR Real Estate is not under the Ministry of Development and Technology, but I can say that these settlements have been on several such settlements, I visited them at the moment when they were opened are really well made. These are nice estates where young families live, which can also benefit from support in paying rent in the early years.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u255	Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u256	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I'd like to ask you a question like this. The amendment proposes that the counties should also be able to apply for financial support from the Donation Fund. I wanted to ask you where this came from. Were there any votes on the part of the powiats, district governments, so that they would also be supported?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u257	Yeah, there were these voices from the county, which is why we turned them on.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u258	That was the last question. Then thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Thank you very much.]] I would like to inform you that a government representative has undertaken to give a written answer to the question asked by Senator Halina Poor. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the Senators: Sweden, Świlski, Godyla, Gromek, Gorgon-Komor, Bubbles and Jazłowiecka have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Law amending the Construction Law and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 736 and the report of the Commission In print No 736 A. I'm asking the committee's rapporteur... I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Arthur Dunin, to present a report to the Committee on Infrastructure and then to request a minority of committees. Excuse me, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much. You're welcome. I'm not angry, believe me. On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, which took place on 28 June 2022, I would like to give you great respect for the decisions made at the committee's meeting on the Construction Law and some other laws, in print No 736. The Act deals with the introduction of a further stage of digitization of administrative processes in the field of construction and provisions enabling citizens, investors to keep a construction log and document works in electronic form. Ladies and gentlemen, the law primarily concerns what I think we all want, which is why the law was supported. But it is really about digitization, modernisation of the construction and improvement of the investment process. That is why we have here the establishment of an electronic construction log in the electronic system, the establishment of an electronic building book, the establishment of an electronic building book, which is very important. The e-Building Portal, the introduction of the Central Register of Persons with Construction Powers, the possibility of obtaining in compliance with the requirements of fire protection, created in electronic form: design of land or land development, architectural and construction design, technical design and design of the fire-fighting device. Normality. That's how it's supposed to be. During the debate during the committee's work, the Government Party tabled an amendment which was taken over and voted positively by me. The Legislative Office also proposed amendments, Mr Maciej Telec presented these amendments, 2 of which were accepted positively, 2 appear as minority proposals. Thank you very much... Of course, I recommend that you adopt the entire bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u260	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I don't see any calls. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Development and Technology has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Again Minister Piotr Uściński. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u261	Dear Marshals or gentlemen of the Marshals! High Senate! I am very pleased to be able to stand before you here and talk with such a law, because the law is going in a very good direction: the digitisation of the construction process. We want Polish constructions to be modern, we want the whole construction to be modern, hence many deregulation ideas, many improvement ideas. In this respect, there are improvements in the digitalisation of the digital construction log, that there will be a digital form of a building book, that we will have again a digital electronic database of building authority entities, but there will also be information about the various penalties for exclusion from the profession or others who have received such persons. On the one hand, this will allow access to this community, to officials in the old-age districts or to bodies related to construction, and on the other hand, there will be no need to show such documents each time confirming participation in the Chamber or having building rights. There are some minor improvements that will help in the construction process. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask the High Senate to adopt the bill. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u262	Thank you very much, Minister. Maybe you should stay for a while, because the senators can now report from a place of no more than a minute of inquiry to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? Senator Komarnicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u263	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you're a young man... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Thank you for this compliment.]] I worked in construction for 54 years... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear!]] We're doing a thirty-sixth amendment. Haven't you thought about what's causing all this chaos? Because it's chaos. Wouldn't it be worth once to sit down and make a law out of a real event, like in those countries that you so often criticize, where there are only superficial changes due to change and modernity?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u264	You know, I basically agree with the approach that we should have a great new law that's going to normalize everything from the beginning, but please note that this approach, I think, had a lot of people, you, me, and many of my predecessors, and previous governments, and during the Civil Platform the amendment of building law was A little more, I guess. [[No.]] This is where you calculated 36, but there was a very comparable number behind the Platforms. It's just a new... [[Come on, gentlemen, don't bid here, just answer the question.]] Anyway, we're correcting this bill. We're trying to make sure they're the best possible solutions. We are trying to eliminate those solutions that are less favourable. We try to make deregulations, as it was by the way. introducing provisions for these houses up to 70 m2 of buildings with limited formalities. We try to respond to what is happening, what is expected by society, what problems the industry is facing. And I think our predecessors did the same thing. Of course, we should hope that someday all these changes that we are now making will be written in a new document that will be more orderly. But today I can say that I've been in the department for 10 months, perhaps this term would not be enough if we started preparing a completely new law and consulted it. However, what we can improve today is improving. And actually digitization is what we can do now, what we're ready to do, what the Chief Building Authority is ready for.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u265	Thank you very much, Minister. I admire your presence here, because the boss is ruthless, you have a name today, I think, and here you have to go to the Senate. But... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: My head Mateusz Morawiecki is not ruthless. He himself works very much and requires work from his officials...]] [[Voice from the room: Sure...]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński:... his ministers, Undersecretaries, Secretary of State. And today I am at your invitation, and even though I have a name, it is with great pleasure to be with you, with the High Senate, and as much time as it takes, I will spend so much time with you.]] Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Right now, you're gonna ask Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u266	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, if you have a name, of course I wish you all the best. I would not be interested in the number of amendments here, because this is a matter of what the amendment presents. Here we have a very positive amendment, for which, of course, I thank you very much, and I will fully support it. I have a quick question. I'd like to ask you about the scale. If the Minister has such information... How many building permits are issued annually? How many objects are put into service? I ask because this illustrates the scale to which we refer in this amendment through digitization, through these facilitations for investors.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u267	I don't have the data on me, I left it there somewhere, but I'll tell you from my memory that construction decisions last year were issued, two hundred and seventy-seven thousand. It's just from memory. If this number isn't accurate, we'll give you a written answer. But it's really a lot. There are a lot of investments in Poland, both cubatural and linear road investments. Well, we're in the parliament, so it's worth bragging about. This is largely due to the involvement of local authorities, the involvement of the public, but also because the government finances investments, because the government transfers money to local governments for road investments, highways are built, highways of rapid traffic, water supply, sewerage are built, because the entire economic situation of Poland has been improving for years. Poles also invest a lot in building their own homes, the number of decisions made on their own homes is growing steadily. Well, in general the number of buildings built has increased since 2015. In 2015, less than 150 000 apartments were put into service. Last year it was 235 thousand apartments, so these investments are increasing. In the case of apartments, this is a 60% increase. As for linear or road investments, especially those concerning municipal and district roads, I think there may be very large increases here too. Construction is simply developing, and the digitisation of the construction process will only help to do so. It's about doing these constructions efficiently. [[Mr. Marshal, if I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u268	Well, ask briefly, because Senator Czerwinski is in line. [[Let him ask.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u269	Yeah, yeah, I'd just like to ask. Thank you very much for your answer, of course. In the light of the arguments put forward by the Minister, it is all the more clear that the issue of electronicisation will be very important. But if I could ask for a written reply... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Good.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u270	The question is now asked by Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're in favour of digitizing the whole thing, I'd call it an administrative circuit, of course, if you can. This is where the e-Building portal is to be created, in general, for the exchange of documentation. But will it also store the data that should be, let's assume, private and always available, i.e. for which the storage period must be more or less such as the durability of the building? Well, it's not a few years. Generally speaking, the optical medium or flash drive will last 10 years, but it will be stored, I understand, in the cloud. First of all, who's gonna be able to put that data in that cloud? Secondly, how can we be sure that they will be permanent in this cloud in the sense that they can be downloaded at any time without any problems, without complications? 'Cause we can laugh at paper, but paper has a lifetime of a few hundred years, it's about as long as it lasts. like well-made buildings. The question is: what is the issue of data sustainability?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u272	Sir, as far as data stored in electronic form is concerned, you've come to the right place with your inquiry, because I'm an electronics from basic education. Data in electronic form can be stored indefinitely, although they can change their media. Well, the data carriers are essentially exchanged, so there is no problem with archiving in the case of electronic data. As you said, data in paper form will survive depending on how they are stored, tens, hundreds, even thousands of years. We have old prints, very old documents. The documents generated today in theory could also survive so much. The question is whether these documents generated today should be archived for so long. With so many paper documents, they're archived... well, we know what it looks like, what the archives look like in the ancients, in the municipalities. Archives in old buildings or building surveillance offices are bursting at seams. I was an old man, and I know how hard it is to shove all these construction projects in paper form. The whole administration is struggling with what to do with old documents. Just because they can theoretically last hundreds of years doesn't mean they're going to survive that much. It's gonna have to be destroyed because it's taking up too much space. In the case of digital data, there is no such problem at all. Digital data is stored in a much smaller space. So far we have no problem that there is no space in the world, no physical space to store digital data. They're compiled in a small space. And when it comes to the security of this data, it's an important issue. Well, in the case of data stored digitally, their electronic security is very high. This data is stored in multiple copies, stored in one city, in another city... In case... I'm not gonna talk any more, 'cause we might as well figure that out. In any case, digital data is stored in such a way that even then, with one location Something's going to happen, they were somewhere else. In the case of paper data, it is not that simple, because it would have to be copied, copied. The digital data is copied, just in case, easy to store so that it's safe. And the time that will be stored... Well, it's probably not gonna be a problem in our lifetime. Maybe someday, in the future, people will start to get rid of too much stored digital data, but so far there is no problem with that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u273	Thank you very much. The list of questioners has been exhausted. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology Piotr Uściński: Thank you very much. I'm gonna ask you to pass the bill again.]] And I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that Senator Arthur Dunin will be the first to speak. I will only remind the honourable state that at 5 p.m. I will announce a recess at 5 p.m., so if you have 2 speakers recorded, you will be able to fit in, that's good.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u274	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. I promise I won't, I won't spend all my time and not one speaker, and a few more will be able to perform. Ladies and gentlemen! As for the construction law that we are now discussing, I would like to tell you that I very much regret... And this is where I address you, Minister. You remember that print, Minister... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Do you remember that print from January 23, 2020? I'll show you. All the amendments that are included today in the bill from this submission, we proposed to you in 2020 2 years ago. Two years ago, you could have done it. Why did you wait so long? Why didn't you allow good solutions to be put in place much sooner? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Because it was the Civic Platform's amendments, I understand. Great, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, of course we will support this project because it is important for modernity and speed of action, as I said as the rapporteur. But let me add that we also had a discussion at the committee meeting and a certain amendment was not supported, which is why I will now allow this amendment to be tabled to the hands of the marshal. You know who it is, what it is. I'm not gonna explain it so I don't prolong it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u275	Thank you very much. Senator Władysław Komarnicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u276	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Minister! As I said before, this is already the thirty-sixth amendment of the building law. Unfortunately, in your reigns And one of the most important conditions for the development of a modern and rich economy is above all the stability and transparency of the law. Stability and transparency of the law. If in the last 7 years of your government you change construction law 36 times, which is one of the most important laws, then in fact Poles, especially those responsible for construction, have a feeling of legal instability. And there's inflation. On the other hand, in terms of the subject of the electronicisation of the investment process itself, in the last year and a half we have already examined the third amendment of the construction law. Minister, isn't it really possible to do this properly and approach the subject as a whole? I want to remind you right now, Minister... I have to tell you, I've been critical before. And even personally, as Prime Minister Donald Tusk, I told him about the need to do construction law once and properly. So I don't criticize it. Only today, when you're here, I've been criticizing this approach for 20 years. However, I would like to remind you... the Senator rapporteur has made it clear, and I confirm that, as a coalition, of course, we support these changes in the investment process. But let me remind you that our 2020 amendments, which you are now implementing, have been and waited until two years. It is, as I love God, a great pity for Poles when it comes to time. It's two years. For God's sake, do you think we put them together in anger? Is that why you rejected them all, even though they were right? Sometimes you admit it now by proceeding over this bill. Like kids, after anger, because it wasn't us. Why aren't you making changes comprehensively, in its entirety, so that the participants in the investment process have a more stable and transparent law, just a little bit? As usual, it's called construction. It's just crap. You want this amendment, among others. enter an electronic building log and a building book, regulate the e-construction portal and enter a central register of persons with building rights and penalties for professional liability, introduce fire protection arrangements in the form of an electronic land development project, so-called. architectural and construction project, technical project and fire-fighting project. It is proposed to introduce a single register of persons with building rights in which persons who have been authorised after 1995 will be registered from the vending machine. Persons who have acquired the right before this year will be able to register in the register. The date of entry into force of these provisions is 1 August 2022. It's a term, Mr. Minister, I'd like to draw your attention. It's really unreal. These figures relate to thousands of people, so it takes months for them to be transferred to the register. Currently, the Ministry is discussing the introduction of BIM technology, i.e. building information modeling, the technology in which industry works on one model and buildings are designed comprehensively, while participants in the investment and construction process can then bring changes in real time, which increases the transparency of the project and, of course, facilitates communication. This is also the implementation of our amendment. I remind you, Minister. The year 2020 which you rejected at the time. I was speaking at the time, just as I am taking it today. I ask: when will such design be required by law in Poland? In many countries this is already a standard. It is a pity that, in 2020, when we tabled this amendment and the previous amendments, they were rejected by the government. But, as I see it, you've seen their validity, and now you're doing it. Better late than never. The electronic construction log is a long-awaited element of state digitization. However, we are worried about the fact that building logs, even if they were to be electronic, are being assumed less and less in Poland, Minister, because they are building less and less. The investment is very severe. In the first 4 months of 2022 the number of construction permits decreased, especially in the housing sector, Ladies and gentlemen, attention, as much as 22.6% compared to this period last year. Minister, from the newly published data of the CSO, it can be seen that the construction market in Poland is severely inhibiting. And it's not just housing that's gonna be less. The cost of materials increases enormously, there are no employees, there are no contractors. All this can be partly explained by external factors, because it is possible to say, and beautifully it is always said by your boss: it is war, yes, war, the fault of the Germans and Tusk. But it's your sole responsibility, and you're not getting out of it. Ladies and gentlemen, the United Right has come out with a huge tax disorder, which has caused construction companies to fall one by one today. It is entirely your fault that our economy has missed a powerful investment boost. Let me remind you, EUR 4.6 billion in advance to KPO. Wherever you look, you don't build that money. Thousands of cheap apartments are not built for rent, tracks are not built, after which young people from excluded areas could reach college, wind farms and new networks capable of collecting excess energy from the popular photovoltaics in Poland are not built. On the other hand, where there are investments, contractors today place ultimatums on investors: 20% or even 30% of the value of the project or we are leaving the construction site. And this is also, unfortunately, your fault, specifically Mr Glapiński, who is completely unable to cope with the inflation galloping in Poland. Today, Minister, I ask you as a man who is 54 years old in construction: what if the building logs are electronic in Poland when they are empty? And finally, with your wishes, Minister, I would like to ask you to go out with your boss and go to that country you don't like so much, Germany. That's where I ran 24 years of my company, construction. Guess what. It's been there for decades. It's the same building law. And this, Minister, on your name day, I wish you well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u277	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u278	Dear Senator, you said you used your statement to do it properly. This bill, this digitization has been prepared by GUNB properly. We are prepared, GUNB has solutions prepared. The bill will enter into force, they will be launched. Don't worry, I have to assure the employees of GUNB that the registers will be run and implemented in due time. Perhaps this would not have been the case if two years ago no changes had been made to the bill written on the knee. What you do on your knees sometimes doesn't work. And if this... That's what happened in your rule and in ours. It's better to do something right. This has been properly prepared. I'm still talking about the amendment you made, but he didn't tell me about it. I'm just gonna say two words. I hope I understand the content of this amendment well, i.e. not the content of the amendment, but the intention of the amendment. [[It's a cross-cut...]] The aim is to remove from the bill the possibility for the investor to block access to the construction log to a professional participant, e.g. A surveyor, contractor or construction manager... [[Construction manager...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] We do not introduce anything that is different from the reality that is present. Currently, an investor can do the same with a printed journal. He can take it from the construction site at any time and tell the manager: Mr. Manager will no longer make an entry here because I've changed the construction manager to another one. It could include a surveyor or someone else. If the investor changes the contractor, he will change the service provider, then he will give someone else the opportunity to enter. The entries in the building log are only meant to confirm... It is necessary that they be carried out at the time when the operations were carried out. If the surveyor does something, if the construction manager finds anything on the construction site, he should put it in the construction log right now. It has nothing to do with the settlements. You say it's gonna block your investor settlements. It's not gonna block the settlements because the construction log doesn't confirm the settlement, it just confirms the facts on the construction site. If that's the case, if it's happening somewhere like this, for example. The surveyor doesn't enter any activity into the construction log until the investor pays it, it's against the rules. This should not be the case... the investor must be able to change the participant in the construction process. The electronic construction log guarantees one thing: that there will be no anti-dating of entries and there will be no current practices, that the construction log is actually supplemented by the manager or by someone else only after payment. Perhaps that's what it is. Perhaps you know that's how it works. If that's how it works, it's bad. An entry shall be made in the log when the construction operations are carried out. This has nothing to do with the settlement. So that the request to you not to accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u279	Thank you very much. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Infrastructure Commission to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u280	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I kindly inform you that the joint meeting of 2 committees, the Committee on the Environment and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, on the examination of the proposals for the Act on Environmental Protection and some other laws on Senate Print No 743 will take place tomorrow, 30 June, at 9:45 p.m. in room 217. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u281	Thank you very much. We're adjourned until 8:30. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 01 to 20 minutes 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u282	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the act on support and rehabilitation of minors. The text of the Act is contained in print No 741, and the report of the Commission In print No 741 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u283	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will admit that reporting on this law is a very difficult function, a law on which a statement was made in the opinion of one of the experts and referred to an article. 72. 2 The Constitution of the Republic of Poland, which says: The child deprived of parental care has the right to care and help public authorities. The law aims primarily at punishing as a tool for social justice, which is not understood by its subject. Another expert says: "The law should change the title from the Act on the support and rehabilitation of minors to the Juvenile Penitentiary Act. This is a difficult case in which 3 committees, listening to a government proposal to support and rehabilitate, heard properly and read The new juvenile detention code, with fewer than 5 000 children per 0.5 million who go to school and do not cause educational problems today. This law does not recognise that there is a law in Polish law on supporting the family and the foster care system, according to which the failing families are assisted by the family. He does not notice the law on the prevention of violence in the family, according to which municipalities, powiats and voivodships are obliged to diagnose the phenomenon of violence, various types of pathology in the family, to counter this phenomenon, to appoint interdisciplinary teams that help to enter the family and actually support it, including support a child who, after all, not from a happy family, goes to the whole educational system other than the family. This law is indeed a law that we might call modern in the 19th century. In the 21st century, we cannot agree with any of her records. This law was supposed to replace an age-old law, that's right, a 40-year-old law from 1982 on juvenile proceedings. This beautiful title of support and rehabilitation has nothing to do with the provisions of its legislation. Moreover, this supposedly-modern law actually duplicates in most cases the provisions of the law that it amends. What does it change? It establishes that a ten-year-old can already be brought before a court and can be prosecuted for corruption. This law says that a criminal act, today referred to in 12 points, is something much more than what is set out in today's laws, and extends the definition of a criminal act so that not only does the Code decide what is and what is not a crime, but also a regulation and other non-Codex acts. This law states that school heads will be able to apply to pupils who exhibit depravity measures of educational influence which are currently reserved exclusively for the family court. Today it changes existing youth sociotherapy centres and youth education centers, which are subject to the Minister of Education... There is another type of closed centre, which is a correction facility under the Minister of Justice. The law changes this order of things and says: Today, a youth educational center will become a district educational centre under the responsibility of the Minister of Justice, just as a correction facility. Who do you put in this facility? Minors who have committed criminal acts that are exhaustive in the nature of the offence, but who may also include minors who have not committed criminal acts, but who have refused to carry out the measure in the form of placing it in a youth educational centre. In a word, in those submissive ministers of justice... As the Minister pointed out during his speech, there is such a sequence: a youth educational centre The district educational centre It's a penitentiary. This is a technological sequence where this system has an insubordinate, unlivable upbringing in society. So in such a facility, in the district educational center, there will be also a truant, and a young man who has attempted suicide or is addicted to alcohol or other drugs, or is aggressive, and no one comes, for what reasons. In this law no one gets the cause of the phenomenon, no one notices the law on supporting the family, the law on preventing violence in the family A minor who has committed a crime or offence shall be noted. And that's the only way to treat less than 5,000 children. Come on. The Act provides that a family court ruling on the placing of a minor in a correctional institution may extend his stay there until the age of twenty-four is over. It regulates in detail the rights of a minor to a defender throughout the proceedings. But here's the problem, because the only defense attorney is someone he made a deal with. This was pointed out by the legislator, asking for a change of this provision and saying that not a lawyer, and that a lawyer or counsel should defend the interests of a minor in legal proceedings, in the whole process, in a word, so that the child would not be alone to defend his interests. The Act shortens from 2 to 1 hour stay in the fresh air of a minor resulting from his right to stay in the open air. What I'm saying is that in prisons, adults are entitled to a two-hour outdoor stay. The Act allows the inclusion of minors in the so-called. adaptation chambers and isolation chambers. The time of isolation in the first one is 15 days, and in the second one 48 hours, but in the case of both, the rules do not provide for access to daylight. Imagine a 13-year-old for 14 days in an adaptation room like this, without contact with adults, without contact with her peers. 14 days! Furthermore, the possibility of direct coercion measures is envisaged: handcuffs, safety straitjacket, restraint belts, safety helmet. All of this can also be applied to minors who have a moderate disability. In one of the studies, we read these terms, and I will quote them to you... Because even though we were told that the law was consulted with psychologists and educators, it reads: "A complete omission of developmental psychology and special pedagogy results in a special way from the provisions of the law, in which the possibility of directing children with moderate intellectual disabilities to rehabilitation is enshrined. The legislator did not take into account that the maximum level of mental development of an adult person with moderate intellectual disabilities does not exceed the level of a fully healthy seven - an eight-year-old and her maximum level of social maturity is ten-year-old. In the light of the above, the expert considers the proposed provisions to be totally unfounded and harmful to the child, and the expert is Dr. Mariusz Dobiański, assistant professor at the University of Białystok, director of the Youth Education Centre in Jaworek, president of the National Association of Rehabilitation Workers, so the person who is engaged in rehabilitation and working with children on a daily basis. This law has not been taken into account by the authors. During the legislative work in the Sejm, minority proposals were submitted to this law. They're all gone. I will not mention all of them, but a few of them so, because they are significant for authors and intentions introduced by the provisions of this law. Removal of the provision empowering the Director to apply to minor educational measures 3 minority applications. Nobody wants the principal to be a judge. The director is a friend of the child at his home school, not his judge and performer, or a guardian of the execution of the sentence. Ladies and gentlemen, another minority request: a change to remove the right of the court not to appoint an ex officio defender to a minor. The Act grants the court the possibility not to appoint a defender from the office of a minor. A grown-up criminal is entitled to a lawyer, not a minor. Come on. An interesting request from a minority to ensure that censorship or detention of correspondence between a child who is unattended by his/her loved ones, because in a facility, it must take place after the notification of the family court. This provision is proposed by the Members. Most of them reject it, most of them reject it. Shortening the maximum duration of a minor's stay in the adaptation chamber • I'll remind you, there's no need for daylight From 14 to 5 days. The motion's gone. We're punishing adult victims with this bill. More than 4,000 children, less than 5,000 children not socially adapted, in need of adult support, are victims of adult educational failure. We don't support these kids. We're punishing them. There's not a word about child support. There are only child repression measures in place here. If someone believes that the punishment of flogging will teach them nothing, they're wrong. The punishment of flogging will only teach the whipping of a child that violence can do anything in life, nothing more. The Supreme Board of Control has identified our rehabilitation system as completely inefficient. 70% pupils leaving these centres It seems that rehabilitation is returning to them and is not doing well in adult life. These people are not alone in society, they are not. They're going back to prison. A monthly stay in a correctional facility is the cost of 60 thousand PLN, ladies and gentlemen, 60 thousand PLN. There are penitentiary facilities in which there are less than 10 pupils and 60 staff in the centre. I'm not saying rehabilitation is cheap, but let's make it effective. Since so far closure and rehabilitation have been a matter of isolation, it is high time to wake up and say no, rehabilitation means restoring people's ability to live in society. How do we want to socialize children in isolation? Which of the latest pedagogical trends, which of the psychological studies confirms your theory that isolation, also from the nearest ones, will have a socialization effect? Which one? From the speech of the secretary-general... yes, I think... I'm sorry if... there was a current secretary-general of the Polish Psychological Society who protested against the implementation of this law. She protested. You also protested a professor who claimed to have children locked up in psychiatric facilities with the possibility of extending their stay by the court for three months. Except these three-month cycles can last forever. How can you imagine socializing a ten-year-old with an 18-year-old in a youth education facility? Why do you want establishments that are underfunded, whose employees have no chance of getting a good salary and where they work really hard and where there is no chance of individualising this process because we don't have the money? Really, our country can't afford to have less than 5,000 children... I say, these are the victims of our adult incompetence. Instead of socializing and rehabilitating in an individual way, under friendly conditions, not in isolation from your parents... Maybe parents need to be socialized on this. Nine-year-old, eight-year-old, seven-year-old child doesn't know he's raised in a pathological environment, because it's an environment where you drink, where you steal, where you do thousands of bad things, it's a natural environment. It's just us adults, through the family assistant, through the whole welfare system we've been building to support the family, we've got to help this kid, take care of his family. What do we do at this time? The Minister of Justice actually brings us the law on the houses of the Bis. I really don't agree with that. During the debate, my motion to reject this law, because it cannot be corrected, supported: Senator Ewa Matecka, Senator Borusewicz, Senator Zdrojewska, Senator Martynowski had huge doubts as to whether we should actually bring a 10-year-old girl to trial. All opinions, the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, the ombudsman, other organizations, are not in favour of this law, they sometimes talk about the use of torture against young people. How can we submit a proposal other than this to the House? Let's drop this bill. And also a request to the Ministry of Justice: if you really want to rehabilitate, work with professionals employed in both rehabilitation and socialization, work with the scientific community, reach for the latest psychiatric, pedagogical, rehabilitation thoughts, and not after the nineteenth century or earlier stocks. The committees are asking for this bill to be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u284	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's duration to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator, explain to me... Because you just regretted for five minutes that minority applications were allegedly rejected, and you yourself filed a motion to reject this law. Were these minority proposals put to the vote? And can we even use the concept of rejection here? Because you... [[No...]] ...made a motion to reject the bill that they were not put to the vote. So what did you regret?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u286	Perhaps I haven't been very precise about what I said. These minority proposals were made at the seymical stage. I wanted to say that in the Seym, such requests for this bill were dropped and all of them were rejected. Their contents are very important, Senator. Because asking a child to have a defense attorney throughout the trial isn't extremely weird. This claim was rejected. So the principal wouldn't be a judge. The minority's rejected request. To punish in solitary, out of daylight... Because the rules are so formulated that they don't require daylight. Fourteen, thirteen, ten-year-old... I'm sorry. Well, I know you're... I'm a little surprised you're waving your hand at this, sir, because I can't. I can't wave my hand at it. The legislator pointed out to us that it was only after the 200th article that this law talks about human dignity. Everything else is actually subject to a criminal who is to be rehabilitated, but he's already convicted, that's already a criminal, that's it, we've decided: we're gonna separate him, we're gonna lock him up. And then he has the possibility: youth education center, district education center, correction facility, penal facility. Well, sorry, that's the process of producing a bad word, but I can't find another one right now. The kind of kids that need our support. Support. No child is born evil, none. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski is still...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u287	I see the senator. And you're welcome, Senator, to ask you a question. Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u288	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I see you can see me. High Izbo, Senator, we are already clear that this was about minority proposals in the Sejm. But we're in the Senate. I'm all the more surprised. Imagine that now the situation will be that if you support, as at the committee meeting, here, in pleno, the motion to reject this law, he will return to the Sejm and there will be only a zero-one choice: either we reject this senate proposal, which is very likely, in the Sejm, or we accept it. This bill will not be able to be improved. You have rightly stated that some elements of the "I don't know," this threshold of 10 years is debatable and can possibly be improved. If you accept a motion for rejection in its entirety, nothing can be improved, not even those issues that the Ministry has agreed to. I believe that these were legislative issues, but not only substantive issues can also be discussed. But if something cuts with an axe, it can't be improved. And here's the thing: on the one hand beautiful words, very nice lecture just now, and on the other hand reality squawks... [[Question, question, time's up.]] [[Time, question, Senator.]] Czerwinski screeching just now. That's just how it is, that's how it's gonna be. And this bill will either come out as it came to us, or it won't come out at all, which is unlikely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u289	May I? Mr. Senator, I strongly disagree with the philosophy that because the Sejm has accepted or the Sejm will eventually reject, the senators should agree to what they have no right to agree to, in my opinion. It's a bad philosophy, Mr. Senator. The Senate is a separate chamber that has a duty to repair what is to be repaired. And here nothing can be repaired, because the philosophy of this law is completely different from the philosophy of today's rehabilitation. It's a juvenile punishment bill, punishing minors in an absolutely cruel way. I really can't imagine my kid crossing the lanes on a red light, and this is a misdemeanor... And he could already fall under this whole system. He's 10 years old, he's gone... Well, imagine, solitary. In a moment, the Minister will say that it is impossible that ten-year-olds will not be subject to this. And children with moderate intellectual disabilities can? And who said that the ten-year-old we're bringing to justice can't get into the modes of this bill and suddenly be replaced by the modes of this bill? There are rules that are worse for children than those laid down for adult offenders in prisons. One hour in the air? One? Five days solitary, no daylight? Because the rules are so designed that daylight can't be. You want me to be the executioner so I can say, "Listen, why don't we trade those five days of solitary for 48 hours?" Twelve-year-old, 48 hours, no light. You're welcome, not to mention a ten-year-old. Well, ladies and gentlemen, where is the dignity of man? I will remind you of the Charter of the Rights of the Child, remind you of the Convention on the Rights of the Child, Poland was its initiator, co-author. We are proud of Polish pedagogical thought. We are proud of the Polish thought of rehabilitation. Why should we be executionals for children? For those who did not want to read, did not want to ask, offer us a set of punishments, for that is all they can do? True knowledge is knowledge of causes. Has anyone here thought about the cause? Has anyone seen that we have really introduced legislation that supports the family for decades since 1982, but especially in the last 12 years? Does anyone in the records use these laws? No, no, no, no. This is a new system. We're gonna take you, young man who's gone red or you're in trouble because you've been a witness since you were born, and we're gonna put you in jail. That's it, period. And when you're 18 or 24, you'll come out and be a full, good, well-organized, socialized member of our society. It's impossible. That's why we have no achievements in rehabilitation. That's why we spend the sums we don't know what, and the effects are mediocre. Even that should wake up the Minister of Justice, I'm sure. But the most important thing is to wake up the Minister of Education and the Minister of Family and Social Policy. I recommend that you accept the motion to reject this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u290	Thank you very much, Senator. Excuse me, now is the time for questions and answers... Senator Jazlowicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u291	Thank you very much. Thank you, indeed, for such a reliable presentation of the provisions of this law, a terribly disturbing presentation of this law. I understand perfectly, Senator, that she recommends rejecting this bill and does not agree to fix it, because, in fact, from what we hear, it is impossible to fix it. Senator Czerwiński pointed out that most likely this bill in this state will return to the Sejm and will most likely be adopted by the Sejm. I would like to ask if the senator knows which group of Members voted in favour of this law and who did not vote in favour of this law. I ask this because I would like to know which people, who, having their children, have their grandchildren, will still vote for this bill and be responsible for what is written there. [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u292	Thank you very much. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u293	Senator, I don't want to bring this to this division: some do, some don't. I am full of hope that the hasty work in the Seym It's common, because we're watching it, it's made not all of us think carefully. This is a comprehensive document, it counts 900 pages with justification. Therefore, the pace of the Parliament's work was affected, or perhaps the fact that these rules were only in the Committee on Justice, where people deal with law, code law, one, another, and not in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, were not included in the Committee on Education. In our case, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has had a huge part in the work of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Legislative Committee. So that maybe after this work in the Senate, there will be reflection. Because this isn't about division: my political views. It's about division: my attitude towards children. Everyone from Law and Justice... Well, family is mentioned in all possible ways, sometimes rightly, and sometimes it's a smoke screen. But I believe we care about children's future. So I don't believe that, after reflection, this bill will not be rejected. That's why I don't want to bring it in... Most of the ruling... We all know it's the United Right. We all know that the Minister of Justice represents other than the Law and Justice Group. What I particularly regret is the fact that the Ombudsman has found a lot of things to improve here, but the Ombudsman does not. I have my suspicions. I'll share them with you. The current spokesperson for the rights of the child was once chief or director of the department concerning juvenile cases, and I remember that when he tried to be the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, he said that he was working on a new rehabilitation bill. If this is the bill, then I misunderstand the way the child's welfare is perceived by today's Ombudsman, and I misunderstood the perception of young people, really our future, by the current management of the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u294	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u295	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator! I was really trying to help you in a way, because trying, I'd say, to get emotional... [[Help? About what? What are you helping with?]] ...trying to get emotional and climb higher and higher levels and the diaper won't do anything about it. This is really about very important issues related to the upbringing of children. And now, if in a few points, and the bill has 417 articles, you disagree... You mentioned these points, indeed, perhaps they are debatable. Well, in such a situation, it simply makes amendments and convinces itself of these amendments. But of course it is possible to use this method, that very much is said about it, sometimes also in front of the cameras, not in your case, to be clear. And then what? Coming up, I'd call it, all of it, there's a motion for rejection... [[Voice from the room: Mr. Marshal...]] [[It's been a minute that you had to ask, and the third...]] Great. [[...and you haven't asked him yet. I'm a megaliberal...]] That's what I'm asking now. [[I'm asking you a question, sir.]] Do you not think that this method is ineffective, i.e. submitting an application for rejection, because such a request is in the committee's report? [[May I?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u296	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u297	I believe, Senator, that I have a duty to respond to the wrong law. That's why I'm in the Senate. And that's how I took my vows. I believe it is my sacred duty to defend the rights of those who have full civil rights, although not always, because in these regulations, the civil rights of the youngest citizens, full-fledged, though underage, are broken. I have a duty to respond to that. I don't know any other way than to react to the wrong philosophy of a bad bill. Even the spirit of the law is evil here. It can't be improved.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u298	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. Thank you very much, Senator rapporteur. [[Applause]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. The Government representative wishes to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the Government. I'm not asking the question because I see the Minister is on his way... Therefore, please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u299	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Of course, I would like to take a position because, having listened to the full concern, I hope, to the Senator's speeches, and many speeches also during the deliberations of the committee, the joint committees... If I didn't know what I was coming to the High Senate with, I'd be terrified, ladies and gentlemen, I'd be terrified. Unfortunately, the state duplicates lies, manipulations, the state duplicates the thesis from media articles, which do not have the slightest reflection in reality, and have no connection with the normative text of the law that we are discussing, and have no relation to the proposals which the Minister of Justice submitted to Parliament and which were subsequently adopted by the Sejm and were sent to the Senate. A few examples. The State refers to experts, experts from outstanding experts, opinions ordered by the Senate for this bill, which also duplicate not really, Ladies and Gentlemen. We read in one of these opinions that a ten - year - old boy will be staying in one center with depraved 20 - year - olds and that such a ten - year - old will be further corrupted. That's not true. It is apparent from the text of the Act that there is no chance that a ten-year-old would be in the same facility with a 20-year-old. We heard in this emotional speech a senator spoke about rooms without light... [[Full of concern, not emotion.]] Care? This is a legitimate concern, because if I had believed those words, I myself would have asked you, ladies and gentlemen, to reject this law. But that's not true. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[You're welcome...]] Well, we have an art. 124 of the Act, Ladies and Gentlemen, where the conditions that should be provided within the rooms that comply with the standard of living rooms with windows, with lighting are clearly indicated. It's just not true. You're replicating media information that we're supposed to be chasing ten-year-olds, putting ten-year-olds behind bars. That's not true. Well, in the current state of law, there's no lower limit to liability... [[You don't knock a finger...]] We, Ladies and Gentlemen, introduce the right limit, set this limit, raise it from zero to 10 years for corruption. On the other hand, we do not break the line of responsibility for criminal acts. As is the current Juvenile Procedure Act, an outdated law, martial law, wrong, full of holes, full of holes, not fulfilling its purpose... That's why a few years ago, work was done to change this bill, precisely because of it. Ladies and gentlemen, in that law there is a record of the age of 13 in terms of liability for criminal acts. This is also what we leave in the act on supporting and rehabilitating minors. Ladies and gentlemen, I was convinced, going to Parliament, that political disputes, some political cravings would succeed, thanks to the concern of minors, the concern for children... And here I agree that the fact that any minor is in MOW, i.e. The young educational center, in the correctional facility, is the fault of adults, it is the fault that often these depraved children do not even know that they are corrupted because they come from such and not other environments. Yeah, okay. And that's why we're amending this bill, so that these pathologies that are now, currently, eliminated. Ladies and gentlemen, I was convinced that indeed we will all be discussing together, discussing how to improve the system. In Parliament, in the Seym there were voices and representatives of the Civic Coalition, and on the left side, sometimes of the extreme left, with which we cooperated in subcommittees... The representatives of the clubs said from the Seym Court, from the Seym Chamber: yes, it's a good project, but... Of course, I'll talk about it in a moment. They were able to read these 417 articles and were able to come to Parliament and say: yes, this is a project needed; yes, he is making many changes; yes, he is fulfilling international obligations, for which Poland does not yet meet the standards, resulting among others. the judgment of the European Court of Human Rights. Yeah, this project increases the guarantees for minors they don't have right now. Yes, this project introduces proceedings related to, for example, various interim measures within the framework of the European Court of Human Rights. Of course, there were a few doubts, there was a different sensitivity, there were proposals for some of the solutions that we discussed, but there they were able to say that this project contained good records. Unfortunately, here, I will not inquire, as it turns out, this is not my role, but another optics has been adopted. And this, of course, is the highest law of the High Senate and the state of senators, which I do not intend to question. But I'm gonna make a rehearsal... Despite my knowledge of the desire to reject the project in its entirety, I will try to show you that these are very good solutions, modern solutions, developed by a team of specialists. The work has been in place since 2017.2018. The band was complex... Not dominated by employees, not dominated by family judges, but composed of educators involved in rehabilitation, psychologists. Most of the members of the team who prepared the project and later wrote it in cooperation with experts were educators who benefited from the state-of-the-art achievements of science as part of the activities we propose here. And what are we proposing, Your Senate, the Dear Senators, in this project? Well, the whole package of changes to prevent minors from going to court. That's the intention of this project... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u300	Mr. and Mrs. Senators, please don't interrupt the Minister who says he's reporting. He has the right to present his position. We have the right to agree with him or not, but I ask you not to disturb the Minister, who does not offend us, is trying to convince us. If he succeeds, it's a different story, but I'm asking you to behave with dignity and not disturb me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal, for the mature conduct of the proceedings. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, ladies and gentlemen, this project has developed solutions leading to the deinstitutionalisation of the rehabilitation system. The less minors go to closed-type rehabilitation centers, the better. Hence the package of educational measures that a family court can impose, hence cooperation with the family, putting in front of the... This law applies to minors, i.e. people below a certain age limit, which we sometimes call children, who are in principle in the category of children, but to such minors, such persons who have already committed a criminal act or are already corrupted. Still, we decided to act in the pre-field, knowing that there is also a law on supporting the family and foster care that there are other system laws that work with the family, that there are family assistants. And these laws, of course, occur within the framework of the whole system of cooperation with the family and care for minors. In turn this law is composed of 3 different elements. First of all, it's called. actions on the pre-field, second, procedural actions, that is, judicial... This is a law that now replaces the Juvenile Procedure Act, which is a purely procedural law. We propose a law on supporting and rehabilitating minors, which will replace this law with a purely procedural one. And, of course, there's a third, executive part, which is everything that happens to a minor after a court ruling. But, ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of clarity: after the court ruling, which can use three basic tools, from educational means, there is a catalogue of educational measures by imposing appropriate obligations on the family, through cooperation with social organizations... The Sejm legislators even paid our attention to the fact that it should not be... well, it was about why we are exhibiting NGOs there, because the law refers to social organisations, including non-governmental organisations. Why are we exhibiting? That's because we think this is the right place to work with minors. Here, there are probation centers in this bill. There are also obligations that may be imposed on families, on various institutions in order to ensure that this helpful hand of the state is drawn out and to support minors, and that they do not go to youth education centres or correction centres, and then, unfortunately, to prisons or arrests. There is, unfortunately, no perfect system. Even in Scandinavian countries, minors are sometimes sent from juvenile systems to prisons and arrests. We in the framework of this law propose a package of flexible tools for those who can use it, for family judges, for the curators who praised... You heard it. The joint committees heard the voices of the curators who praised this bill, who even praised this limit for 10 years. They were talking about curatorial interviews with three or four-year-old children, about interviews that had to take place. Because someone scratched a car with a bicycle, family interviews needed to be done. That's what the president of the parole board was talking about. This law is praised by the workers of the correctional institutions, the educators involved in rehabilitation, the specialists and, above all, the family judges. It's a bill that's been expected for years, for these very reasons. First of all, it makes it possible to act with a minor in the pre-field, providing the entire support package so that this minor does not go before the court. Secondly, it sets out the full court procedure. The current outdated court procedure of martial law is derogatory to constitutional standards, and that must be made clear. Thirdly, there are clear guidelines here. This is the system bill for the various rehabilitation institutions that we have, as well as for curators, which are carried out in the conditions of freedom, and whose number is increased each year. This year we opened 10 more, already more than 100 curators centers in Poland. It is also a system act for youth educational centers and for district educational centers, for correction centres. The philosophy of this action, the philosophy that guided the authors of the project from the very beginning, from the very assumptions, from the work of the team to the works of the parliament, was concrete: to support minors. Because it is indeed the fault of adults that they are in the place where they are, and they have committed the deeds they have committed. We are not dealing with crimes, although there were such voices, also at the committee meeting. Some people were talking about criminals and stigmatization. You have to protest in situations like this. Well, there's no agreement, at least from my political background. Unfortunately, from other places such voices fell. When we adopted this philosophy of action, this was exactly what we wanted to stop the state machine at the lowest possible level to stop the state machine at the place where we could best help the minor. And thus strengthening the position of director, yes. In the current state of law, every case must be brought before the family court, each one. The judges are working on the fact that an eight-year-old boy pushed an eight-year-old boy. There are things, but I'm not going to describe it here. I could go into casuistics and use the next 18 minutes. It would of course be pointless to talk about what nonsense matters sometimes come into the hands of family judges, which cases they decide precisely in connection with the Juvenile Procedure Act. So the point is to keep these things as low as possible. For such a minor, the lowest level is, of course, a school. And that's why it's the director's authority, the power to use... The director can, of course, if we're not dealing with a criminal act, decide to reprimand a minor It may be sufficient for a reminder to apply the catalogue of measures referred to in Article. 4 of this bill, including clean-up work. But it will not be as some of these circles described it, deliberately exaggerating the issue and suggesting that there will be abuse here, that minors will even be tortured. However, this solution, ladies and gentlemen, was commended by the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights, which the State is so eager to refer to, of course, by pointing to certain elements of appeal, partly taken into account in these opinions. And what is the best guarantee that this tool will not be abused? The fact that the Director is not your master and master here is not a judge, as you repeat in some media. The Director may use these tools in cooperation with the parents only with the consent of the parents and only with the consent of the parents It's also a certain empowerment. That's the underage kid. If he doesn't want to wash the wall he's got on some spray or something, it's back to normal. There will be a police notification, there will be a request to the court, there will be proceedings, ordinary court proceedings. And in this basic option, of course, if he agrees to do the work, if his parents agree, if the director does, the case ends. We give a legal opportunity to close the case at this level. Of course, we need to continue working with this minor. Parents are number one, but often it's the school that has the best insight into these minors, towards their pupils. Not only students, but also pupils. The police will have similar powers, for example. Sometimes it's more sober than that. I'll tell you colloquially. The fact that he has to take part in a serious conversation is that he spends 15 and 20 minutes in such a serious, enlightening conversation with a police officer. Thus, it does not drag a minor into court for the next few months and sometimes several years. And in this respect, These are very good solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to strengthening the position of minors, in addition to deinstitutionalisation, in addition to the imposed package of tools for cooperation with minors, which is why we are trying to support minors in their return to the so-called. A normal society... In addition, of course, we are dealing with the most demoralized minors, with minors who commit the most disgusting acts mentioned in the article. Ten criminal codes, and for some reason the prosecution did not decide to conduct such proceedings as against adults, i.e. minors between the 15th and 17th years of age. These are brutal killings, these are rapes with particular cruelty. And, ladies and gentlemen, the bill also changes the model of action for these people. That is, it is proposed: in the first place, Your Honor, consider the correction facility in such a case. But again, it's not such a restrictive project that we stand with a stick and don't give the judge any discretion. Because it's the judge who knows best who he's dealing with, what kind of defendant he's got. It's the parole officers who know how to prepare environmental interviews, for example. And it is the judge's right to decide that such a minor will not, however, put him in the penitentiary despite the most serious crimes. Besides, we were criticized for the fact that perhaps too broad discretion would be granted to judges. But that's the way it has to be. That is, as a rule, a correctional facility, but of course the judge must always take into account another measure, which may prove to be more effective. And that is the principle, ladies and gentlemen, in the current Juvenile Procedure Act, and that is the principle that must be maintained in the Law on support and rehabilitation of minors. That is, the gradation of educational measures and correction measures. This shows, ladies and gentlemen, from the 1950s, exactly from the year 1955, that is, from the right period of the past. But in terms of the protection of the rights of the child, Poland had some achievements on the international stage, of course, at the Convention on the rights of the child ending. At that time, Poland was one of the initiators of activities in the UN, where the best models of action were indicated, which until today are actually implemented or recommended for implementation in all countries of the world. That is, to make these measures flexible in terms of change. If we see that someone in the probation center is well rehabilitated and is already, say, socialized, then why keep him in this probation center, it is enough to supervise responsible parents. Or the other way: if the responsible parent's supervision is imposed This obligation is not sufficient, then the conversion into a more serious measure must be obvious. And that's why this law is so wide, so this law provides for so many tools, as well as extreme possibilities not to close in the casuistics. And even if this were to apply to one case in 5 years or one in 10 years, it must be provided for in this law. 'Cause we're lucky to have fewer and fewer minors in the rehabilitation system, and here we're taking action... I mean, the Polish state includes its actions in the context of proceedings concerning minors, not 5 000 or 4 000 people, as we have just heard. Ladies and gentlemen, only last year there were 56,000 judgments, in respect of pending proceedings, in juvenile courts on the basis of the Juvenile Procedure Act. And within the framework of this 56,000 was just a few hundred judgments about staying in the penitentiary. At the moment, several hundred people are placed in rehabilitation facilities, in correction facilities, and four thousand 300 minors or four thousand 200 with a hook, it seems to be four thousand 256, is located in youth educational centres. Finally, we propose something that has been advocated for years by the community of family judges, by rehabilitation teachers who are involved in rehabilitation, by experts, this is the missing intermediate centre between the youth educational center, i.e., the most serious of educational measures in the current legal state, and the correctional measure, that is, the correctional plant. Hence the proposal to set up district educational centers. Because the black numbers quoted by the Senator in the Supreme Auditor's report are true, and that's pathology. And I'm gonna say this with full responsibility. In the youth educational centers. These are the places where a notorious dwarf is thrown into one bag, which is not supposed to be there, and a man who has a homicide in his account, but for some reason is not placed in a penitentiary. It's in the youth care centers every couple of years. And the scandal should already be one such case. For the murders between minors on the premises of the Centre. In 2020, there were three cases of this in the Lancut, the second in Wałbrzych, the third in another place of Poland. This pathology needs to be stopped immediately. Therefore, this law, which causes that people who are unfit for youth education centres should be transferred to a district educational centre so that rehabilitation, or actually socialization, is adapted to the level of demoralization of minors who reside in such centres. This law provides for this next to a whole package of various good solutions, smaller but important in a system, such as houses for mother and child. Incarcerated until the third year of age of the child is staying with this child, and underage mothers, and they do, do not have that privilege anymore. This should be clearly levelled. The other untruths that fell here were about an hour's walk. Art. The 112th Penal Code says the inmates are supposed to have at least an hour's walk. We in this bill don't reduce time. This is another media lie, which is unfortunately duplicated. From 2 hours to an hour. That is not true. Years ago, two hours were indicated in the Youth Centres Regulation. This provision has been repealed for years and these 2 hours are not in the Regulation. In turn, the Regulation on Corrections was at least an hour and at least an hour is transferred to the Act. It is not true that someone is taking away any privileges here. That's one thing. Secondly, it's at least a "at least." The real exception is the situation when the pupils are on a walk for an hour. They are usually much, much more and benefit from the possibilities that the rehabilitation facility offers them. High Senate, Dear Senators, ladies and gentlemen, referring to what I have said, I would like to straighten out the untruths that appear in public space and to inform you, also as the father of 2 daughters, that I am pleased to come with a law that raises the guarantees of minors vis-à-vis the state, which makes the state of minors able to take full care of the dignity and rights of minors, with full respect for the right to defend these minors, with full respect for the relevant constitutional guarantees. Thanks to this law, we move away from the outdated model introduced in the martial law, where the child is, unfortunately, nothing. This needs to be changed immediately. I am, of course, aware that you will seek to reject the law at first reading, as I heard at the joint committee meeting... I'm sorry, to reject the project, I heard. Nevertheless, I felt obliged to explain to you that the whole package of untruths appearing in public space simply does not have the slightest justification in reality and in the normative text of the law with which I come to the High Senate. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, High Senate. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u302	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u303	Minister, please answer me, how many percent of youth education centers and correction facilities go to prisons later? How many commit crimes at the age of... [[Voice from the room: Is there such data at all?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u304	Can I do it now? [[Yeah, yeah. You're welcome, Minister.]] Mr. Marshal was staring so hard, I thought he was still making up his mind. I'm sorry. [[No, no. My mind's already in the question.]] Youth educational centers subject in principle to local governments, sometimes social organizations... Once again, it is a habitat of pathology due to the wrong rules, and also by quite weak, scattered supervision, because here are three different supervisory institutions. This causes that rehabilitation is actually ineffective, because in one bag, colloquially I will say, various kinds of actions committed by minors and persons of different scale of demoralization are thrown in. ♪ And there's the return ♪ I'm talking about re-enactment is scary, because it's up to 80.90%. These centres are supervised by the Centre for Education Development, by curators, but above all run by local governments. The effectiveness of rehabilitation in correctional facilities, this return count... There are other statistics here. Return in other places is usually counted in statistics over 2 years and return in the case of minors is calculated over 5 years. And over the last five years, this return rate is about 40%. It shows that these facilities are just a lot more effective. On this occasion, I would like to point out that I was surprised to note that during the committee meeting it was pointed out what the right model was, when several pupils should be in the institution, and then I hear here in the High Senate that it is at all strange that he is in the institution of several pupils. And that's what this shows, and that's what it proves... this level of rehabilitation proves this... [[Minister...]] Senator, I'm sorry, but I can't... I don't want to introduce this ugly standard of screaming, especially in the Senate, famous for high culture. That's what... that's what's going on... that's what's going on here... that's what's proves, however, that the effectiveness of the implementation is much better, much higher, and we want it to be as good as possible. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u305	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u306	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You expressed your surprise at why there was a more substantive discussion in the Sejm. That's how I figured it out, maybe I'm wrong. than here, in the Senate, where it is proposed to reject this law in a categoric manner. Well, perhaps some, instead of reading the bill, read only the opinion of this law. I'm going to quote a few passages from one opinion, and it's a preamble or a recital. The author of the opinion questions part of this recital. Rzeczypospolita Polska surrounds the family with protection and support in education. And yet this is a constitutional record. Or to stress that as parents the legislator recognizes the mother and father of this kind of formulation will certainly be read as emphasising the heterosexuality of parents by the legislator. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time is up. Question.]] Constitutional records are being questioned... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Question, Mr. Senator.]] ...in this recital by the author of this opinion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u307	I have understood the senator's question, it seeks in this direction: why is it that there is based on expert opinions, which actually, at least in my opinion, as well as experts familiar with them, to be experts, well, rather they do not deserve, since in such basic matters as the text of the normative law simply passes away with reality, as I spoke about in the earlier phase, at this point, the procedure of this law. Yes, it is. Those who have doubts about the preamble say that... they refer to education, and here I want to emphasize it strongly, which is fully in line with the constitution and with the preamble of the Constitution, which is based on universal principles of ethics. And some people are offended that Christian values are also respected. Well, in that respect, actually... I think that in the current state of public debate in the context of such problems it is difficult to find certain consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u308	Thank you. I have a question, Minister. I would very much like to ask for a few names of the experts who worked for you. You just said there were experts who judged it. Three names.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u309	Dear Mrs Marshal, the head of the team is an outstanding family judge, one of the creators of institutions of family courts in Poland, Professor of the University of Szczecin, Professor Henryk Haak, undisputed authority in the field of juvenile proceedings. In the band, of course, there were educators, such as reformer directors, rehabilitation educators. There's no problem with a list of the names of these people calling your marshal. But what I can say is that... of course, all I can say is that it's clear. However, the Ministry of Justice also cooperates, with different results, with one of the experts, so-called. experts, appointed by the Senate, with Prof. Konopczyński. We were very disappointed that in our opinions, in our expertise... If it were to stop with pedagogical knowledge, it would be much better than to go directly against the law. However, in these studies there were cases, well, to be honest, embarrassing for someone who wanted to enjoy themselves as an expert. Therefore, certain question marks must appear in this respect. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Can you quote me now?]] But... Mrs. Marshal, well, we can ask questions, I understand that this is the formula, and that's the thing... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: No, well, I would like to know, I ask a question...]] ...that's what asking questions is all about. I didn't take the whole list, but of course the expert package... There were dozens of people in the band. Regardless of this, the law was three times in inter-ministerial consultations, it was actually addressed to all possible institutions. There's no problem with the senator, your marshal, delivering those names in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u310	I would very much ask you to deliver it in writing. And I have one more question: have you received written reports on this law? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Is your marshal asking about the state's expertise or others?]] The expertise you've been asking for. Because you've been working, as I understand it, among the experts. In addition, did you consult other experts in writing?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u311	The bill was... And that's what all the senators have been given. There is a list of dozens of entities, psychological, psychiatric associations, with which the law was consulted, by which it was consulted. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Did you receive in writing...]] Of course, we have received dozens of opinions from many institutions. And this is all part of the presentation that went to Parliament within these 900 pages. In the Impact Assessment there is a list of all experts who were pleased to evaluate this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u312	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u313	I have two short questions. Has the current Ombudsman of the rights of the child been working on this bill as a director at the Ministry of Justice? That's the first question. Two. In view of the fact that the Minister is questioning the expert opinion of Professor Marek Konopczyński, from which the Ministry also used services in the case of other expert opinions, will the Minister or Ministry no longer use his services? Because that's what you said.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u314	Minister Mikołaj Pawlak, spokesperson for the rights of the child, was the director of the Department of Family Affairs and Minorities at the Ministry of Justice, if I recall correctly... And in the Ministry of Justice I have been since 2015, Mr. Pawlak since 2016 and then the Department of Family and Minor Affairs was established. In 2016, the Department of Family and Minor Affairs was established. And it seems that since 2016, Minister Pawlak, then director, was an employee of the Ministry of Justice. The team was established in 2017. I have no idea if Director Pawlak was a member of this team. I don't think so, but it's for verification. However, the team was undoubtedly working with the Department of Family and Minorities. I do not know if the duties of Director Pawlak were to supervise and cooperate with this team, but undoubtedly the main character in this team was Professor Haak and Judge Cieślik sitting here, then vice-director of the Department of Family Affairs and Minorities, who directly supervised the preparation of this project and the legislative work in 2017 and 2018, when there were consultations, later in 2019. Finally, now the director, the family judge, Beata Turk, has taken direct supervision of the work involving the preparation of this project since 2020.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u315	Thank you. Senator Magdalena Loven.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u316	Thank you. Minister, as a high-ranking state official, it seems that with a Master's degree Maybe I'm wrong. Maybe you have a higher degree than your master's degree. Don't you see anything inappropriate in the fact that you don't agree with Professor Habilitated's expertise, and you express it so clearly or unambiguously? Don't you see anything inappropriate about that?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u317	Senator, I'm a lawyer. As a lawyer, I would not have the courage to speak out decisively, for example. Zoology or biology or animal breeding. I don't know anything about that. I'm not an expert. The person you call an expert, even with the best scientific title, had the courage to do so, and instead of taking care of the free will, full freedom can do so, I do not question it, focusing on pedagogy as a professor of pedagogy, as a professor of the University of Bialystok in this field, has misled the public opinion and states of senators, to say the truth. It is in the words of this expert, quoted later by many media, that the ten-year-old will be in one facility with a twenty-four-year-old. That's bullshit. He's improved a little bit in his expertise, but he still shot it because he said a ten-year-old would be with a person between the ages of 18 and 21. It was in the words of this expert that appeared, and then it was reproduced in the media, that the Minister of Justice wants to run around and treat the kids with a taser. [[Voice from the room: Don't yell.]] Senator, if you'll excuse me, I'm not screaming... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Minister, don't get excited. Take it easy.]] Mrs. Marshal, these aren't emotions, they're just... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: These are emotions.]] ...a precise explanation of matters and an answer to your Marshal's question. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Too...]] Your Marshal will forgive me, but I will decide, Madam Marshal, whether too or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u318	I'm talking about the voice, the tone of the voice, Minister. You're emotional, and you don't need it. We don't have to talk about it nervously here, we can talk about it in substance. When we talk in substance... Only then will we be calm when we all keep our emotions in check. That's all I'm asking.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u319	Mrs. Marshal, this is such an important bill, it concerns children, it concerns minors, that I think everyone should approach it with a certain note of emotion, especially when he hears so many lies, manipulations and untruths in public space, also reproduced by people with a professor's title. This person said we wanted to run, I'm sorry for the simplification, and treat the kids with a taser. Is this serious? And that's completely untrue. The Act does not provide for direct Taser coercion measures, obviously, and this has been replicated actually in all media. He held back in this opinion, but the media quoted the words of an expert, your expert, the High Senate, the committee that invented this kind of case. I don't know... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u320	Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u321	Minister, just one question. You answered me, thank you very much, but you didn't answer the other one. The second question concerned Professor Marek Konopczyński, an expert from whom the Ministry used the opinion. I repeat the question: does the Ministry intend to resign from the services of Mr. Marek Konopczyński as an expert?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u322	Mr. Senator, we are going to use the services of experts with the best knowledge in the fields and speaking in areas where they are indeed experts, so if we need some expertise in pedagogy, it is difficult for me to exclude it at this stage, but certainly not in juvenile cases, because, as the High Senate has already realised, it is difficult to defend the expertise in this area, regardless of the scientific title that I respect of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u323	Thank you. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Thank you kindly.]] Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that a representative of the government has undertaken to provide a written answer to the question asked by Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u324	Dear Marshal! Dear Ladies and Gentlemen, Senators, After hearing the speech of the representative of the government, the Senator rapporteur made a decision, and at the committee meeting I also voted to support the rejection of the law in its entirety. It has been 40 years since the Juvenile Procedure Act was passed. It would seem that the world is moving forward, also in the approach to rehabilitation of young people. This is a long time that has brought serious changes in social reality and in the behaviour of the youngest members of our society. It is almost half a century, so the proposed changes should also go with the spirit of time, modernity, science, expert opinions and modern rehabilitation system. If one day in my field, I'm a doctor and I'm dealing with juveniles, one of us would question the professor's knowledge... We've always told a man like that: not in front of a person like you, we've passed exams. Great respect should be given to those who are representatives of science. I think we may be different, but to argue with such a high culture... I am disappointed by the Minister's speech today. Meanwhile, we have a law on supporting and rehabilitating minors, which raises huge and valid controversy, as we have seen here. It's more like a prison system than an educational system. The government funds us and young people, often from difficult environments, requiring great work on themselves and their emotions, medieval times and physical punishments. Curiosity is that the draft law on the promotion and rehabilitation of minors, prepared by the Ministry of Justice, provides, among others, for the adoption of a law on the promotion and rehabilitation of minors. possibility of placing ten-year-olds in rehabilitation facilities or permission to use handcuffs for children. This project has nothing to do with rehabilitation. I wanted to take a look at the opinion of the Ombudsman or the opinion of psychologists in this area, but such opinions were not indicated during the legislative work in the Sejm. It is terrifying that the bill on supporting and rehabilitating minors is simply a legalization of certain reprehensible practices, which had already been done much earlier, such as. application of measures of direct coercion against minors, cuffing them, wearing belts or the use of isolation devices. It seems to me that at this stage of knowledge at all in the field of pedagogy or dealing with juveniles, we can avoid such things, we can diagnose the needs of minors, not apply punishment. Of course, the application of penalties is much easier, and showing a certain approach to young people with problems requires a great deal of commitment. This bill doesn't do it. It's a search for justification for unacceptable acts against minors. The rehabilitation counselors have been fighting this for years, and now all of this will be based on ridiculous laws. I am in favour of rejecting the bill in its entirety. Such legislation in a democratic European country is appalling and will certainly be disastrous in its effects. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u325	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u326	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Analysis of the contents of the bill, expert opinions, the opinion of the Legislative Office prompts me to negative assessment of the provisions of this law. We have just heard the Minister, but it is worth listening to and thinking about what experts say, what experts say. Firstly, the principles contained in the Act are incompatible with the scientific acquis of pedagogy, psychology, sociology and will result in a deepening of the problem of rehabilitation, not its solution. Secondly, the content of the Act does not refer to supporting minors, and the rehabilitation process itself is reduced to a minor's stay in a rehabilitation facility. Thirdly, it is difficult to find not only elements of support, but also attempts to improve, enrich elements of respect for the dignity of the child, care for the proper course of the process of re-adaptation, reintegration and socialisation of the young man. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The bill clearly aims at punishing as a means of bringing justice to justice. The Act contains no indication of working with the family, which is the natural environment of the child. Moreover, the law excludes these children and young people from the educational system. He's giving them to him in quotes. The Minister of Justice. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u327	Excuse me, Senator. Gentlemen, if you'd like to talk, Minister, could you do it outside the room? It's all over here. And the senator speaking is very disturbed. [[And listening to us.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] There you go. Please, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u328	I'd be very grateful, Senator. Thank you very much, Marshal. A great mistake, even the harm to a child with an intellectual disability, is to moderately direct this child, in accordance with this law, to rehabilitate according to the rules of this law. The law and in this area ignores all the achievements of psychology and special pedagogy. It's not really a support bill. This is a law which, in terms of the rules of dealing with children at risk of demoralisation and child perpetrators of criminal offences, proposes first and foremost isolation, isolation, separation from the natural family environment, oppression, criminality, restrictions and exclusion. Such solutions disqualify this law when it comes to legal trading. I therefore support the proposal to reject this law, hoping to reflect and support our rejection by the PiS Senators and by the PiS Members in the Seym. Let's do it for the kids. I also address my appeal to the Minister of the Family, the Minister of Justice and the Ombudsman of the Rights of the Child. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u329	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Magdalena Loven. And I would ask you very much not to speak, because it is very disturbing to this senator who is speaking.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u330	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Actually, I had the opportunity to present my opinion, but the Minister's speech provoked me to re-enter the stand because I had to defend two things. First of all, I have to defend the employees of youth educational centers. These are big centers, there's no individual rehabilitation. Often they are overcrowded centers, away from home, because there are not enough of them in Poland. And the minister, unfortunately, manipulates the facts by saying that MOWs are run by local governments. The problem with MOWs is that pedagogical and substantive supervision has a minister of education over them through curators. The Starosta, if anybody comes and meets the conditions set out in the Youth Centres Act, must register such a centre. In this role of the self-government, the Minister knows it is ending. So bringing together overworked, often underfunded workers, often really without support, without supervision... putting responsibility on them in the way you just did, requires my answer. You did this by manipulating the facts, you blamed all the blame on the staff of the youth educational centers for the pathology that is happening, not in the correctional facilities that the Minister runs as the host body. That's how it sounded from your answer. That's why I'm defending these employees, and I'm defending them because they're trying their best. It's up to us, the state, the legislator, that really depends on how we organize rehabilitation. You haven't said a word to me about the interest you're overseeing at the Correctional Facility. I don't know if you're in person, but I believe you, if you present such a bill, have it in your supervision. You didn't stutter about that. And here's another manipulation. I was talking about the fact that we have 26 or 21 correction plants in Poland for 400 pupils? 30. Go ahead and count it. I'm sorry. How much? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: 31.]] We have 31 bets and 400 charges. Let's count it. 400 wards of correction facilities and... So let's not be surprised that there's... Excuse me, 400 employees at 31 facilities. That's 12 people per facility, counting so fast. Sixty thousand zlotys cost us every penitentiary of the Correctional Facility. On the rehabilitation of the Minister there, he was not polite to answer to Marshal Borusewicz. And that's where 70% goes back to the prisons. No? Less? 60% ? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: I answered, Senator, but I don't want to discuss it at this point.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please remain calm at this moment, Minister.]] And the other one... This individualisation of the rehabilitation process, if any, concerns only the correction facilities under the supervision of the Minister of Justice. And MOWs, MOS is the domain of the Minister of Education. It's a shame he's not here for this kind of work. And the second reason I'm standing here is to defend my right to consult. Prof. Dr. hab. Marek Konopczyński is the head of the Department of Special Pedagogics and Creative Actions at the University of Białystok, head of the Department of Works for Rehabilitation at the University of Białystok, vice-president of the Section of the Rehabilitation Pedagogical Pedagogical Science Committee at the Polish Academy of Sciences. The Master of Law questions this authority by commenting on the Professor's opinion on rehabilitation, not law, but rehabilitation. And this is outrageous to me. That is why I asked the Minister the question whether the high official of the state, which you are undoubtedly, an officer with a master's degree, should... Is it right that in a way actually taunting... Oh, well, I won't mention a good upbringing, because it's too bad for words. It just insults the rank of your position. Discredit a man with such an accomplishment? This is outrageous and unacceptable. Let me put it this way, Minister: you're a minister, you're a senator, you're a man. It's worth being decent. You're very young, you've made a quick career. Think, a 30-year-old man with a degree of professorship speaks like this... [[That's enough...]] ...from the Senate Speaker. [[Please respond.]] I don't understand... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Calm down, please.]] [[The senator insults the Minister...]] I'm not offended, I'm not offended. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] [[You're insulting me.]] I'm not insulting the Minister. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down. Mrs. Senator, could you give me a moment, please?]] [[Voice from the room: What is it anyway?]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, please calm down.]] [[Voice from the room: Anyone else offended?]] I'm not insulting the Minister. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Who is he anyway?]] The Minister was kind enough to insult a man with authority from the Senate speaker. [[Because he lied!]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me, who is this?]] [[Voice from the room: I e.g. I'm worried...]] [[I am a Member of the Sejm.]] [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stank: So much the more so... As you are a Member of the Sejm, Dear Member, you should know that you are not in the Sejm, but in the Senate Room. If you're sitting here, don't interfere with the Senate.]] [[I'm not interrupting.]] [[Voice from the room: You're interrupting.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please do not interfere with the Senate's deliberations.]] Mrs. Marshal, I hope I have made my views clear enough without insulting anyone. I believe that young people should respect the achievements of the elders. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u331	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u332	Mrs. Marshal, first about the formal matter. I would ask you to address Marshal Witek in connection with the behaviour of the Member. I don't know your name. The Member will introduce himself. [[I've introduced myself twice.]] Okay, that's what I'm applying for. [[Mariusz Gosek, educator of rehabilitation. Yes, please write in the application.]] Mr Pedagogian, you are acting inappropriately. [[Voice from the room: Non-pedagogically.]] I'm not gonna get into this, but I need... We must address the Marshals of the Sejm in this matter. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Staneck: I will.]] Mrs. Marshal! Dear Minister, This discussion has a high temperature. I'm not surprised it's got a high temperature. Well, cases involving young people, children, rehabilitation, certain legal actions that need to be taken are not indifferent to us. This law has some positive elements, such as determining the age from which a procedure can be initiated at all. Above the age of 10, it can be started and this is a positive aspect. But unfortunately, there are also negative elements, not good. I would like to say that I agree with you that the law on rehabilitation of children and young people from the period of the Polish People's Republic was a good law, because I also saw ways of implementing this law. E.g. Young people, children and adolescents up to 18 years of age could not wear handcuffs. It seems to me that there are other acute reactions that I'm about to talk about. Because handcuffs are still quite a mild measure, the law introduces rules for the use of other means of coercion... I don't think the other ones could have been used. Unfortunately, the main task of this law is repression. And I can't agree to that. I would like to quote a few opinions, also from Professor Marek Konopczyński: Regulations focus on restricting individual freedoms and freedoms, which consequently does not contribute in any way to socialisation with the social community, and, moreover, may be the reason for an even greater increase in anti-social attitudes. And this is written by a teacher professor, not a lawyer, but a teacher. That has to be taken into account. And Dr. Mariusz Dobiański from the University of Białystok, director of the youth educational center, writes in his opinion: "The law is primarily aimed at punishing as a tool for social justice, which is not understandable to her subject, that is, for this young man and even for the child. The Act does not provide guidance for working with the family and the underage community. This is written by a scientist, who, as I understand it, is also a teacher, so here he draws attention to pedagogical aspects. It also states that the legislator intends to remove children and young people from the education system, showing signs of social impropriety and putting them in the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice. So Minister Ziobro takes over the education of these young people from educators, parents, etc. Earlier, as I recall, the age of punishment was reduced from the criminal code. It used to be 17 years old or over 17 years old, and then as a result of the tightening of penalties and repression, 15 years old was introduced here. I don't know whose time it was tightened up in, but I suspect it was in the days of the current rulers. Well, of course there is a problem in these youth educational centers, and there are problems in the correctional facilities, there is a group of young people completely corrupted, there are crimes committed on other pupils, even murders, there are rapes, violence, etc. Unfortunately, this prison subculture of prison facilities has long since moved to these centres, including juvies. And that's not gonna do much. The fact that the frequency of going back to breaking the law, the crime, is in one case, in youth education centers, 80%, that's huge... You can see what the problem is. But in the penitentiary, it's 40%, it's not enough. And unfortunately, in response to such a situation, the Ministry of Justice 'Cause it's a project from this department. It uses similar methods, transfers the way it reacts from prisons to correction facilities and to these youth centres. Well, if 5 penalties are introduced, which most likely require force, so the isolation chamber up to 48 hours in prison was called cabarin, or hard beds. Handcuffs, safety straitjacket, seat belts, and safety helmet... The last one you can say is some kind of protection, this helmet, but the handcuffs, especially the safety straitjacket, the restraint belts... I mean, to put anyone in it, you use force. We must break resistance and force is undoubtedly used in such situations. So in response to this prison subculture and problems, you want to tighten up the repression. Well, because it's repression, it's not some kind of educational thing. Maybe in an emergency situation, in a dangerous situation or in a particularly dangerous situation... But it can't be introduced as a rule, a normal rule that will apply to minors, some of whom are children, they're still children. Well, unfortunately, as I say, this is the transfer of all the repression that applies to adults in prisons. And this is a completely different situation, also from the point of view of psyche. The adult is shaped, very often all this does not impress him. Although safety belts and straitjacket make an impression on everyone. Undoubtedly, the psyche of such a young man or child must be adversely affected by such actions in relation to young people and children. So I see that still in the ministry the answer to problems, to what happens sometimes, to extreme situations, is only to increase repression, repression and ailments of repression. And you can clearly see this direction, which is still being applied in this law, in the law that applies to young people and children. And here you have to be especially, especially careful. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal, time.]] Now. I also asked if the current Ombudsman of children's rights was working on this at the Ministry. Well, I'm surprised the spokesperson didn't take the floor in this case. He also did not speak at the committee meeting. Well, he should be looking at the children's welfare after all. I understand that you're looking at this from the point of view of punishment, repression, etc., but the spokesperson has a different role. The Ombudsman of the rights of the child should look at the welfare of the children, whether the solution serves the welfare of the children or not.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u333	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u334	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! At the stage of the Senate work we used the help of various experts, we were interested in their knowledge and material experience, not their views on this or any other matter. The fact that we have benefited from the help of experts who have really special experience in these areas... Let's take a look at the composition of the Scientific and Programme Council of the magazine. He, of course, later changed, but the council in this squad I'm going to introduce this squad. It looked like this: Chairman of the Programme and Science Council of this letter Zbigniew Ziobro; Deputy Chairman Dr hab. Henry Haak, the person we mentioned today. Among the members of the council, prof. ul. Dr. hab. Marek Konopczyński. Isn't it that you use expert knowledge only until you agree with their views, and when their views don't suit you, they stop being experts? We're guided by a different philosophy. I will consciously not benefit from the opinion of Professor Konopczyński, who, I believe, in the area of rehabilitation has a great deal of knowledge, experience Indeed, many individual ministers of justice have benefited from this knowledge and experience, and I will benefit from Dr Mariusz Dobianski's opinion, who has experience as a representative of the academic community, an aide at the University of Białystok, but above all as a director of the Youth Education Center in Jaworek. What can we read in his opinion? That emotional discussions do not solve problems and construct practical solutions that can improve the efficiency of the rehabilitation system, but only build a social conviction about the need to tighten criminal law, which is intended to reduce the number of people committing crimes in the social environment. And further: this belief is contrary to scientific research that has been under way for years and has no empirical basis. I do not hide the fact that I was very interested in the information you gave during this debate, the fact that the number of people returning to the road of crime, the graduates of youth education centers... The minister said it's up to 80.90%. I'm trying to use hard data, not my beliefs. This is the report of the Supreme Audit Chamber, announced on May 5, 2022, under the title "Terminaries of Youth Education Centres." What do we read in this report? NIK checked on a large sample, several hundred MOW-controlled subjects, what happened to these wards after they were deleted from the records. The percentage of people who got into conflict with the law after leaving the centers has increased in your day, that's true, has increased in your day. From 21 to 23%. But where did the minister get 90%? MOW's people back on the road to crime? I'm asking for a list. The centre after the centre That's what you said 90% of the data was based on. Those in charge are back on the road to crime. But let's get back to Dr. Mariusz Dobianski's opinion. What do we read next in this opinion? The law on the promotion and rehabilitation of minors is part of the rhetoric presented, and its name, indicating the need for support for minors, is merely a declarative one, announced by the title of a law which is not developed in the legal provisions contained therein. So that there's no doubt: I haven't said a sentence from myself so far, I'm just quoting an expert based on an opinion that we could use. And I think that this evaluation of the project doesn't require any comment anymore. The opinion further states: "It is difficult to refer to the care of the state's action, which, in the most important law governing the conduct of state institutions towards a child who is depraved, who does not properly implement the norms and principles of society (most often due to a defective family environment, and therefore not in a faulty way by him) is mainly acting on a judicial level, i.e. raw and restrictive character. In the Act declared support is almost not applicable. It cannot therefore be concluded that the State is caring for a child who needs help, but it is clear how severe it is to be punished. Yeah, sometimes you need punishment. Yeah, sometimes you need insulation. We all know that. But this law, even in the context of its name, the law on the support and rehabilitation of minors, requires a combination of these properties. It's not like sometimes the best bill is written by a prison officer. Indeed, the philosophy of the Juvenile Rehabilitation Act should be the philosophy of the legal act, in which at the stage of preparation of the project there is a wise dialogue between those responsible for rehabilitation, penitentiary activities, as well as for pedagogical activities. We have a clear assessment in this opinion in this regard, that you have failed as the authors of this project. The opinion further reads: "The aim of secondary socialization (rehabilitation) is to prepare pupils for independent functioning in the social environment, in a responsible and creative and creative manner. Preparing, therefore, to equip the upbringing with new social competences necessary for living in society, preferably if it were carried out under environmental conditions outside the rehabilitation institution. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Excuse me, Mr. Senator. Gentlemen, I would very much ask for peace.]] In turn, the Law aims primarily at punishing as a tool for social justice, which is not understood by its subject, i.e. the child. In practice, institutional rehabilitation most often takes place under conditions of isolation of minors from the non-institutional social environment. This to a large extent results in the adaptation of the minor to the conditions expected by the institution, described by the regulations and legal order functioning in it. The control of behaviour limits the social development of people in institutions, which, in conjunction with social stigmatisation resulting from isolation, constitutes an important barrier to their social re-adaptation and reintegration. Where are you referring to this part? Where do you have the part that is the essence of the opinion, which is how to effectively lead to readaptation and reintegration? Of course, we understand the isolation from society at a certain stage, but you have a clear voice here. What should be the essence of the project, the author of the opinion speaks directly, but this in this project absolutely does not exist. We read further that what you presented as an advantage of this project, the author sees as a flaw. Among the few advantages of this law are solutions in the form indicated in its content which can be applied by the judge of the family court so-called. medicinal products intended for adolescents with psychiatric disorders and psychoactive agents. But we read further: "The experience of rehabilitation has shown that in the case of those in charge of the above. mental health should be secured first, and rehabilitation measures should be taken next. The laws on criminal offences do not differentiate the way a minor is treated by giving judges great freedom of interpretation. This allows almost the same actions to be taken by a family judge to decide whether to apply an educational, corrective or criminal measure. The examination of the provisions of the Act raises questions concerning the criteria to be followed by the courts when deciding on a specific measure which will determine whether minors will be held responsible for education or reform. The difference in liability is huge, and the lack of clarity of the conditions which differentiate the possibility of applying the measure is an important failure. The distinction between the most restrictive educational measure. placing in the district educational centre (OOW) and the correctional establishment (ZP) is based on the wording: the degree of demoralization or the high degree of demoralization. Such a provision shall in no way constitute a clear indication for judges deciding on the type of measure to be taken. The announcements of the authors of the law on the need for the courts to apply measures of a legislative nature first, and only in the next order of education, once again point to the restrictiveness of the proposed law. I can't make any further comments on the bill, but I hope that this scenario will be implemented... Because you absolutely need to revise the juvenile law, but you didn't work out here. That's what experts tell you. And since this law was adopted by only 226 votes in the Seym and there is no indication that you would reject the Senate veto, I wish you one, if this veto is adopted: prepare a good bill. Come here with a bill that will actually serve the whole society, but above all the children we want to rehabilitate. Because what you're proposing... You must remember that this young man will leave these centers sooner or later. And I would like to have a conviction and all the citizens in Poland would like to have a conviction that he will not return to the way of crime. There is no proposal in this regard that gives citizens such an opportunity. And that's what the experts are telling you. Take these advices, not just advice from experts who say what you want to hear. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u335	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Halina Bieda, Maciej Łuczak, Mariusz Gromko, Robert Mątkow, Benjamin Godyla, Janusz Gromek and Joanna Sekuła made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would also like to inform you that you have tabled proposals of a legislative nature in writing by Senator Marek Martynowski. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Yes, please.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u336	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Very briefly I will refer to all of this, for in the first part there was indeed a very long statement and a rich position. Nevertheless, I, also after a series of questions, have a very deep conviction And that's not an accusation. That the State did not see the correction plant with its own eyes. This is not an accusation, I do not make it out of this charge, because even one of the directors of the penitentiary told me how the family judge came to him and asked how many hours a day the pupils were released from their cells. That's completely absurd, because that's not the point of a correctional facility. Ladies and gentlemen, last month I was in a correctional facility in Zawiercie and there girls, pupils, two of them, and especially one of them, told me so that... And it wasn't in some inspired conversation that we were playing the theater, but it was authentic when we walked between one room and the other: sir, it saved my life. There are examples. I would ask the High Senate to make the senators aware that we are not dealing with punishment here. In not a single place of this bill, High Senate, there is no question of punishment. This isn't a criminal code. This is not a criminal procedure. These are juvenile cases. There's educational measures, there's reform measures. And they serve one: the welfare of the child. So that a young man who may not have had the opportunity to live in a normal family or have proper patterns could return to the bosom of a normal society. And this is in this bill, High Senate, Ladies and Gentlemen. Not punishment. I've heard here about the physical punishments in this bill. I don't know... Let me see that article. I mean, we can either really talk about facts, or we can talk about ideas. If from the senators' mouth there are claims that this project is about the application of physical penalties, then we can really tomorrow At 8.15 p.m., it seems that there is a committee meeting to read the article after the article to prove to you that it is simply not there. Just like there aren't all those other things we've talked about, and that's all we've read. But thank you very much for those votes, especially Mr. Marshal Borusewicz's voice. Thank you, too, for having fallen in the Senate. On certain positive aspects of this project. But in this respect, here, Mr. Marshal, it is as you have just said, that if these measures of direct coercion must be applied, it is the whole gradation of these measures. They are only used in absolutely exceptional situations And what's more, they're subject to judicial review, not a simple review, as is the case normally, but out of 3 reasons... And it was one of the intentions, one of the assumptions of this project, to make matters related to the means of direct coercion... But I would also like to invite you. I'm open. We can arrange a visit to one or the other committee at the Correctional Facility so you can see what the rehabilitation process looks like. The Minister must have been there, and he knows that sometimes there are people taller than me, and wider in bars. Also because there are adults there and that this educational process can be difficult because there are many difficult people there. Not tours, but study visits of the committee are also possible • Correctional workers have asked many times... For years, in hundreds of letters addressed to the ministry, to the departments, not only to the Department of Family Affairs and Minors, but also to the earlier ones, under prior management, they asked to give them the opportunity to react properly, sometimes even to defend themselves, unfortunately. Of course, that's why this project is in parliament to deinstitutionalise as few people as possible. And if they do, let rehabilitation be effective and also ensure safety in those cases where it must be ensured. So much for the first line. And as for the second point, Mr. Marshal, I was the one who attended the joint committee meeting. Mr Ombudsperson also attended this committee meeting, presented his position, his opinion and took the floor. Furthermore, he has also submitted several opinions in writing. Thus, in this respect, There's also no real confirmation of the question raised by your marshal. To the rest, these cases were duplicated. I, of course, will not respond to certain ad personam attacks on upbringing. I think I'm trying to behave with the highest culture. Besides, I also exchanged one sentence with the senator after that statement. But I will certainly stand in the position that even someone with the title of professor For the professor's scientific work, it is important to respect, as I said earlier. "Against the facts, contrary to the normative text..." Well, shouldn't we consider that? We're supposed to pretend that we don't see what's out there, that we don't hear what things that aren't really there? And if there are cases that are not true, with the normative text of the Act, then please continue to conclude logically what quality material, unfortunately, has been delivered to the senators. This is the right, even the Master of Law, to assess a specific critical assessment of such texts, which are also delivered to the Ministry of Justice. But to the level of discussion about upbringing and culture, I wouldn't want to bring that up. Your Senate, in spite of all the requests for rejection, I encourage... And thank you for those voices that have emerged, appreciating the positive, substantive contribution of this law. Of course, with certain reservations, with a different sensitivity to which always What I respect, each of your senators clearly has the right. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u337	I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote will be held at the end of the meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law The text of the Act is contained in print No 733, and the report of the Commission In print No 733 A. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, could you please move the conversations to the hallway? I'd like that very much. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Potoj, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I'll wait a few minutes until...]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, the government side... It's very late. It's time. 10:30. We'd like to consider a few more points, and that's why we need peace. [[A few today? I don't think so.]] Yeah, a few. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u338	Thank you very much, Marshal. I think I'm going to meet everyone's expectations, because this point is fully agreed on all sides of the barricade, to the extent that even during the committee meeting, whose work I'm going to report, we were without representatives from the ministry. From A to Z and opposition, and most Whether in the Senate or in the Seym It is consistent with the fact that this is a good project. And the proposal concerns the amendment of the Law on proceedings before administrative courts. This law is the implementation of the request contained in the individual petition submitted to the Senate of the Republic of Poland. The petitioner proposed to extend the regulation of the article. 69 of the Law of 30 August 2002 on the law on proceedings before administrative courts for the possibility of service in administrative proceedings to the address of the post office box. Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, Minister, I think I'm going to express everyone's opinion by saying that by adapting this procedure to what happens in civil and criminal proceedings, we are doing something good. That's one thing. Secondly, I would like to remind you that in the Human Rights Committee when considering this petition, as well as later during the work and vote in the Senate... Unanimously, the entire Senate was in favour of this change. I would also like to inform you that during the vote in the Sejm, this project, which is very practical, passed unanimously, without any opposition. So much for my report. I ask, on behalf of the committee, that the High Senate accept this submission without any amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u339	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the rapporteur's senator, and at the same time a representative of the applicants for the Senate bill. I would remind you that Senator Alexander Pociej was also authorized by the Senate as a representative of the Senate's draft bill. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. [[Thank you very much.]] Let me remind you that the bill was filed by the Senate. The Minister of Justice has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Michał Woś: Mrs. Marshal, allow me to confirm the senator's words from the point of view.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Ryszard Świlski, Janusz Pęcherz and Mariusz Gromko made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 734, and the report of the Commission In print No 734 A. At this point, I'm managing a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 35 to 22 minutes 37]] I'm reopening the session. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u340	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I am reporting a law on amending the Act on the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding and some other laws. This centre was established in a completely different situation when there were opportunities for Polish-Russian dialogue. It was an idea on our part, Minister and Professor Rotfeld. Even that center worked and did some good things. It was published, among others. such a volume containing the things that the Russians thought were controversial, and which were with us Very well known, of course. This was about conflict, Russian crimes, etc. This was published on "The Bible's Word. " White plans, black spots. Cases difficult in Polish-Russian relations (1918-2008) and were edited by the Polish side, and by the Russian side, so that it was also published in Russian. It was also the time when Andrzej Wajda's film Katyń was shown on public television with a very large range, on Russian public television. But that time is over. He was already finished in 2014, when Russia moved to the annexation of Crimea and property, taking over most of the circuits... of the Donetsk circuit and... well, those two eastern circuits on which it dug. Well, after February 24th, i.e. after full-scale aggression against Ukraine, of course not only the name itself, but in general the way and scope of the institution had to be changed. It did not make sense, because it was difficult to talk about dialogue with an aggressor who assaults a neighbouring country, threatens Europe, us, and basically the whole world, conducts an imperialist policy that undermines in general the principles of international law, undermines borders in Europe, i.e. illegal aggression, unjustified aggression. Of course, the situation has changed completely, and it is good that there has also been a change in this centre. And this concerns not only the change of name, but also the scope of its operation. This change of name from the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding at the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski is, I think, a very good change. And it is good that Juliusz Mieroszewski from Paris's Culture is the one to whom the name of the Centre refers. The Centre is to deal with dialogue and agreement in relations between Poles and Eastern European nations, in particular with Ukrainians, Belarusians, Georgians, Moldovans and Russians. That's the government's proposal. I understand that the Ministry of Culture. And that's the most important thing and the most important change. It didn't cause controversy. There was only an amendment tabled concerning the need for cooperation, dialogue and agreement in relations with the peoples of the Russian Federation, i.e. not only the Russians... Because there are over 30 other nations in the Russian Federation. The greatest number are the Tatars, but there are others; they are the Caucasian nations, the Chechens, the nations that inhabit Asia. And it would be worth pointing out that the centre should also work with those nations that have a different culture, a different history, other languages that inhabit the Russian Federation and are not Russians, are not Ukrainians, are not Jews, etc., they are not influential nations. These are the nations that the Russians... which in the East are called in general the root nations, that is, those that are the roots of this territory. This is a significant part of the territory of the Russian Federation, that is over 20% of the territory of the Russian Federation. This amendment was tabled. The bill was voted on together with this amendment, not by a majority, but all voted in favour of it together with the amendment. I also want to make an amendment, one amendment, and I will not wait for the debate, I will make it now. I consider it pointless to eliminate the international council of this centre, because the situation as if the subject matter of action was extended... Well, this international council should play the role of a certain collaborator, coordinator, and should be invited to this council by those on whom the centre wants to interact and with whom it wants to contact. This centre also has ambitions to go out of Poland, i.e. it also has ambitions for international activities, above all, the object of the operation of the centre is outside Poland, so it is worth that such advice should be and of course that the director of the centre should have the opportunity to shape this advice. That's why I'm going to apply for this advice in a moment. There was a proposal in the bill to delete, to abolish this advice, or the center as if it had backed back, but I don't think it's the right thing to do, so it's worth going back to that. Of course, on different terms, because here the explanation was that this advice did not work at all. This Council of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding was so formulated that it could not take action in principle. I will not enter into these complexities, but she has not taken action, but it must be formulated differently, on different principles to build, and it should also be part of wider cooperation, as if to involve these other societies, other nations in cooperation with the centre, also because these people have at least some opportunity to express an opinion, not about influences, etc., but to express an opinion on the operation of the centre and to help in these activities which are needed and which we should take. In this new situation, in the situation of Russia's aggression, we should not leave our hands, but try to function, cooperate with Ukrainians, Belarusians, other nations, Moldovans, but also with those Russians who are in opposition, who are against Putin's regime, are against war, and so are they. I agree that there may be a minority of them, but if it is twenty pairs or 30%, it is a lot and we should remember them, support them, help them, although the problems are huge. Inviting someone from Russia, paying him to stay here or tickets creates such situations that this person is referred to as a foreign agent or this organization is referred to as a foreign agent and must put that name on his forehead in capital letters. This type of procedure has been performed, but there are people... still Russians who say it's a war, not a special operation by the Ministry of Defense, and they're going to jail for it. In Russia, Putin introduced the Penalization of this, you can't call war. For using such a word, it's a three-fifteen-year threat, imagine. Of course, this will be very difficult cooperation, but I wish the centre in a new shape, under a new name, to lead this cooperation. I wish you the centre of success. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u341	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u342	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There is a slight inaccuracies in this amendment that you are proposing and which extends the scope of the subject matter. It is about these other nations of the Russian Federation. Some of these nations do not live in Europe, in the European part of the Russian Federation, but outside it, in Asia, and this in turn conflicts with this basic description: The aim of the Centre's activities is to initiate, support and engage in dialogue and agreement between Poles and the peoples of Eastern Europe. Other peoples of the Russian Federation do not need to live in Eastern Europe. Mr. Marshal, what do you say?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u343	It's not a restrictive amendment, it's an extension amendment, so I don't see the problem here. If this would limit this scope of action, yes, it would be a problem, but this amendment extends it. [[I see a contradiction here, but...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u344	Anyone else want to ask a question? Senator Jerzy Fedorovich. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u345	I just want you to remind the marshal as rapporteur... Because we talked about the fact that this international commission was removed from the bill, because it was a committee which was to be composed of representatives of Poland and Russia. That didn't work, that was the reason. The result is the Marshal's amendment, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u346	No, the result was a proposal to eliminate this international council from the bill. My amendment restores it in a different form. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u347	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Piotr Babinetz was authorised to present the position of the applicants. I'm afraid your Member isn't in the courtroom. On behalf of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement, Director Ernest Wyciszkiewicz was authorized to discuss the bill. Would you like to speak on this bill? [[Director of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding Ernest Wyciszkiewicz: As director of the institution, I will function within the framework which the Members and Senators will appoint. I can answer questions about the centre, if necessary, although commenting on amendments is obviously not my role.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Fedorowicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u348	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm only taking the floor for a moment. I was the creator of this 2011 law, and I want to say... It came out of my mouth at the committee meeting that I thank you for the activities of the centre. Despite various political changes in our country, the Centre has done its job, and I would also like to thank the Director for that. It continued until January this year and was doing its work, which was very important, in order to integrate these two nations. I wish you success on your new path, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u349	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u350	In addition to everything that Marshal Borusewicz said, I would like to remind you that these are not just the ideas of our committee or the amendments only of Marshal Borusewicz, because we also asked specialists. We sent questions to Professor Jan Malicki, a well-known expert and head of Eastern European Studies at the University of Warsaw, and he sent us this opinion because he was abroad and could not personally attend... In his opinion, he stated that he considered it worth extending the scope of cooperation to other peoples of the Russian Federation. This is important and important and it is right that Senator Czerwinski's attention is made in the sense that there are also nations of the Caucasus and Central Asia, etc., with which we would... I was wondering if I could introduce something like that. But it goes beyond specific circumstances. It seems to me that this is not a flaw and a reason to change the whole meaning of the institute, especially since it will not now be oriented towards these nations of the Russian Federation for the reasons that Senator Borusewicz spoke about. That is to say, it is practically impossible to cooperate with other peoples of the Russian Federation because it is simply a prison sentence that Marshal Borusewicz spoke about. I pay attention to this because it seems to us now that it may never happen, but there is a special opportunity for us to enter these countries. They had not been included in the bill before, probably thought about whether they would not be included, but for various reasons, political, geopolitical, due to this dialogue with Russia, it was not possible to expect Russian acceptance. I remind you, it was a bill... Senator Fedorowicz said that he was a co-creator, but in fact this law was prepared at the Ministry of Culture, it was a government law that triggered all this because of the possibility of conducting this dialogue at the time. The film Katyn, mentioned by Marshal Borusewicz, which was shown on Russian television... To this day we remember it, it shocked and some discussion in Russia at that time. I would like to remind you that there was a general policy on Katyn, promotion, etc. It is also worth remembering that it was a film of such good artistic quality that it was glad to be seen all over the world and for example. It's a lesson... He was also shown in schools in Italy. It was all initiated by diplomacy. Returning to the former centre of the Polish-Russian dialogue, and now the Centre for Dialogue, I will say that it will be focused primarily on cooperation with Ukraine and other countries, and this is what the Centre is doing right now, as the director told us at the committee meeting. There was no doubt about it here. It seems to me that some scopes have been the subject of a dispute or something, so there are these amendments, but everyone was positive about the initiative to change the name and what this centre is going to do in the future. So it's such a sign of time. And those who think... Finally, I would like to say that it seems to us that it will not be possible to cooperate with Russia or with other Russian nations at all. And I would like to say that this can happen quickly, I hope, because it is enough that power will change there and we will be able to return to this dialogue. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u351	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Viktor Durlak and Danuta Jazłowiecka made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. I would like to inform you that you have submitted legislative proposals in writing to the senator, Marshal Borusewicz. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? I understand he doesn't want to. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration will be held at the end of the Senate meeting and that, as legislative proposals have been tabled, I ask the Committee on Culture and Communications to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Act on the change of the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław. The text of the Act is contained in print No 738 and the report of the Commission In print No 738 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Jack Bury, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u352	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! On 9 June 2022, the Sejm passed a law on changing the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław by adding to the name of the patron of the university, the name of the Polish Olympians in Wrocław. As draftsman of the committee, I would like to say that at the committee meeting we considered the syntax of this name, but it turned out that this is the practice in other universities that operate in Poland. And this syntax of assigning patrons, such a name is used. There were other comments which, however, were not understood in the course of the discussion. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted without amendment. We are very pleased that the senate of the university, the university unanimously approves this name, that the representatives of the university are very happy that they will be able to have patronage in the form of Polish Olympics. So once again, in conclusion, I ask the High Senate to adopt a law without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u353	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of you like to ask such a question? No. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. In this case, we welcome the Secretary of State, Wojciech Murdzek. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? No. Thank you very much. The case seems pretty obvious to the Senate. Currently, the Senators - No, I need to read this formula. They may report from a place of not more than one minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of you like to ask such a question? I don't see any volunteers. I'm opening a discussion. I inform you that Senator Zdrojewski has signed up remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u354	Yes. Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm very short, because it's very late. I would like to stress that I have been observing the search for a proper patron for the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław for almost 30 years. Unfortunately, this did not work because of the diversity of opinions, expectations. So, all the more so, I would like to stress with such satisfaction that this procedure has finally been completed positively. This is the last university that didn't have this patronage. But the choice is important. And I would like to make it clear that this choice is not accidental. Actually, the Academy of Physical Education and Wrocław have a significant group of Olympians, so it seems to me that this university will be worthy to represent this chosen patron through its scientific staff, as well as all those Olympics who functioned in Wroclaw. And in order not to extend, I would say so illustratively that those Olympics from Wrocław or Olympics associated with the Academy of Physical Education were very many, but they were also many. Renata Mauer-Rózańska, who is currently an employee of the Academy of Physical Education, will stress: twice gold medalist Olympics Ryszard Szurkowski, Władysław Żmuda, Józef Zagółzki, Rafał Kubacki, Marek Petrusewicz, Urszula Włodarczyk, Wojciech Bartnik, Józef Tracz, Mariusz Jędra, Piotr Małachowski, Paweł Rańda, Jerzy Klempel and many others. I'm not gonna name everyone, of course, but I'd like this illustration to show up. So that with great satisfaction I note that the Wrocław university receives a patronage, that this patronage is strongly justified and will certainly be taken care of in all those who simply represent Poland at the Olympics and do not come exclusively from Wrocław in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u355	Thank you very much, senator. The discussion is closed. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Pęcherz and Janusz Gromek made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Does a government representative still want to speak? As I understand it, no. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: information on the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2020. The text of the information is contained in print No 604. The Senate Marshal sent the information received to the Legislative Commission, which addressed it at its meeting on 8 June 2022. At the same time, I would like to inform you that earlier information, for the years 2018 and 2019, the Senate prints Nos 27 and 305, were the subject of a meeting of the Legislative Commission at its meeting on 5 May 2021. Marshal of the Senate on 27 June this year. received from the President of the Court, Ms Julia Przyłębska, a letter in which the President informed that she would not be present in plenary during the examination of the point: information on the significant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2020. Let me read this letter, despite the late hour, because, with all due respect to the constitutional institutions of the state, it is, to put it mildly, curiosity. Dear Mr Marshal, in response to the invitation to the next Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland, I kindly inform you that I have maintained my position expressed in previous years. On the basis of the need to protect the Court from violating the fundamentals of the State of public law, also undermining its constitutional position by some of the representatives of the legislative authority, I will not take part in the Senate meeting scheduled for 29 June on information on significant problems to the Senate Marshal on 27 December 2021. Here's the title. By submitting on 27 December 2021 the relevant problems arising from the activities of the case-law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2020, as President of the Court, I have implemented the resulting Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 Act of 30 November 2016 on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal 2393 - obligation. And now: Unfortunately, the experience of recent years has shown that a substantive, substantive discussion on the case-law of the Court involving some of the representatives of the Senate's legislative authority replaces often unprecedented attacks on the Constitutional Tribunal and judges of the Court of Justice. The style of the debate was often violated not only by the ore of the law, but also by the canon of culture of the conversation. End of the letter. She signed Julia Przyłębska. You must know... Here I welcome Mr Bohdan Zdziennicki, President of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2008 and Mr Andrzej Rzepliński, President of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2010/2016. You must know, You who have repeatedly stood in this House that this last paragraph is completely untrue, because in this Senate term, the President has not been here once. So writing about the attacks on the Court and judges, about the style of the debate that violated the ore of the law, but also the canon of the culture of the conversation, is a non-existent argument, because there was neither debate nor the visit of the president during this Senate term in this building and in this plenary session. This is an unacceptable action, contrary to Article. 10 Constitutions on the need for cooperation between constitutional authorities. And that won't go unresponsive because it's obviously not true. Do the invited guests wish to speak on the agenda? I would like to ask, who of you would like to speak? I invite the judge, Mr. Bohdan Zdziennicki. Come, if you don't mind, to the bleacher, it'll be more comfortable here.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u356	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you so much for inviting me. I believe that this point is an extremely important point, despite the time being, because the Republic of Poland is a state of law, all the authorities are at the protection of this right, but the Constitutional Tribunal is here to play a particular role as guardian of the will of the nation expressed in the Constitution and the Senate of the Republic of Poland, which is the body which monitors the quality of the law. In a state of law it is not the will of anyone, any political party or any leader, and the law which was established in a constitutional manner is the factor and, as it was also accepted in the First Republic of Poland, is the king who reigns in the Republic of Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the first thing you've mentioned to the marshal, i.e. that in such an important matter, during the 25th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, the Constitutional Tribunal, which is to be the guardian of the will of the nation contained in the Constitution, is something unimaginable. It is the Court, with a view to the constitutionalisation of law and policy, that it is the principle that the Marshal mentioned, i.e. the cooperation of the authorities, and in particular this concerns a body such as the Senate, which, by the will of the nation, accepts the reports, also evaluates the activities of the Constitutional Tribunal. This co-operation is that the legislative authority, part of which, so insanely important, is the Senate, has the right to exercise control in this area. The Constitutional Tribunal, which belongs to the judicial authority, but is placed in its competence just between the legislative authority and the judicial authority and is to be the controller of the law, to control whether the law is compatible with the Constitution. Second thing. No, the transmission of this 2020 report and not 2021, which also raises concerns... This report is insanely important by showing the state in which the brightest Republic is present. It can be noted that this organisational and procedural efficiency is not met or ensured either, above all, there are very few cases, which means that there has been a crisis in the principle of complaint on which the Court's activities are based. This crisis of the principle of complaint means that trust in the Court, so important in the state of law In particular, in the current period of all these tensions, which were also mentioned a moment ago, international and others fell, although it is for the Constitutional Tribunal to guarantee the stability and continuity of statehood. This crisis of trust and this lack of continuity... The Constitutional Tribunal is to stress the continuity of statehood and law, which is the basis of the existence of this state and nation, but we are faced with questioning the position and competence of such an important body as the Senate, and the entire tradition of the Senate as this House, which it has, alongside other tasks, as important a task as ensuring the quality of the law, the law which is to be king, is the king. In quotation marks The Republic of Poland. Well, he's also wondering about the number of omissions. In the report, this large number of omissions, which have, however, passed through the preliminary examination at the Court, also does not show that it is doing well in an organisational sense. I'm sure the Senate would like to hear the report and the answers on this, find out what's going on, if there's so much remission, why this situation exists, in addition to this crisis, the principle of complaint. Because, as you know, the Court only acts on a complaint basis. We also have some personal changes in the report. I don't want to go back to being understudy judges here, but it's also about new referee nominations. It is well known that the judges of the Court receive from the nation a huge mandate and great trust, because it is they who, in certain legal forms, can decide that the law is not the law. Their decisions, if they are given in the appropriate composition and in accordance with the whole procedure, are to be final and generally binding. The selection of new judges should be preceded by a great national debate on individual candidates. The report should also state that there have been some changes in 2020, and it should be stated whether these new candidates meet the highest requirements which are addressed to the Court's judges. Not only the requirements for legal qualifications, but also the authority gained in society, experience and impeccable ethical attitude in terms of courage, loyalty to certain principles. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not wish to prolong this, but I would like to remind you of the role of the Court and the Constitution at a time when we have a crisis of many values. When society is confused, the constitution and the law are supposed to merge us. It should be explained that the Constitution contains the most important principles and values, that axiology, that is, this morality of society, the morality of the state, has a special role. The report should mention more about what is happening at the moment when we have such internal and external turmoil related to the international situation, as the Court sees these challenges and how it predicts certain things. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Court is at the moment of great importance not only in the processes of globalisation but also in energy transformation, in the digital revolution, in environmental change. All these things should be... there should be a legislative response to them, and one of the most important elements is the Senate. This should be reflected in existing law, in thoughtful new solutions, in a broad public debate and an attempt to assess whether the existing solutions give us the basis or whether the right must be created. Of course, the law is a state of duty. Right? This is an action plan on how to implement the social market economy, as the Constitution says, to implement the democratic rule of law in which we are and which is richly reflected in the previous case law of the Court. There are general guidelines in the Constitution that require interpretation, and it is very important whether the normative plan, which is contained in the Constitution, regarding the political system, the economic system and respect for human rights and freedoms, which cannot be observed when there is no strong collectiveity, the whole community, is being implemented. To conclude, I am afraid I can speak too much as a lawyer, and it is still a retired for 12 years, and I would like to say that this debate is extremely important despite the late season. I am surprised and shocked that the President of the Court and the Judges of the Court are not present during this debate. During my term of office, during the term of my successor and my predecessors, this never happened. Thank you very much for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u357	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Does President Rzepliński wish to speak? Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u358	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Thank you for inviting me. Annual information from the Constitutional Tribunal on the important problems that have been identified in the case law of the Constitutional Tribunal... These judgments were, by nature, intended primarily to serve fundamental freedoms and citizens' rights. And, of course, the Republic of Poland as such. One form of initiation of legal proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal is a constitutional complaint, an institution introduced directly in the Constitution, which would enable citizens to feel that the law, whether through a series of events or due to a certain way of ruling by common courts, does not serve their interests well, to act with full confidence, because it is also the right they have today to the Constitutional Court with a constitutional complaint. And this participation of citizens in the control of the constitutionality of our law, its quality, including that Poland against the background and its neighbours, and all other countries in Europe, is a model of how to develop the case law that serves citizens, their freedoms and laws, how to solve sometimes very difficult problems, such as retirement age, which is a big problem for practically all European countries... This is also the problem that the Constitutional Tribunal has solved, the problem where judges have come to the conclusion that the proposed drafts of a law as important as the retirement age are well balanced by the state's development needs, but also the perspective of every citizen. It was on the eve of the trial that many of us really did not sleep, still thinking whether this decision on the constitutionality of this law would serve the citizens first and foremost, and if citizens, then also the Republic of Poland. A serious problem, often the subject of the Constitutional Tribunal's decisions, was access to courts and matters of case law of the general courts, administrative courts, and the Supreme Court. These courts, the Supreme Court and the Supreme Administrative Court, were natural partners of the Constitutional Court. Thus, every year, usually in April, the Constitutional Tribunal organized a special session for which all the highest officials of our state, its nobles, starting with the president, the presidents of both of these courts, whom I mentioned, were invited to perform managerial functions in constitutional institutions such as the National Bank of Poland, such as the Supreme Audit Chamber, also representatives of trade union organizations. Representatives of foreign courts were also invited when they could take part in such a meeting. Our case law was followed by the Constitutional Court of Germany and the Constitutional Court of Lithuania. The expression of this was that in each of these courts there were lawyers who knew the Polish language well, who followed our case law. And that was a phenomenon that was then called the dialogue of the courts. It was a dialogue of all constitutional courts, quite frequent, abundant, it was an exchange of experience, reflection on decisions and the belief that we are serving together almost 500 million citizens of the European Union. Representatives of various religions were also invited to these annual meetings. Usually there was an archbishop, an apostolic nuncio in Warsaw. Because he was a neighbour of the Court. These were natural gestures towards institutions, including non-state ones, which were to illustrate that the Republic is the common good of all citizens, that the highest command for constitutional judges is respect and strengthening, through case law, the content of the article. 10, which guaranteed a no, verbally now also guarantees, although it no longer exists as one of the anchors Good development of the state. When an important political party officer, who is also a parliamentarian, annihilates the judgment of the court - No matter what the case is. Even before that judgment was finalized, by final judgment, saying that it was not a judgment that he liked, which means that it was not necessary to review the judgment or to delete it, because there is simply no judgment, it is Article. 10, this foundation, the anchor of the Republic of Poland as a country, which certainly carefully, well, with attention, with mutual respect for the authorities will develop, becomes an empty record. Art. 2nd Constitution states that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state. The concept of "legal state" no longer exists in our constitutional language. The concept of rule of law is used because it is much easier to say in public the so-called rule of law, and it is much harder to say the rule of law. This shows that words are used to transfer power towards those institutions or groups that do not have constitutional rules, which are aimed at selfish handling their own interests by means of laws, which are difficult to call laws. Because when a bill is passed in violation of the rules of law... This concept of legislative conduct is a constitutional concept, so all its elements, described precisely in the Constitution, should be respected, and especially when, although this should apply to any law, when the law is circum-constitutional. Such a law was a law which was one of the foundations of the Republic of Poland, a law on the Supreme Court, and a law on the National Council of Courts. This happened in autumn 2017, and these laws were then proposed. In the contents of the... which was obvious that in the wrong faith, the complete takeover of a certain institution... And then, in turn, they were taken over in a mode without any mode, without the possibility of consulting experts, without the possibility of discussing in Parliament, especially at first reading, but then also in the Constitution... It is unimaginable in the Dutch Parliament or in the German Parliament that when a group of Members wants to discuss something further, check something out and 5 Members report to the head of parliament, he reacted as it happened once, when I was in the Chamber of Parliament, and it was precisely the situation that some Members wanted to ask a question, and then the marshal was a marshal, Mr Kuchciński, did not allow them to speak, would not allow them to submit a request. Parliamentarians, that is, representatives of the nation. Of course, sometimes there can be even very sharp verbal conflicts, but discussion, debate, checking, obtaining the best possible result, which in an equal way is meant to serve everyone... The Constitution says we're equal. It also ceased to be something that is obvious in creating the functioning of constitutional institutions, among others. like courts. Today, practically no one among those who have actively participated in the mastery of the courts, i.e. In such a... Well, it's kind of a plagiarism, but I guess with the consent of the Hungarians. In the Hungarian country there is a computer that decides which judge gets which case, but earlier each judge is accurately described, measured, all his judgments are checked and at the end there is such a specific algorithm. And the computer knows who to give a specific case to, so that it's convenient to decide whether it's for a business group or for a person. And trying to make it clear how this system was created... Although we also have a prosecutor who has publicly revealed that he has been given an order from the Attorney General to describe all the judges in the district where he is the Attorney General. Well, why? Is the judge of the district court, or is the judge of the appellate court an enemy of this state to gather information about him like a criminal? Is the judge of the district court the most of them? Is this some kind of suspicious man? No, it wasn't about that, like the Hungarians, it was moved. We don't know the logic of this algorithm, how it was created, how it was supplemented. And yet, judges are those public officials who enforce the law so that the provisions of Chapter II of the Constitution, freedom, rights and obligations of man and citizen, are respected daily in order to increase confidence in the state. Unfortunately, this hasn't been working very well lately. And now, without any criticism of the current Constitutional Court. It's rather surprising that this annual information, not about the previous year, but about 2020 and we don't know what that means with the annual information about important problems last year, I don't think she was there or something happened, anyway, we couldn't know it... It was clear to every judge, not only to the President of the Constitutional Tribunal, that this annual information, which is generally of great practical importance to the knowledge and interested citizens, not only those who work in the law departments of our universities or for some groups, for example. business, so people know how this law is shaped, what problems have arisen, to make strategic decisions for this institution or for this company... And only such a nation is developing, in which you can with full confidence shape your personal future, but also develop your business. This is what is not there, because it turns out that important laws without any mode are changed practically without Parliamentary debate. When we look at how often the codes are changed when we change some law, which is important for the legal system much below the code... Right now. That's what I found out. A new law on the internal service of the Prison Service is being carried out. The content of this project... If this law becomes a law and in the manner that has prevailed in the last few years, i.e. In fact, without debate, without explaining the constitutional issues that are important in this project... The point is that the purpose of this legislation, as it was written in the project, is to fight corruption among the Prison Service. As far as I know, there are people in the Prison Service who are dishonest and should naturally be prosecuted, punished and removed from the Prison Service, but it is not that the Prison Service officers are dishonest and dishonest people. As far as I know, the point is to create a police inside the prisons, which will provide additional information obtained by prison officers from prisoners on matters that might be of interest to the authorities. And this is already very dangerous for citizens' freedoms and rights. If you create a new police force using this new law, and the purpose of this is to collect information about people, perhaps there may also be such cases. Even if it were one case, it's one too many. That a man sentenced to 8 years in prison is encouraged to give a proper statement, and then the chance of parole becomes very large... Well, then we're really on the dark side of reality. It's a pretty long bill, probably 90 pages. What surprised me and worried me was that, by the way, In fact, this is in the title of the Act, because it is said that some other laws are amended by the provisions of important laws, because in the codes. We know very well that it is not necessary to say that sometimes taking out a word or inserting a word can change the entire codec institution. I hope that this law will be discussed and that it will not be introduced into the legal system in such a way, because it would be extremely dangerous primarily for the integrity of court proceedings. 'Cause what guarantees would we have that actually a statement made in a case isn't a practically extorted or dictated statement, and it's a witness's testimony that knows something, and No matter what the motives He answers the questions, tells the truth about the matter? And that should naturally be guaranteed, in particular, by the Code of Criminal Procedure, otherwise it's a threat that evidence will not be evidence... It will then be conducted in such a way as to destroy the one that should be destroyed, and then, especially with regard to... I would like to draw your attention to the judgment of the Constitutional Tribunal in the case of Article. 6th European Convention. This sentence, to my great sorrow, annihilates the art. 6 the European Convention on Human Rights, this provision which guarantees everyone the right to a fair trial before an independent court. The highest number of judgments sex tens of thousands of people have been made in the European Court of Human Rights on the basis of this provision. Because it's a court, a fair trial law, guaranteeing that the best, best-prepared lawyers go to court, that the moment or the day when a lawyer swears an oath, whether it's in front of the president or in front of the head of parliament, he becomes a senior state officer and doesn't have to come to court with fear of whether the minister's anger will deprive him of his judgment... The point is whether the minister's anger can cause the judge to be punished in some way, to be transferred to another court without justification. And this art. 6, which guarantees not only citizens of the European Union... And there's almost half a billion of us. But the European Convention on Human Rights is being decided by more than 800 million people around the world, because the overseas territories of Britain and France are also at stake here. So it's art. 6 This is one of the absolute foundations of this good for all Europe, Europe, whose institutions and how they function, envy the whole world. I'm afraid what our Constitutional Court did... Well, I'm very sorry that the sentence came because it brought us closer to the Russian standard. It was even more powerful because the Russian Pride simply changed the constitution and allowed in every case when Russia was losing the trial in Strasbourg to challenge the judgment of the human rights tribunal. And the Russian court order... Well, no matter what we think, it's hard to believe that judges in Russia have real guarantees of independence, that they're chosen by the most honest, best prepared, and that they don't have to be afraid by ruling. The anger of power. This is how we approached the Russian standard, unfortunately. See: in the Russian Constitution, they added a provision that, even before Russia came out of the Council of Europe system, was practically abolishing the ruling... The point is that it was not the question of protecting freedom and fundamental rights that mattered. And maybe that's also why there's not much enthusiasm, much desire in our Constitutional Court, that once a year... this annual information shouldn't be so... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Gentlemen, please...]] ...written how it was done this year. Basically, there are graphs here mostly. Students use tricks to make it look like their master's degree is longer. There are graphs, but they don't tell us anything. [[Mr. President...]] And that's a request for next year. I understand that next year there will be another annual information and citizens, including naturally parliamentarians, who will learn what matters relevant to the Polish state and to every citizen have been dealt with in the Constitutional Court. Not everyone has to share them, but everyone should be convinced that such a judgment serves citizens and the Republic well. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u359	Thank you very much, Mr President. Especially that last sentence is memorable. Indeed, this situation, which we are already experiencing for the second time, although earlier there was an explanation of the covideus, we can no longer accept. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u360	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I would like to draw your attention to one thing. We are considering the important problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2020. We've heard a lot from this side of the room. I'm showing the side of the room where there's not a single senator. The fact that we have no respect for the Court of Julia Przyłębska. And what respect do the Senators of the PiS show him when not one of them is in the Chamber when examining the point concerning the presentation of information on the problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal over the past year? Of course, we also know what this might result from. There's this great movie, Roman Polanski's thriller. The title of this movie is Ghost Author. And we're dealing with a ghost author because we got the information under which Julia Przyłębska is signed, but we haven't seen the president in the Senate since the beginning of this term. We have never seen her, despite the fact that the rules on this matter are very clear. Each of us, each of us, could read the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which clearly states that the provision of the article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act on the organisation and procedure of proceedings before the Constitutional Tribunal provides that the President of the Court of Justice shall, on a yearly basis, submit to the Sejm and the Senate information on the relevant problems arising from the Court's activities and case law. In addition, in accordance with paragraph 2. 3 the information referred to in paragraph. 1, the President of the Court shall transmit... Among the entities mentioned there is, of course, also, as I said, the Senate. In its commentary on this regulation on the Constitutional Court, in its 1997 commentary, we read that the Court informs the Sejm and the Senate of the important problems arising from the Court's activities and case law. This information is not a vote, but it is stated in this comment that the treatment of information by any House of Parliament is left to be governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and the Senate. And it's regulated. The Rules of Procedure of the 1990 Senate provide that the Senate's deliberations are in particular covered by reports and information submitted to the Senate by the Constitutional Tribunal, which is mentioned in the first place. In addition, in Article 2, paragraph 1 is replaced by the following: Article 33 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Senate's Rules of Procedure we can read that the right to attend Senate meetings has the persons listed in Article. 32, including the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. It should be assumed that the right of the President of the Court to participate in Senate meetings is functionally linked to the obligation, I stress: the obligation to submit information by him. Ladies and gentlemen, you may wonder why I am focusing on procedural issues. I will not refer substantively to the document, because that would mean that I accept such a formula that the President, Julia Przyłębska, presents the report to us in such a form that it is not the information of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. It shall be expressly governed by the provisions: the President shall provide that information. We did not only see Julia Przyłębska as the person in charge of the Court at the committee meeting or in plenary, but we did not see anyone she could represent the Court. I'll never accept the argument from the PiS senators again. I wanted to say that I'm saying this by looking them in the eye, but it's hard to look 40 empty seats in the eye. When they say, in support of the President's position, that there is no respect for the Court. And how do the Senators of the PiS show this respect, none of whom honored the plenary session of the Senate at which this point is discussed? I would also remind you that the law provides that this information is not presented to the senators. Okay, here's the As individuals, entities, but to the Senate as a collegial body, which considers matters at plenary meetings. There is no person more competent to submit information on the Court than the President in plenary, I will already say minimalistically, or any person authorised by the President. It's hard to talk about a show when there's no representative. The Senator rapporteur would normally refer the position of the committee at the Senate meeting, but it is difficult to refer to something we could not talk about. At this point it is very warm and very warm to thank the former Presidents of the Court, who show how to treat the service of the Republic of Poland and public duties even after they have completed their duties when they are already judges at rest. Thank you very much to the former Presidents, the Judges, President Rzepliński and President Zdziennicki and President Stepnia, who was at the committee meeting. Article 4 is replaced by the following: Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 6 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate also provide that senators may submit no longer than a minute's period of time a question relating to this item on the agenda. I would like to ask the President of Julia Przyłębska why she never appeared in the Senate plenary to present this information during this term of office. If the President can't give me an answer while in the Chamber, and he can't, because he's not, then, of course, I ask for a written reply, which he is obliged to do immediately. Ladies and gentlemen! In the current practice, the Presidents of the Court have always provided such information, in exceptional cases authorising another judge to replace and submit such information. Without a doubt, the President of the Court is required to provide information to the Senate in accordance with Article. Article 13 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Act, the information is the subject of the Senate's deliberations in accordance with Article. Article 45 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3, and senators in a normal situation have the right to ask such a person, in this case the President of the Court, questions. Ladies and gentlemen, it must also be pointed out that the lack of fundamental respect concerns not only the Senate plenary sitting, but also the meeting of the Legislative Commission, on which neither was the President, the Legislative Commission, the subject of which is in particular the general legislative issue, the consistency of the law and the consideration of constitutional amendments. Normally, the president would present it in our sitting. Ladies and gentlemen, summing up and ending, I would like to say that the introduction to the Constitution of the Republic of Poland indicates that it is necessary to understand all the provisions contained in this Constitution as a coherent system. And we can also read there about the cooperation of the authorities. The commentator of the Constitutional Act points out that there is also an obligation to inform the various public authorities about the cooperation of the authorities. The obligation of information absolutely does not exclude the independence of the judiciary and the separation of the system of the Court. This only means that statements and parliamentary discussions must not concern matters pending at the Court, not cases already resolved, which are presented in information from the activities. As the practice shows, so far the Presidents of the Court have taken the obligation to provide this information seriously. In conclusion, I must say that I have no doubt that the law, practice, constitution, law on the Court and Senate Rules indicate the duty of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to participate actively or to replace him in the work of the Senate. Only one thing must be noted with sadness: the person breaking the law in this regard is formally the President of the Constitutional Tribunal. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u361	Thank you very much, senator. The floor will be taken by Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u362	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation is unacceptable. Madam President, Judge Przyłębska believes that by sending the text of the report by post or by the bishop, he is fulfilling the rules for reporting to the High Chamber. This is another such situation, and it is good that the marshal decided that, nevertheless, it was intended to prevent discussion of the report. We can talk about it, discuss it, and present our position. In a situation where Judge Przyłębska does not put herself before the Senate to report, to answer questions, it is clear to me that she is not only breaking the constitution which speaks about the cooperation of the authorities, because she does not want to cooperate with the Senate, but also breaking the Constitutional Tribunal Act, because Okay, I'll say it again. Sending the text by post or by the bishop is not a report before the Senate. In this situation, he commits a delicacy that qualifies her to be brought before the Court of State in the future. She's breaking the bill, breaking the constitution, and she should be aware of it. Well, there can't be a situation like this: I don't like someone, and I like someone if I don't like someone, I'm not coming. Judge Przyłębska is not a private person. He's in charge. In fact, he resents the fact that some people don't define her function. But even if they don't define it, they don't fully call it a function, she has responsibilities. She states that she is the President of the Constitutional Tribunal and as President she has her duties to fulfil. A judge who breaks the law? What kind of situation is this? The current Court is coming downhill, evenly slippery. I remember and remember the Constitutional Tribunal before a few terms. After all, here in the Senate, we changed the rules so that the Court's rulings could be implemented efficiently. And that was, I don't remember exactly, but it seems like about 200, 190... [[400.]] 400. After all, it shows how cooperative the Senate was, how they wanted to cooperate. And that was model cooperation. What happened? I also think Judge Przyłębska doesn't come here not to answer questions. Not only because he doesn't like us, but also because he doesn't answer questions, because this Court meets political orders. It's clear to me. And it wasn't just about the human rights convention that PiS politicians first questioned, and then the Court questioned, in such a crucial... Well, I never thought that the Convention on Human Rights would be challenged by the Constitutional Tribunal in Poland. But also an anti-abortion bill? It was clearly a political order. I will not mention other things, but there have been many such cases, and there have been many such decisions, which were a response to a political order, not only an answer, but also a follow-up to these orders. First there was the wording of the expectation, and then there was the ruling of the Constitutional Court. I would also like to ask what it's like to set up warehouses for particular cases. After all, after disclosure, which judges would sit there, they were changed. What are the rules for electing the Chairs of these configurations? And why was the possibility for the audience to attend the hearings eliminated? Internet? That's not the kind of transparency the legislator was talking about. Trials before courts are public. You can only watch on the Internet cases that are before the Constitutional Tribunal. Okay, what's in front of the cameras, you might suspect... However, the principle is that the public may participate in these cases in the courts and also in the Court. Of course, there are emergency situations when the court decides that the case is being dealt with in secret, or, of course, any danger, even if a pandemic... But the pandemic is gone. And anyway, this withdrawal and non-enlistment of the public was introduced as a rule. Already before the pandemic. So I'd like to ask you about these things. This is not an option, as a senator, which is limited to my right to participate in the debate on the Court's report. Therefore, I ask the question and I ask Judge Przyłębska for a written reply: on what basis are the compositions established and why have these compositions been amended several times? I would also like to thank the two former Presidents and to say that in your time we received a report, in accordance with a principle, from the previous year and not from two years ago. That also indicates how this Court works. At the moment, the Court is not in a position to report on 2021 in 2022, but only to report on 2020. And when will it be from 2021? Next year? This shows not only how you treat the House as Judge Przyłębska, but also how efficient this Court is, how well it is managed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u363	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u364	First of all, I'd like to thank the marshal for organizing it like this. And I think we should do this every year, although I hope that eventually President Przyłębska will be here before the Senate because she is committed to it. So that I would like to ask your marshal to make such a letter as to remind you... to give all these arguments put forward by the head of our Legislative Commission, Senator Kwiatkowski, to remind us on what basis we invite you, and once again, to judge Przyłębska, the President here, to the Senate, to write it down, reminding us. The second point I would like to say: I remember the previous term, and also the present Mr. Marshal Borusewicz... I remind you of the changes that have taken place, among others. in 2016, what important, important changes were these, how they were treated by society. We had here in the gardens. Mr. Marshal, of course, still remembers. The demonstrations seemed to be extremely important for society and for the Senate. I regret to say that today we are getting used to this situation. From the president, we hear something like, "I don't have your coat, and what are you gonna do to me?" Because I suspect that we are not able to bring the president here, the only thing we can do is remind her of this duty, but also inform the public about it. I mean, we have a duty to say that President Przyłębska does not come and does not report, does not report before the Senate. And this is important not only because we can ask a question, but also because of what President Rzepliński was talking about: that it was always for us, the senators, and for thousands, hundreds of thousands of lawyers in Poland that was a law lesson. There was a lot to learn from this report, all of them reaching for it. At the moment, few people are looking into this report, and the Court has turned into a closed bastion, which is closed to people, to the media, to politicians too, or rather, I would say, by some part of politicians. A certain part of politicians, which I regret. All those emotions that were in our previous term and that we've already passed... That doesn't mean, I hope, that we're used to a state that we can call a state for the functioning of a pathological state. That's what I'd call him. Because it's kind of pathology. I'm not talking about the absence of the President here right now, I'm talking about the state of functioning right now, e.g. the way the Sejm conducts the regulations, etc., etc., all this is a certain pathological state, i.e. unnatural and abnormal. Because we are talking here about certain obligations arising from the laws enshrined in the Constitution or in various laws, but there is also such a thing as the Uzus, the Uzus, which caused all the presidents to come here, to answer questions and report, especially since, as Marshal Borusewicz rightly pointed out, the Senate is cooperating with the Court of State, for example by carrying out these judgments of the Court. And I asked the chairman of the Legislative Commission, who I am a member of, that we should probably execute some sentences, because we're probably behind. Let me remind you that at some point we started to implement them, there were plenty of them, Mr President said that about 400. And it turns out we don't have any catching up left. Why? Why is it that there are no judgments at the moment that we can deal with here for the benefit of the citizens? Because these were often really important things for one citizen or group, a small group of citizens, but important and important. We remember things like that. Maybe it'd be worth it... I hope that next year, in the context of the report, we will bring up such matters that we have been able to deal with through the work of the Court of State. We senators, thanks to the work of the Court of State... [[Constitutional.]] ...sorry, the Constitutional Court, we could correct the law in Poland. And it was such a constant dialogue, a discussion. The presidents came here, they didn't have any problem answering questions, but they've always aroused great respect and respect from the Senate, that's what we have to say. Perhaps the judge thought that something like this was missing, but I wouldn't see any guilt here. In the Senate or in the senators. And duty is a duty, and it must simply be done. I would like to express my thanks to the retired judges, the former presidents who visited us here today despite such a late time, and I would like to thank you very much for this. I hope that, after all, we, the senators here, and perhaps those who listen to us, will bring information to society that this is how it is done. Perhaps we can arrange a press conference, perhaps write another letter to the President of Przyłębska. But what's going on right now, perhaps no more emotion than in the previous term... Well, despite the passage of time and what happened in the meantime, we still have the state of pathology I told you about. We cannot accept this, nor can we move on to the agenda. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u365	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to assure you that the letter you mentioned will be formulated as well as the media will be interested in this case. Thanking once again to the Presidents for honoring us in the Upper House, I would remind you that in the previous term, President Rzepliński, while he was the President, stood in this House and did not experience particularly pleasant questions from the newly euphoric victory of the Party of Law and Justice. However, you faced it and raised respect for it, our side, as well as, and I know this from the talks of the claustrophobic, many colleagues from the Law and Justice. And this is how we imagine it, because we are able to take care of the parliamentary culture of discussion and lead to a dispute on arguments, not on some trips ad personam. But we will not give up in this work to restore proper cooperation between constitutional authorities. Thank you very much again, gentlemen. For the record, Senator Szwed has made his speech to the minutes, and the senators Bogdan Borusewicz and Krzysztof Kwiatkowski have asked the President of the Constitutional Tribunal to answer questions in writing. So that I ask you to formulate these questions and we will send them to you. The discussion is closed. I state that the Senate, in the absence of the President of the Constitutional Tribunal or any other authorised representative of the Constitutional Tribunal, considered the point: information on the relevant problems arising from the activities and case law of the Constitutional Tribunal in 2020. I'm shutting this point down. I'm declaring a recess until tomorrow... until today at 10 a.m. [[Messages.]] Messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u366	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A joint meeting of 3 committees, the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the examination of applications submitted to the Act on the Promotion and Rehabilitation of Minors will be held at 8.15 p.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media on the examination of requests submitted to the Act amending the Act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other acts will take place at 9.30 a.m. in room 176. The joint meeting of the Environment Commission and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on the examination of applications submitted at the forty-fifth Senate meeting to the Act amending the Environmental Law and some other laws will take place at 9.45 p.m. in room 217. The meeting of the Infrastructure Commission on the examination of the proposals submitted during the debate on the Law amending the Construction Law and some other laws will take place at 9.45 p.m. in Room 176. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-06-29-senat-45-1.u367	Thank you very much. I repeat, time-out until 10:00 p.m. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 00 minutes 24]]
