ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u1	High Izbo! Resume session. I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations the Members of Bożena Żalewska and Daniel Milewski, who will keep the minutes and the list of speakers. I kindly ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u2	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that today will be the meeting of the Commission: - Infrastructure - at 3 p.m. 11, - Culture and means of communication jointly with the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy - at 3 p.m. 10, - to the European Union at 3 p.m. 11, - Health at about an hour. 11, - Culture and Media - at 3 p.m. 12.30. I will also read the message about the meetings of the teams. The following parliamentary teams will be held today: - The Lower Silesian Parliamentary Team - at 3 p.m. 9, - West Pomeranian Parliamentary Team - at 3 p.m. 11. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u3	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen! We're at a very difficult time. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] On my T-shirt I have a non-accidental inscription: Achtung Russia. This is very significant, although it should be: Achtung Putin, because he wants to conflict the Russian people with the democratic world, part of which is Ukraine. I am convinced that I am expressing the opinion of everyone here, saying decisively: not the aggressive urges of Putin - Putin the murderer, Putin the terrorist, Putin the criminal. Long live Ukraine! We're with you. We're solidarity. Ukraine! Down with Putin! Ukraine! Down with Putin! Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Formal applications have been submitted. Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, Mr. Chairman.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The situation is dramatic, bombs fall on neighbouring Ukraine, are at risk of human life and health, war continues in the air, at sea and on land. This is a real war nearest to Poland since 1945. A country with nuclear weapons attacked Ukraine. Belarus attacked Ukraine. Faced with this, we expect solidarity and responsibility of political forces and all citizens in Poland. I ask for it, I appeal, and I demand it. I ask all political forces in Poland to restrain emotions, solidarity and responsibility. I declare my willingness to cooperate and cooperate. We expect a debate in Parliament, we expect a National Security Council to be convened, we expect a joint speech from the President of the Republic and all political leaders. I ask my fellow countrymen, I ask all Polish people to cooperate and solidarity at this difficult time (Dzinek), to involve the local government community, to provide assistance, to cooperate with the European Union and NATO, to make decisions as quickly as possible. There is no room for political clown, there is no room for politics, there is room for solidarity and responsibility. This is not just a time for political rehearsal. This is a time of civil and social trial. Building - and today even rebuilding - the national community is the basic reason of the state of the Republic. This right of state we will demand, this right of state we will present, this right of state we will seek. Poland must pass the test in the face of security and peace threats in the world. Poland must pass the test of caring for its own safety, its allies, its citizens. Long live Poland! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President, for this vote. Another formal proposal - Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050. Let's stick to the time, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you, Marshal, for those words that I am deeply convinced are coming from the hearts of all of us. You represented us today. Indeed, the brutal, bandit attack of the Russian Federation and Belarus on Ukraine changes the world. Nothing will ever be as it was. This isn't a business war. This is a war of values - values on which all free states, all countries of the West are built. This is the war of the rule of law against thieving and corruption. This is war. democracy against dictatorship. This is a war of personal freedom against slavery. This is finally a war of freedom of speech against a state lie. Today we should respond very responsibly with sanctions, solidarity and national cohesion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is the great responsibility that lies with us in this House. Therefore, I will repeat Simon Holovnia's appeal from the day before yesterday: it is time for us to conclude, all the political forces in this House, a pact for security. This is absolutely crucial. Mrs. Marshal! I was wondering whether to make a formal request to put the Prime Minister's information on state security to the vote at this point, but I believe that this is a situation so obvious that the Prime Minister should speak today and that today we should complete our deliberations on this item...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u7	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u8	...that I won't file this formal application because he's obvious. And I am convinced that the Prime Minister will implement this proposal, which comes from all the benches of this House. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u9	Thank you very much, sir. As you know, the Prime Minister is still involved in international talks, in support of Ukraine. I'm sure if time allows him, he'll be here with us. However, talks are important at the moment and the Prime Minister is taking part in them. [[There is also no more important matter than information to the House on this matter, Marshal.]] Action is more important. What's more important is actions, because they can stop what's happening right now. Please, Mr Przemysław Koperski, the Left Club, the formal proposal. But now, please, let's stick to the minutes and formulas of the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u10	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is a black day in history, the modern history of Europe. With the situation we've had since this morning, we haven't met in decades. The rights and integrity of our eastern neighbour, Ukraine, have been violated. From this place I wanted to thank very warmly all local governments in Poland, who in a group way, declared support for refugees from Ukraine. I wanted to thank from this place very warmly all Poles who are now helping our friends from the East. I also wanted to say that today we are all friends and guardians of Ukrainians who are already in the territory of the Republic of Poland. Poland is becoming their second home today. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But let's not forget, too, your marshal, those Poles who live on a daily basis in Ukraine, who live in Donbasa, in Kharkov, who live in Kamienica, who live in Kiev, who live in Lviv. We just owe them that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u11	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u12	I ask you, formally, to convene the Senior Convention to discuss sanctions for Russia. Thank you very much, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u13	Mr President, you know very well that the Convention does not settle these issues. Talks are going on. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition, formal proposal. And please, let's hold on to this minute. I no longer expect this to be a formal conclusion, because we have a really dramatic situation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u14	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Our eastern neighbour, Ukraine, was attacked by Russia. There's a regular war going on. Since then, the world is no longer the same and the House should also switch to extraordinary work. We can't deal with current questions today, but we should take a leadership exam. This place is the most important place in the Republic of Poland. Your marshal should take a break right now. The Senior Convention should be convened and we should establish a formal mode of operation under these abnormal conditions, because we cannot be indifferent to what is happening in the east. If independent, independent, integrally safe Ukraine falls, the security of the Republic will also change. Don't go over that motion. Your marshal may order a recess, consult with Marshal Witek. You should call the Seniors' Convention so the House can...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u15	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u16	...could prepare for action in a situation of war in the east. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u17	Okay, sir. Thank you very much. We're finishing our formal proposals. We're moving on to the agenda. I would add that at the moment there is a meeting with the President in the context of the next steps. We'll keep you posted. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Questions on current matters. I would remind you that the question must not last more than 2 minutes and that the answer must not last more than 5 minutes. Only the Member asking the question shall have the right to raise an additional question. The additional question may not last more than 1 minute and the supplementary answer may not last more than 3 minutes. The Marshal of the Sejm may agree to extend the speaking time to the additional question. The first question on the development and financing of innovative medicine in order to improve the quality of treatment of patients was prepared by Members of the Law and Justice: Barbara Dziuk, Monika Pawłowska, Lydia Burzyńska and Joanna Milczanowska. The question is addressed to the Minister of Health. The question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u18	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The development and dissemination of modern and innovative solutions in health care is another important direction of the Ministry of Health's strategy. Innovative health solutions make it possible to increase both the effectiveness and effectiveness of treatment, as well as the use of human resources or infrastructure. The development and dissemination of solutions combining elements of telecommunications, computer science and medicine is a very important direction in this area. It should be noted that also increasing the scientific potential of the health sector is a very important strengthening and action for the safety and improvement of the quality of treatment of patients. Therefore, I have a question for the Minister. What are the financial possibilities of the Ministry of Health to support innovative medical solutions to both shorten and improve the patient's treatment quality? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u19	Thank you kindly, Member. The questions are answered by the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Health, Minister Waldemar Kraska. Please kindly, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u20	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Indeed, my voice is breaking because we are in a very special situation, but we must continue to work. But the government, and so are we. as the Ministry of Health, we declare all assistance to Ukrainian citizens in terms of health. As regards the financing and development of innovation in medicine in order to improve the quality of treatment for patients, Commissioner, this is one of the priority actions carried out by the Ministry of Health. We are talking about the development of eHealth, but also telemedicine. The main assumptions are to provide the patient with the best possible care and access to information on his/her health status, but also to provide adequate support to medical staff, improve the functioning of medicinal products and increase the efficiency, quality and availability of benefits. The recent period of pandemic has shown that the development of digital solutions is justified and allows the health sector to be relieved while maintaining the quality of its services. The benefits of spreading innovative digital solutions in the area of health include: optimization of resources, beneficial impact on reducing queues to providers, better service quality by introducing high standards and increasing access to professionals. Let me remind you that we already introduced an e-prescription, so important during the pandemic period in 2020. The prescription which is now legible, even if the patient loses it, is to be reproduced, is valid throughout the year without having to visit a doctor. This solution was definitely successful during the risk period of the coronavirus. We've also introduced e-scanning. This has greatly facilitated the registration of patients with medicinal products. The patient's online account. This account is used to keep you informed about your health, e.g. results. A test for Coronavirus, prescribed medications, about our contact with the health care department. At the moment we have more than 15 million accounts in Poland. Also during the period of the pandemic of Coronavirus, I think, it worked well so-called. Domestic medical care, when patients over 55 years of age were treated with a positive pulsoximeter test. They could have been, and were, monitored by the coordination centre, if the sats were unsatisfactory, had contact with medical care. Also in this program we are currently developing solutions for so-called. remote stethoscope, so-called. a telemedical band and a remote spirometer. It is very important that the patient is also monitored while at the same time getting custody and having a sense of security. Also during the pandemic period we introduced the so-called. system EWP, i.e. Registration of Entry to Poland, system which was also used by the Border Guard. We've seen what kind of people are coming in and what kind of quarantine they need to be. When it comes to teleporadio, which may have been a little too used during the pandemic period, I think it has fulfilled its role at a time when the patient could have obtained medical advice without direct contact with the doctor. We have also introduced an e-spirometer and an e-stetoscope program - and it is already starting to work in the form of piloting. As far as funding is concerned, Commissioner, we want to finance almost two sources. There will be quite large resources for this, firstly, from the National Plan for Reconstruction, and secondly, from EU programmes - mainly the European Digital Development Fund and the European Funds for Social Development. With KPO we want to introduce three central digital services: firstly, tools supporting health analysis, secondly, the development of an algorithm of artificial intelligence, i.e. support for the doctor, for his decision-making, and the construction of a central repository of medical data. We also want to completely decipher the medical documentation and I think it is very important, it will definitely improve its availability and character. The next fund to be used is the European Digital Development Fund. Here too we have many tasks, among others. improving cybersecurity, which - I think - is also very important in the context of today's situation, because we see that war is not only on the typical field of so-called. Military, but also cyberspace. That's why we want our medical systems to be much more secure. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u21	Thank you, Minister. The additional question is asked by Mrs Barbara Dziuk. Politely, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u22	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Thank you so much for answering my questions. Here I wanted to highlight the really important role that innovation plays in the development and application of artificial intelligence, advanced analytical methods in the area of health protection. The eHealth service is also a very important element - we know that medical documentation does not yet work as it should in the digital system. And here's the question, Minister, how will the approach to medical records in this area of digitalisation be in the coming years, because this will somewhat improve some kind of action for both the patient (the bell) and all medical services. I would very much ask for such a statement, explaining how it is seen in the context of the Ministry and how it will be and how it is currently financed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u23	Thank you very much, Member. Minister Waldemar Kraska. I ask kindly, Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u24	Mrs. Marshal! Mrs. Member! Indeed, we attach great importance to electronic documentation, because it makes it much easier to operate in the system, not only when we are talking about the provider, but also about settling with the National Health Fund. From 1 July this year we have already introduced an obligation of electronic medical records, and from 1 January next year will also be accounting with the NFZ on the basis of electronic documentation. I think this will greatly improve and improve the quality of health management. I also think this process is running quite smoothly. Although perhaps especially older people - I am talking about health workers - are not convinced of this process, it seems that everyone is convinced of this, because it greatly improves health care work, improves quality and accelerates the provision of services. So I think that the money that will be directed from these various programs will definitely improve the quality of Polish health care activities. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u25	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the question prepared by the Members of the Left on the preparation of Poland for humanitarian aid to citizens and citizens of Ukraine, the creation of a humanitarian corridor, the adoption of a significant influx of refugees, as well as the preparation of the education system for the potential need to welcome the children of refugees from Ukraine and to include them in its functioning, to provide psychological and pedagogical support, caring and educational support, and to prepare Polish students for cooperation with their peers from Ukraine, in particular plans of the Ministry of Education and Science to include non-governmental organisations specialising in anti-discrimination education in this process. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The first question is asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska. Come on in, ma'am. [[Your marshal, I'm sorry, has the order changed? I don't know about that.]] The order has changed. I'm asking for information, okay? [[I didn't get the information.]] I'm not responsible for this anymore. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What exactly are the government's preparations for accepting refugees from Ukraine with an unforeseen number, possibly a million or more? What is the specific state of preparation of the humanitarian corridor by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Will the Polish consulates in Kharkiv, Odessa, Łuck, Vinnica and Lviv be strengthened by human resources and procedures to speed up the granting of humanitarian visas? How specifically will the Border Guard team be expanded, which is now at only 5,000. refugees from the Polish-Belarusian border do not keep up with the process of asylum applications and international protection? How exactly is reception and accommodation logistics planned for refugees, temporary, temporary and targeted? What is the state of government aid and cooperation in this area with local governments and humanitarian, Polish and international organisations, and civil organisations? Will the Ministry of Justice agree with the courts to waive the practice of automatic detention and to direct refugees to guard centres? These centres are already breaking in stitches, and the conditions in them are worse than in Polish prisons. There are no Border Guard staff, no psychological, legal and medical assistance. Is the situation on the labour market monitored by the voivodship offices? Are procedures for obtaining work permits for refugees from Ukraine being made more flexible? What government proposes integration policies in this situation? And what are the current arrangements with the European Union for the acceptance and relocation of refugees? Finally, what are the preparations of the Ministry of Education and Science regarding the influx of children and young people of school age in Poland? What arrangements are made in this regard (the Bell) between the Ministry and local authorities, including the necessary increase in the educational part of the general subsidy for local governments? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u27	Thank you very much. Under the authority of the President of the Council of Ministers, Minister Dariusz Piontkowski, Minister of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u28	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Members, The questions she has just asked are addressed to several resorts. I am able to answer the part of the questions that primarily concern education. It is worth noting, however, that all other ministries are currently preparing for possible developments in Ukraine. Today, we still do not know what the consequences of the Russian attack will be, including as far as migrants or refugees are concerned. However, the voivodships are already taking steps to ensure that, for example, the state of the accommodation base, which facilities can be offered by local governments, should there be a larger wave of refugees at our borders. I am sure there will also be a strengthening of the services, the border, but these are issues that the Minister of Home Affairs and Administration will possibly be able to talk about. When it comes to children and young people who may possibly appear with refugees from Ukraine, the Polish legal system is prepared for the situation of taking care of foreigners. For several years now, regulations have been in place that clearly speak about the fact that foreigners appearing in Poland can exercise the same rights as children and Polish youth. They are therefore obliged to fulfil their obligation to study in regional and regional schools. In primary schools, it is an obligation to accept these children, in other schools, depending on the number of places. These children, these young people, would be accepted on the basis of documents issued by the mother school. If such documents could not be presented, then a statement from the parents would suffice. These documents don't even have to be translated, so the procedure is very simple. The principal of the school is essential here, and he makes the decision to which class such a student would be admitted. This will, of course, depend on how many years of education a student has left, who wants to continue his studies in Polish schools. We realize that not every foreigner who comes to Poland knows Polish to such a degree, in order to be able to participate in classes immediately. Hence, we provide for several forms of possible assistance that may be provided at the school premises. Firstly, additional classes in Polish can be devoted at least 2 hours a week. Let me stress, a minimum of 2 hours, because we realize that especially in the initial period it is worth to make it more hours. Hence, we define only a minimum level, but we do not define this maximum level. There is also no specific time in which a student can receive such assistance. The second possibility of helping such students is that, before a student is assigned to a class that already operates in school, a preparatory unit may be set up, which should not count more than 12 pupils. There can be a minimum of 20 to 26 hours of classes, including Polish language learning. Other subjects can also be devoted primarily to learning Polish language. The establishment of such a preparatory unit depends primarily on the decision of the school board. We spend extra money in education subsidies on the importance of creating such a branch. In addition, you can benefit from the help of the language master of the country of origin. In this case, I understand, it's the Ukrainian language. Such a person would be employed as a teacher's help to facilitate communication between a student or Ukrainian students and Polish teachers. In addition, compensatory classes may also occur from individual subjects. As far as university students are concerned, we have extensive autonomy of Polish universities. The Minister of Education asked the rectors of the university to take advantage of the opportunities they already have so as to possibly accept a larger group of students, to exempt them from their fees. We have an agreement with Ukraine on mutual recognition of documents, so there should be no major problems regarding formal admission to college. We realize that among these people there may also be people of Polish origin. They can also benefit from special assistance, including material assistance, from individual universities. Of course, the scale of the aid will determine whether any additional and how large (The Bell) funding should be in the field of education or science.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u29	Thank you kindly, Minister. The supplementary question is asked by Mr Robert Obaz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u30	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You've been quite detailed about the opportunities offered by schools, but you've been through quite smoothly, and you've escaped that initial question, assuming, unfortunately, we don't know anything that's going to happen right now. The Polish Government should probably have scenarios as to how the number of refugees can be, how they will come to the country, how they will be deployed. You were talking about the voivodships, about the fact that they asked the local government where they could provide accommodation to those people where they could secure their seats. Some local authorities also asked the commercial question whether the government had planned, and what, the funds for salaries for schools, for psychologists - so the question we asked earlier in this question - for local governments to cover the costs of the stay of these refugees. Let us hope that there will be as few of them as possible and that this (Bell) war started by crazy Putin in Ukraine will end as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u31	Thank you very much, sir. The answer will be given to Minister Dariusz Piontkowski. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u32	Mr. Speaker! First of all, we need to confirm clearly what you were talking about. Today, no one really knows what the scale of this war will be and what the number of refugees will eventually be. That's why no one can tell you in particular today if it's gonna be $1,000, 2,000, 50,000. or a much larger number of refugees. I know that numbers reaching hundreds of thousands or millions are impressive, but today we don't really know what the scale of possible migration and refugeeism will be. The government is preparing, it has different plans, hence the questions of the voivods that I spoke about at the very beginning. This is intended to verify in individual voivodships, in the first place in border voivodships, the possibility of accepting this first possible wave of refugees and then deploying them in the rest of the country. It will also be similar with educational aid, because these students will be sent to schools in those areas where there will be centres for refugees. So today we are not able to say in which cities, where specific municipalities or where there will be more students from Ukraine. I also said that this financial assistance will, of course, depend on the scale. If this is not too large a scale, we will be able to allocate additional funds to those local authorities who will additionally receive pupils from Ukraine as part of the educational subsidy reserve. It should be made clear that already in the Polish educational system more than 100,000 learns. Ukrainian students - in primary schools about 30,000, less than 10,000. in high schools, a similar number in techniques, several tens of thousands in police schools and similarly several tens of thousands in Polish universities. So we have already experienced with foreign students from Ukraine. Some local authorities already have a lot of experience in the faster integration of these students with Polish students. We know that it could happen that we're gonna need some pedagogical and psychological help. After all, there are prepared educators to carry it, psychologists employed in schools. They are to take care of every student who goes to school, including possibly a foreign student. If you need even stronger pedagogical and psychology help, that's what pedagogical and psychology counseling is for, where specialists can still provide some additional help. In order to make this aid more financially effective, in the last year we have led to an increase in the importance of setting up the preparatory unit, which I mentioned, by 33%. So we have significantly increased funding for the creation of such branches. If this scale is very large, it is clear that additional resources from the state budget will then be needed to help (the bell) those local authorities who will have students from Ukraine in a much larger number. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u33	Thank you kindly, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Question prepared by Members of Law and Justice: Tadeusz Chrzan, Agnieszka Soin, Filip Kaczyński and Mariusz Trepka on additional support for clean urban transport from European funds. The question is addressed to the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy. Mr Tadeusz Chrzan is the first question to be asked. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u34	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, Unfortunately, we are still living in a difficult time of pandemic, when different restrictions and restrictions affect us all, affect the economy, affect our cities. I would like to point out here that, in particular, urban transport has been severely affected by the pandemic. We all remember the restrictions on filling buses, and many passengers gave up on urban transport. At the same time, it should be noted that most carriers, most companies have maintained their offer with a reduced number of passengers. Therefore, there is probably a need to support this area of services, this area of the economy in addition. Hence, Minister, my question. As part of EU funds in the 2014-2020 financial perspective, I am thinking here, for example. on the Operational Programme for Infrastructure and Environment - do you provide additional support for clean urban transport? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u35	Thank you very much, sir. The Minister of Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda will answer the question. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u36	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank your marshal very warmly for the words he said at the beginning of today's session. We know very well that, at such a difficult time as war, and especially the war in our nearest neighbours, when bombs are flying, when attacks have been assumed from all possible directions, it is very important to unite together, to have no differences and to strive for such a policy of unity to be more widespread. I think that, as part of these actions, unity with our neighbours on the western side is very much needed. Cohesion policy is one of those elements that we can certainly mention as an area for the creation of a community, a large European community that helps countries belonging to the European Union to resist different adversities. E.g. It's about building a big, big community. This is particularly evident in these cities, as Members have said, where COVID is also followed by a situation where transport is limited. We know very well, we are aware that the pandemic has caused major losses in urban transport. According to our information, in the early period of the pandemic, the number of courses, the number of passengers decreased by up to 80%. For this reason, we reviewed the sixth priority axis of the Operational Programme for Infrastructure and Environment, which was dedicated to support this sector. A small amount of funds, although available, allowed us to decide on the support of the voivodship centres, which are beneficiaries of the operational programme, totalling PLN 25 million per city. We have gathered information about the investment needs of cities and systematically provide good news about the possibility of supporting further projects in the form of additional financial resources. It is particularly important, and it is worth noting that, in addition to the measures that have so far been available to us under the programme, it has also been possible to agree with the European Commission on measures to support urban transport, including in the additional React-EU instrument. These are measures which are directed directly by the Commission and which are intended to add to the programmes of the current perspective to serve directly all those who need these measures and the cohesion that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech. These measures are primarily targeted at green digital investments. We are also talking about strengthening the urban transport sector under the Operational Programme Infrastructure and the environment with an additional amount of 70 million, but this time the euro. Before us, we will discuss the details of this support with the European Commission. Changes to the operational programme are currently being developed by us. There is yet another particularly important issue in the context of urban transport reconstruction. It is about strengthening transport planning. This is also one of the areas we want to strengthen. We very much want public transport to be stronger, which is why, on the one hand, it is indeed rebuilt in the short term, in the short term, i.e. to address the effects of the pandemic, as you are asking, but we also want sustainable urban mobility plans to develop. These are plans where you look at all the mobility in the city, while at the same time taking care of all this, the highest quality of service, the highest quality of life. In many countries they have proven to be the best practice that has been applied - I am talking about planning practice - where mobility is seen as a real need for urban residents, but above all it is also planned in the most sustainable way possible. These plans are tools to facilitate planning that take into account a broader context than transport. Finally: some cities, it is worth noting that, as part of such plans, are already intending to meet their needs, but as part of our piloting, given the difficulties that some cities have in this regard, we want to strengthen these activities with additional financial means. Tackling this increased traffic and taking into account infrastructure capacity, putting on sustainable transport or actions, which are primarily designed to strengthen this urban policy, are among the priority actions in our department. The voivodship centers, as I said, which are (the bell) beneficiaries of PO IiŚ, already have the possibility to submit applications for new funds. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u37	Thank you very much, Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mariusz Trepek. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u38	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Thank you for that answer. You emphasized that we are living in a pandemic. I hope that this pandemic will disappear at some point, and transport will always be needed by people in large cities. I have an additional question: Will the planned support from the national level for local investments in urban transport continue in the coming years, in the perspective of 2021-2027? You mentioned 70 million euros. Is 70 million euro that is the amount that will support these voivodship programmes under the central programme, or are we talking about some other amount? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u39	Thank you very much, sir. Minister, please respond. Minister Grzegorz Puda. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u40	Thank you very much for that question. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, as part of the successor of the Infrastructure and Environment Programme, the FENIKS programme for 2021-2027, we envisage a continuation of this programme. It is known that this is one of the key sectors for sustainable transport. The amount proposed, programmed for these expenditures under the FENIKS programme, amounts to more than EUR 1750 million. Negotiations are currently underway on the programme with the European Commission. These measures will be used by the functional areas of cities, i.e. mainly voivodship centres, as well as seven urban functional areas of sub-regional centres. For us, it is extremely important that the strengthening of these functional links will continue, because in any city public transport does not operate in isolation from neighbouring municipalities. It is also worth noting that we want these funds to serve not only the agglomerations, but also the smaller towns, all those who can benefit from this money under the new FENIKS programme. This support will also be dedicated to interventions in the development of clean urban transport, both in this more infrastructure dimension and in this rolling stock dimension, in this digital dimension. This support, which I am talking about, will be used primarily for investments in infrastructure and rolling stock. I can also say that we would like this to finance connecting nodes, e.g. these latest Park & Ride parking spaces outside city centres, to improve urban systems for our transport networks, as well as urban ITS systems for favour, improvement of public urban transport services. I can say that in all the actions and projects that are being carried out, it will also be possible to finance expenditure related to the operation and integration of public transport services, which is tailored to the needs of all users. The development of ticketing and passenger information systems adapted to the needs of persons with disabilities will also be eligible for funding from these measures. Of course, it will still be possible to finance the preparation of sustainable urban mobility plans by city authorities and by those involved in urban or metropolitan policy. We also want it to sound today - this has been happening for some time - that well-planned urban mobility will certainly be a key factor in EU support. It would be good if the Members (the bell) could pass this on in their municipalities, cities, towns. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u41	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. Parliamentarians of the Civic Coalition have prepared a question on the victims of housing cooperatives, housing communities and municipal buildings, who have been omitted from the catalogue of entities entitled to the reduced price tariff for gas contained in the Gas Act, namely the Act on Special Solutions for the protection of gas customers due to the situation on the gas market, addressed to the Minister of State Assets. The question is asked by Monika Wielichowska. [[Who's answering? I wish I knew.]] The answer will be given by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets, Minister Karol Rabenda. [[Is it?]] There it is. You're welcome. The pedestal is yours.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u42	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to ask you if the government is aware that the gas bill with compensation doesn't work, that it's holes, that it has implemented social injustice law. Why does the government not listen to the dramatic appeals of the inhabitants of many cooperatives in Poland, who are not protected by the guaranteed protection of households within the meaning of the current Energy Law? The government did not benefit from a comprehensive gas bill prepared by the Civic Coalition. To this day, there's not even a printed number. At the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee on State Activities, no one answered our questions, nor did you answer the parliamentary interpellation. You have done nothing to help people who are excluded from compensation. And every day, Minister, without changing this law, exposes the inhabitants of many cooperatives in Poland to giant increases in the price of heat in apartments. I hope the government is ready for an urgent revision of the gas bill before human drama begins. You rejected our projects, you didn't accept the Senate aid, so accept our amendment. It will help households, it will balance, equalise the right of all citizens to a warm apartment. I demand that you take a job and make amends for what you've ruined. Mr. Joseph, a resident of New Rudy, who is 92 years old, is waiting for this. I talked to him. Mr.Joseph paid 484 PLN in February, and in March he must pay 880 PLN. That's how much more he has to pay for the heat and the heating of the water. Of what Ms. Halin's pensioner is to give up, also New Rudy, who paid PLN 630 for the apartment, and now has to pay almost $1,000.? What will you say to Mrs. Bogumile and Mary and Mr. Henry? They're in a similar situation. You don't believe me? I've got their bills on me. Mrs. Aneta, an entrepreneur who is a single parent, is also waiting for a positive decision. Mrs. Aneta was first hit twice by the so-called. Polish Load, and now more than 50% increase for warmth at home. People of the cooperative in Nowa Rud, Kłodzk, buildings in Polanice, Oldrzychowice, Nowy Tomyśl, Siemiatycze, Pile, Chełmnie, etc. and many other cooperatives (the bell) are also waiting for equal treatment, for compensation. They're waiting, Minister, for warmth in the apartments. I'm handing over our bill to you today. Take him in. Proceed over him because people are waiting for warmth in their homes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u43	Thank you, Member. Mr Karol Rabenda, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Activities, gives the answer, as I have already mentioned. Come in, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u44	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! On 29 January 2022, the Law of 26 January 2022 on specific arrangements for the protection of gas fuel customers entered into force in view of the situation on the gas market. The government law comprehensively responds to the effects and risks of the current crisis. The Act protects customers of particularly vulnerable gas, i.e. households and vulnerable customers. According to the Act, tariff protection covered in its entirety the supply of gas intended for domestic purposes. It goes on, among other things. housing communities and housing cooperatives. These operators pay for gas at the same rates as individual customers. This solution is foreseen by the end of 2023. Importantly, the Act provides for the tariff-free price freeze of gas fuels and guarantees a fixed gas price for 2022 regardless of the increase in market price at that time. Unfortunately introduced by the Law of tools used for individual customers and so-called group. sensitive consumers cannot be applied to entrepreneurs, and such entities within the meaning of the Act - The law of entrepreneurs are energy, heating and heat generating companies. In view of the EU rules to which Poland is obliged to apply, the State cannot extend gas tariffs to operators operating in the market, as this measure would be considered unlawful State aid. In addition, it should be borne in mind that heat and heat plants in Poland use different energy carriers: coal, RES, mainly biomass, oil and gas. According to data for 2020 Poland is used to produce heat mainly coal fuel. The share of coal in 2020 was 68.9% and the gas was only 10.6% fuels used for the production of heat. With such a significant diversification of fuels used for heat production, the introduction of preferential price conditions for gaseous fuels would mean unequal treatment of economic operators on the market. The only answer to the lack of statutory application of tariffs to traders is the direct actions of PGNiG Retail Trading Sp. z o.o., which introduced reductions for business customers using the price list: gas for business No 9. Entrepreneurs will pay 25% between 14 January 2020 and 31 January 2022 less for gas and between 1 February 2022 and 31 March 2022 35% less for gas than the price list of the first half of January of this year. The reduction shall automatically be granted to all customers subject to accounting for the gaseous fuel collected on the basis of the prices specified in the revised price list. Taking advantage of the reduction does not require the recipients to take any action and the prices taking into account the reduction will automatically be applied by sellers in settlements with the recipients without the need to change the contract. Furthermore, not without meaning - and this should be clearly emphasized - is the fact that every client of PGNiG Retail Trading Sp. z o.o., which is settled according to the price list, has the possibility to use at any time products, dedicated prices, which in exchange for a timely contract give a real opportunity to obtain a lower price. It should also be noted that an important mechanism to mitigate the effects of gas price increases is also the solutions introduced by the Law of 17 December 2021 on cover additives. Nearly 7 million households will be supported, which accounts for almost half of all households in our country. Covering allowance rates are dependent, among others. from income and household population to between PLN 400 per year for single persons to PLN 1437 per year for the largest households. This solution effectively supports the most needy people and families who have been hit hardest by the rise in energy prices. Being aware of the unprecedented situation, I would like to emphasise once again that the government is making and will continue to make every effort (the Bell) to reduce the negative effects of the energy crisis on society and, as far as possible in the light of existing European Union regulations, on economic operators. Thank you. [[Take our amendment. Fix the law.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u45	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr Jakub Rutnicki with a supplementary question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u46	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! I address you really on behalf of thousands of residents of the housing cooperative in Nowy Tomyśl, Opalenica, Pniewy. Minister, look, these are signatures, over 2,000. The signatures of desperate residents, so that you can finally act. Twice you rejected our amendment. Regardless of where heat comes from, if it goes to individual recipients, who are the people of the cooperative, they should be protected and not protected. [[Applause]] Minister, they're not. It's really time to take decisive action. People are scared. The increases that are already present are for the 60-metre apartment 800-900 PLN. If you don't do anything for the next few days, there'll be another raise from March. The 60-metre apartment will have a rent of PLN 1200. And you say there's nothing you can do? Ladies and gentlemen, the Civic Platform has a solution ready. There's a bill, we're making it, just take it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] If you don't have your project, take ours. [[Take ours.]] Time for action, ladies and gentlemen. We really don't have a moment to lose. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u47	Thank you very much. The Minister answers the supplementary question. You're welcome. Mr Karol Rabenda.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u48	Mr. Speaker! I'll repeat what's already been said here. According to the regulations, you can't subsidize... [[You don't have to.]] [[Speech outside the microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u49	Ladies and gentlemen... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Karol Rabenda: ...economic entities, because this is prohibited by EU law. If you want to change that law... [[The voice from the room: And what did you do...]] Mrs... Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Karol Rabenda: ... you call on your MEPs, you call on your fellow Members of the European Parliament to amend these rules. [[Voice from the room: You guys are in charge. You are helpless in the European Union.]] If you want to help people, stop using obstruction, start working in the Sejm. Stop yelling and support our resolutions, which are... [[You turned down our bill.]] Mr. President, do you want to scream about things? [[No, I want to help the residents...]] Calm down. [[You don't want to help the residents. Because you're not doing anything.]] Please, the Minister has the floor. You've already shouted yours. You're welcome. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Karol Rabenda: Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: We want to help.]] If you want to help Poles, the people of our country, support the government in the laws that remove the burden of their bills, which are not caused by the government's actions, but by EU policy and international policy. [[You have our project.]] For the first time in 30 years, we have a situation that, by all analysts, all specialists, is considered unprecedented in terms of the international, geopolitical, energy situation, and you're trying to make a policy here that you don't want to help people. [[Voice from the room: Drama.]] I'm warning you. Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Assets Karol Rabenda: You want to make a policy on the difficult situation of Poland. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Politics. Tell that to the people of Rudy Silesia.]] Thank you very much, Minister. I urge you to remain calm. Just now, I don't know, an hour ago you called for us to unite in different activities, so please stick to what your representative said. [[Voice from the room: But what peace...]] Another question. Members of the Polish Coalition have prepared a question on the reduction of agricultural pensions due to the entry into force of the Polish Government. The question is addressed to the President of the Council of Ministers. The first question is asked by Mr Zbigniew Ziejewski. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u50	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Since the beginning of the year, many accountants and tax advisors have been two and three to understand and properly interpret the rules of the biggest tax revolution in years, which the governing camp has been operating under the name of the Polish Government. In January, teachers, policemen, firemen, and retired uniforms, whose salaries or pensions were often lower by several hundred zlotys, have seen the impact of this change on the citizens' wallets. Retired farmers retiring from KRUS were also convinced of this. Health insurance contribution, which is 9% the amount of the benefit, in its entirety, was deducted from the gross amount. What does this mean for farmers who receive one of the lowest pensions in the country? Their benefits were reduced by PLN 100-150. Prime Minister! If farmers' pensions are 1,300 zlotys gross, then why are we taking almost 10% from these pensioners? benefits. At such rising prices of food, electricity, gas these 100-150 PLN per month makes a huge difference. How? They're supposed to make ends meet when they get $1,000 on hand. A month's worth of zloty? I therefore ask the Prime Minister to answer the following questions. Why the government charged retired farmers with an additional health contribution of 9% Benefits? Second: Can retired farmers who have received less pensions this year count on tax refunds that will compensate them for the loss of paid benefits this year? Question three: Will the government change the rules in such a way that single parents can apply for a reduction in the income tax advance by an additional amount reducing the tax due to the intention of joint settlement of the amount of income? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u51	Thank you very much, sir. The question will be answered by the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers, Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development Henryk Kowalczyk. I ask kindly, Prime Minister, for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u52	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I think the thesis in the question is an absolute lie. Talking about the government adding health contributions to pensions 9% It's absolutely not true. To date, the health contribution has also been 9%, sir. [[Yeah, seven...]] However, if you do not know, it may be worth comparing the solutions so far, i.e. 2021, and present. The only difference is that so far 7,75% health contributions were accounted for in the tax and 1,25% were accounted for in the tax was a contribution directly charged to the pensioner. But - and now there is the second element of the Polish Tax Order - the tax-free amount so far amounted to PLN 3888 and now amounts to PLN 30,000. on a yearly basis. So maybe we should try to analyze what the pensioner's benefit was like in the previous year, and what it looks like today. It is worth listening to the Member. So if the pensioner had $1,200 gross, right? [[Yes.]] In the previous scheme, therefore, the tax-free amount was PLN 3,800 per year, i.e. the tax credit in the previous year was actually PLN 525. Currently, due to the tax-free amount of 30,000. zł This annual tax reduction amount is PLN 5100. If we count it for months, we have 425 zlotys this year and 43 zlotys last year. Of course, it's not over, because now you have to compare the health contribution. Even if the health contribution currently amounts to 9%, this results in PLN 1296 per year. As far as the previous year is concerned, we only have to add the non-deductible 1,25%, which is 180 zlotys. The annual tax, i.e. the 17 percent tax paid on this pension, amounts to PLN 1922 in total. All in all, because it counts the pensioner, which stays in the pocket, doesn't it? So we're all together. All the deductions that the pensioner had in the previous year amounted to PLN 2102 and currently amount to PLN 1296 and thus annually the pensioner gains over PLN 800. And this translates, of course, into a monthly rate of about PLN 70 with a pension of PLN 1200. And that is true, sir. But if we took a pension, for example. 2,000. If you wanted to compare it, that profit would be even bigger. The same method of counting, each pensioner has PLN 2250 net, or PLN 187 per month. So what I'm asking is, where's the extra load? Unless you mean... Because the third question is that retired farmers have received less pensions this year. They didn't get any smaller pensions... [[They've been received.]] ...unless they have income from several sources. Thus, if this is the case, first, the tax-free amount, if no other statements are made, shall be calculated on the basis of one basic source, but if the total amount of revenue from different sources, e.g. two pensions: ZUS and KRUS, does not exceed 2,5 thousand. zł. monthly, it is actually possible to declare the non-payment of contributions both in one pension authority and in the other, and in both use this amount... So the total will remain close to 200 PLN. If this statement is not made, then, of course, in the case of one source, the deduction-free amount will be 30,000, in the case of the other - no, so the tax for the other source will be greater, but in the annual account it will be recovered anyway. [[Oh, in a year's...]] Unless someone benefits from the regulation of the Minister of Finance on 7 January and there is no greater burden on 2021. The fact is that this is not any additional contribution, first of all (the bell), so the thesis contained in the question itself is wrong, wrong, but it is only a health contribution, which is actually incalculable from tax, but thanks to the amount of free money each pensioner gains, depending on the size, nearly 100 PLN or about 100 PLN a month net, and it remains. Thus, this is the truth concerning the Polish Government and agricultural pensions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u53	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. The additional question will be asked by Mr Stefan Krajewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u54	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! The Prime Minister says it's so simple and obvious, only a farmer has to make a statement, because if he doesn't, then... [[He doesn't have to.]] We're dealing with a lot of farmers who worked hard on their farm, and also on the board. Such farmers who today receive pension and with KRUS, and with ZUS, are very many. And you have to think about them, too, because they worked additionally: except that they had to work on the farm. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Madam, please don't disturb me. I will not disturb you as you ask. How can we help these farmers? Because you've confused it so much that today farmers don't know, and then you're gonna end up saying they didn't make an additional statement, which is why they can't get that money back. You will find an explanation, as in many other cases. If it's so good, why is poverty in the country still growing? This is felt by the most retired who in a moment will not have to pay the bills for electricity (the bell), for gas, for heating. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the hall: For you they had...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u55	Thank you, sir. I invite you, Prime Minister, to respond. [[Game in the O.R.]] All right, ladies and gentlemen. Let's hear the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u56	Dear Marshal! Mr. Speaker! That statement is really... I'm sending you to a meeting, a meeting with farmers, with pensioners in the country. Listen to what they really think about your time when you've raised your retirement age to 67 years and women and men, what the minimum pensions were, even if they were agricultural, in your day. It was in our time that pensions rose, already nearly 100% compared to what was. And I repeat once again: all pensioners and farmers will really benefit from agricultural pensions. Can't you believe it? I know it's hard to understand, but it's actually true. I've read you the number, and you're talking about expensive, other things. I would really advise you to take a good look at the calculations. And in fact, if a farmer, a farmer's pensioner or anyone else has income from different sources, it is obvious that the amount free of charge, at least 30,000, is automatically calculated on the basis of one source. In the case of the others, it is necessary to request it by making a statement - that is all it takes. If this is compounded, the amount free will be added on the basis of different sources. Only after reaching the amount of free - 30,000, will you pay the tax. Thus, whether the farmer has income from different sources - if in total does not exceed 2500 PLN, he has absolutely reached the tax-free amount, he gains depending on the size, so around 100-180 PLN, as I calculated here on the example. I don't know how to explain it, because I think it's a situation where you have to send to school. We say retirees get more net, and you say less. Then go to any farmer's pensioner and see his belt, his paycheck, and find out. I can't explain it any other way, really. And putting in a question, and telling lies... Because they're lies. I say this clearly and clearly: what you say is a lie... [[They're not.]] ...because retired farmers get more money than you did in your day. [[Applause]] I'm skipping out on the size of my pension, my retirement age, because these are the decisions that you've made, ordering farmers to work until they're 67 years old, women too. [[65.]] It was outrageous behavior, but we solved this problem a few years ago, so I don't want to go back to it, although it's worth reminding you of how bad it is for pensioners. Then go to the country. [[...I'm in the country.]] Of course, I can say this: agricultural pensions are small. They're almost twice your size, but they're still small. On the other hand, there is a 13th pension. For those who have the smallest pensions, there is a 14th pension. Has anyone ever heard of such annual additions in your day? One annual supplement, the other annual supplement. [[♪ The bell ♪]] [[Thirteen, fourteen, valorization.]] This de facto is an increase of almost 20% the amount of further pension benefits. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let's really think first if we want to attack anything. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u57	Thank you very much, Prime Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question was drafted by Members of the Law and Justice on the proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the making available on the Union market and exports from the Union of certain goods and products related to deforestation and forest degradation and repealing Regulation (EU) No 995/2010 and is addressed to the Minister for Climate and Environment. They were prepared by Frederick Kapinos, Kazimierz Gołojuch, Teresa Pamuła, Jan Warzecha and Zbigniew Chmielowiec. The question is asked by Mr Frederick Kapinos. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u58	Dear Marshal! Dear Minister, High Izbo! On 18 November 2021, the European Commission submitted to the European Parliament a proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council on the making available on the Union market and exports from the Union of certain goods and products related to deforestation and forest degradation and repealing Regulation (EU) No 995/2010, COM ((2021) 706 final, procedure 2021/0366 ((COD). The Council of the European Union received this proposal on 19 November 2021. The draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, despite the very optimistic title on combating deforestation and forest degradation, is in fact a transfer of all forestry competences to the European Commission. In the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, there are no provisions on the common forestry policy of the European Union, so forest policy and its control fall within the competence of the Member States. In 2021, the European Union developed a new EU 2030 Forest Strategy, which contains a number of controversial assumptions against which scientists, practitioners, foresters across Europe are protesting. at a conference in Warsaw on 8 October 2021, the text of the draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council points to a real threat to the Polish forest management model. The draft regulation will become a real tool for European Union law to exercise the right to determine forest management by democratically elected representatives of a Member State. In this way, it is possible to create an economic blockade of well-functioning entities by requesting the execution of unlawful and non-essential actions and meeting ideological expectations of narrow social groups. Project records may cause a situation (the bell) in which some of these entities will be deprived of their production capacity as a result of NGO complaints. In view of the above, I ask the question: How does the Ministry of Climate and Environment evaluate the described...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u59	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u60	...a draft regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council and whether the Ministry has already developed a position or is working on the preparation of a position on this regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council, so that the EU-wide solutions to common problems...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u61	Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u62	...to take account of our country's interests as well? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u63	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State at the Ministry of Climate and Environment will answer the question. Please kindly, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u64	Dear Marshal! Dear Members, High Izbo! Indeed, the document you are asking about today is a very important document, which is another example of solutions that are very much interfering with the competences of the national states. There's no doubt about it. Therefore, the draft position of the Government on this draft regulation has already been drawn up in the Ministry of Climate and Environment in close contact and in close consultation with the Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development, the Minister for Development and Technology and the Minister for Finance, i.e. with the resorts that are relevant to the issues covered by the regulation. The position of the Government was adopted by the Committee on European Affairs on 14 February this year. I must say that Poland is very active in the work on the text of the regulation, a text that raises a lot of questions. We are active in the forums of the European Union working group on deforestation by submitting comments on individual articles of the regulation, as well as by presenting Poland's position in the European Union Council on. the environment and the Council of the European Union for agriculture in order to effectively safeguard the interests of Poland. I would add that on 21 February, literally a week ago, at the AGRI Council, Prime Minister Henryk Kowalczyk presented our very critical position on this document, as well as yesterday, the European Union Commission finally adopted the Government's position on this matter. While it seems obvious to me in this discussion on deforestation, the question of forest degradation, which is taking place in many places in the world - but we are talking here about areas of South America or Africa, where we are actually dealing with deforestation for agricultural purposes - in Europe we are not dealing with such processes, and in Poland we are not absolutely dealing with such cases. We must be aware that forests really play an important role in climate protection, biodiversity, and Poland does not question it, we do not question it, that is undoubtedly important, but we believe that the legislative instrument proposed by the European Commission raises very serious doubts and therefore raises our opposition to the solutions adopted, the concrete provisions adopted in this regulation, as well as their validity and efficiency. Please note that this regulation will affect not only products exported to the European Union, but also all products, including products not only of forest origin, i.e. furniture, various wood products, will affect the entire agricultural area. All agricultural products will be assessed on the basis of this Regulation, which will generate enormous effects for operators of this type of activity, production but also commercial activities. The entry into force of this Regulation will create a very serious burden for customs and for individual operators, as each product on the technical side would have to be marked exactly as to the place of origin and ensure that the product produced and included in the list of that Regulation is produced in accordance with the rules adopted here. These are difficult to assess today the effects of this regulation. First of all, we do not agree that the proposed regulation interferes with sustainable forest management. This is a great threat that comes again. This is not the first time that the European Commission is very much interfering in sustainable forest management, it is trying to take away the competences of national forestry countries. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is another document - in addition to biodiversity strategies, forest strategies and the whole package related to green governance - another case where such solutions appear in these regulations. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u65	Thank you kindly, Minister. The supplementary question will be asked by Mrs Teresa Pamuła. Please hold your time, I'll turn off the microphone, because I'd like to rewrite the point. One question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u66	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this statement by the Minister, but I would like to clarify this further. I speak on behalf of the members of the Environment Committee of Mr Kazimierz Golojucha, Mr Jan Warzecha, Mr Zbigniew Chmielowiec and my question is this. Since the Regulation provides for the categorisation of countries into three groups, it is Article. 27 in conjunction with Article. 10, the European Commission will have the power to classify countries. Taking into account the definition of forest contained in the project, Poland, together with an attempt to classify complete forests as forest degraders and ongoing or unfinished procedures before the Court of the European Union, can be classified as highly risky in the third group, i.e. countries under special supervision. What safeguards does the Ministry propose against any categorization, such as the NGO's complaint? In view of the fact that in the Treaty on the Functioning (Bell) of the European Union...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u67	Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u68	Thank you, Member. Mrs. Marshal! As I said, this regulation, if adopted in this version, would have a very far-reaching economic impact on countries such as Poland. Because I will remind you that when it comes to de facto wood products and especially the furniture industry, Poland is in the first place in terms of furniture production, and in terms of gross domestic product, it represents almost 2.5% our gross domestic product. All that is related to the forest economy and - what is important - 9% all of our exports are wood products. This is a big industry that employs half a million people. This is a huge challenge, which is why we strongly oppose the creation of such a system that qualifies countries in terms of their impact on deforestation and forest degradation. If the European Union made such a list - because the European Commission in the light of this regulation wants to introduce such a list and it is to decide which country is on this list and which is not - then, please pay attention, even with regard to what is currently happening in Europe, it could be very effective to eliminate Poland from the market in which we are effectively competing today. We believe that these are dangerous instruments that give some experts, in quotes, the right to decide whether a country will at some point be able to enter the open European market, e.g. free to trade. And this applies not only to wood products, but also to confectionery, chocolate, bakery or dairy products, because all these products can be abandoned at some point - whether there is an environmental group or an NGO, which will find that they are produced in a manner contrary to the provisions of this Regulation. We are very opposed to this. Fortunately, there is a great deal of reflection among European countries, which also contest the solutions adopted, and I hope that this solution will not be adopted in the end. There is another question: If a country finds such a risk list, how is it to be deleted from this list later? Who's gonna decide that? According to what procedures? So this is a very complicated process that the European Commission is proposing to us right now, and it is dangerous for our economy. We are (the bell) against this regulation. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Thank you, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u69	Thank you very much, Minister. Let's move on to the next question. The question prepared by the members of the Civic Coalition on comprehensive actions for the security of the Republic of Poland taken by the Council of Ministers on the international stage, including in particular within the European Union, NATO, OSCE, and national in connection with the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, addressed to the Vice-President of the Council of Ministers. The question is asked by Mr Paweł Kowal. I'm asking you to stick to your time, because I'm about to have the Bureau, and I'm gonna have to adjourn.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u70	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, History has made this today's question probably the most important question that the High House is facing. This is a question about the safety of our neighbours, but in fact it is looking for an answer to how to prevent war. This isn't their war. This isn't a war far away. This is also our war. Our neighbor's house was set on fire. Therefore, the first thing is to tell the Ukrainians today, and perhaps tomorrow to Georgians and our other sisters and brothers in the East, that the door to the European Union and NATO is open to them. [[Applause]] We expect this from the Polish government and offer support in this matter. They fight for us, they need to hear today that their place is with us. [[Applause]] And a key issue for every Polish citizen: today people ask for their safety. We must unite to ensure the safety of every Polish family. This means that the questions are: How is the government prepared to defend itself against diversion? How have cyber attacks been protected from water supply installations? How was the army prepared? How many briefings have been held? What specific actions did the National Security Council, the Committee responsible for security, take? These are the questions that every Polish family faces today. So we're gonna talk without a break. Poles need more security today. This requires great mobilisation in the international and national arena. And we will speak without rest: peace, but sanctions and solidarity (The Bell), an active government and great synergy of all Poles who today have the good of our homeland at heart. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u71	Thank you very much. The answer to the question will be answered by the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Minister Paweł Jabłoński. Please, Minister, and thank you for being with us despite this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u72	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Thank you very much for this question, because it is actually extremely important, especially in the context of the events of the last hours, but actually of the last days and weeks. As you know very well, you are following international events, you are well aware that Russia, for the last time this morning, hopefully, has crossed the boundaries that we have been talking about for many, many months. You could hear a lot of voices that these armed activities were just a scarecrow, they're just a threat that Russia would never do that. In fact, unfortunately, it happened just as the Polish government and governments of other Central European countries, which perfectly understand this threat, warned, as we warned. Unfortunately, there's the worst-case scenario, but I don't think there's ever been a security threat in this room before. The Polish government has been taking action on this issue for months. Already last year, when everyone was still focused on the security situation concerning our eastern border with Belarus, we began to see that some actions were also being taken on the part of Russia, on the part of the Russian Federation: the gathering of troops and on the territory at the Russian-Ukrainian border, and on the territory of Belarus. At that time, Prime Minister Morawiecki met with the leaders of all the European Union countries very intensively, and informed them that such a threat was increasing, that decisive action had to be taken. Today we are in a situation where some of these actions have already been implemented, another part has been announced. Tonight, at the request of Prime Minister Moravian, a European Council will be held in Brussels, an extraordinary summit dedicated to this particular situation. There have already been very intense discussions over the last few hours on what sanctions should be imposed, some of which have been announced this morning by the President of the European Commission. This, of course, still requires approval at European Council level, which still requires unanimity for all Member States. It is no secret to anyone that the political will and the determination to impose sanctions differ from one Member State to another in the European Union. There are some countries that, for a very long time, until the last few days, have felt that the introduction of sanctions for even projects which are, in principle, clearly harmful to safety, such as Nord Stream 2 projects, is inappropriate. We heard such voices last week from the largest countries of the European Union. [[But that's not the subject.]] Luckily, it's changing today. Fortunately, today, after yesterday's announcement by the German Chancellor, this is finally beginning to change. Of course, you have to realize that this is not the end, that all kinds of Putin's followers will continue to take such steps that they will try to reverse these decisions in time. That's why consistency is so important, which is why unity is so important. Thank you very much for this vote, for the declaration that the opposition on this issue will support the government, because in this matter all political forces should really speak with one voice. This is the interest of Poland, this is the interest of Central Europe, this is the interest of the whole of Europe, the whole of our continent. Security doesn't have a price. We need to be aware of that. Indeed, we need support for our neighbours, for our partners, for our brothers in Ukraine. This backup is ready. Our diplomatic services, our consular services remain in place. Of course, we are ready to take evacuation measures if necessary, but above all we want to be there to serve our citizens who are in Ukraine, who also need help. This morning, the announcements were updated again. We encourage anyone who can only take action to leave Ukraine as soon as possible. Our consular services will help. The actions that we are undertaking are really aimed primarily at bringing about the unity of allies. We assume that no one individually, no country individually, whether it is Germany, whether it is France, whether it is Poland or even the United States, is able to make Putina stop. On the other hand, if we are one as the West, if we are one and determined, we really are stronger, we really have instruments that we can use. Tonight, the Prime Minister will encourage all the other leaders of the European Union to be ready to use these instruments. We are convinced that if this unity, internal unity, will also be in Poland, also in other countries... Because there is nothing to be fooled by: all the time, various types of Putin's followers will try to break up this unity, tell you that sanctions are not effective, that sanctions are more painful for Europe than for Russia. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's not true. That's not true, you have to remember that. This must be continued and the Polish government will do so. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u73	Thank you kindly, Minister. Supplementary question, Mr Sławomir Nitras. I'm asking you to stick to your time, because I'm gonna have to announce a recess in a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u74	Mrs. Marshal! I also thank you for your attitude here today. This is where the jokes are over. We must all really be aware of this. Minister, thanking you for your presence, I would like to appeal to the Prime Minister of Poland: This is the moment when you must give Poles a sense of security. [[Voice from the room: Not sense, just security.]] Tell the Poles what to do, how to behave, what to signal, how to help the Ukrainians, all of us. Because as Mr Kowal rightly said: this is not their war. This is a war that can also affect Poles. Today all Polish families, mothers, children woke up in the morning and asked themselves what to do, how to behave in this situation. I wish the rulers that, in the situation in which we are all in, they will get wings and prove to us all that Poland, after years of your governments, is ready for what has happened to Europe. I wish that the Prime Minister would stand here today and tell us that we are ready. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u75	Thank you very much. Minister, I'd like a supplementary answer. Minister Paweł Jabłoński. We're about to announce a recess.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Membership! Of course, such readiness is needed and we must give Poles today not so much a sense of security as a sense of security. Today we must do everything in our power to keep Poland safe, and the condition for Poland's security is that this war is stopped, so that Ukraine is safe. That is why I also appeal to all political forces, to all parties that also affect their coalitioners in other European parties, to talk, to act, to show that economic, energy cooperation with Putin, what we have led to as Europe - I do not want to point a finger at specific countries here, but we all know exactly who we are talking about. The construction of further pipelines led to a situation that allowed Putin to finance the armed activities that we are witnessing today. It was a huge mistake. Even today these politicians, who in other countries, especially west of us, have taken this kind of action, admit that it was a mistake. They admit we were too gullible. We in Poland were not gullible, we in Poland were very clear: it is a mistake, it is dangerous. We're making ourselves a Europe of rope around our necks. But what we need today is a consequence. There is today a need for consistency in the discussion with those politicians who have a real impact on how the European Union works, how Europe works, how the largest countries operate, because it is in these countries that the key to solving this crisis is the key. If we are united, if we are able to impose sanctions, and those that are really felt for Russia - and opportunities are there, but sometimes there is a lack of political will - if political will appears... It is a collective, collective task for all of us to convince our partners in Europe to do so. We can do that. I call for us to focus on this in the coming days. Internal disputes that are between our political camps are obvious in the country. Outside these disputes it should not be, because it is simply what our safety requires. And I hope that such unnecessary, harmful disputes we will avoid, and together we will work for the security of Poland, Europe and for the security of our brothers Ukrainians. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u77	Thank you very much, Minister. Yes, sir. Let's be together. Let's be solidarity. I'm ordering a recess until the hour. 13. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 40 hrs. 14 min 05]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u78	I'm reopening the Sejm's deliberations. I would like to ask you, Members, to take your seats. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Sejm Bureau, in agreement with the Seniors' Convention, submitted a draft statement to the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine, print No 2048. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51 (1) of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 20 of the agenda: a draft statement by the Sejm of the Republic of Poland on the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine (print No 2048) presented by the Bureau of the Sejm. [[The Gathered Rise Up]] Statement by the Polish Parliament on the aggression of the Russian Federation in Ukraine Despite the intense efforts of the international community, the Russian Federation has today made open, unprovoked and unwarranted aggression against Ukraine. It is a brutal act of violence against the standards of international law, including the Charter of the United Nations, and the clear rejection by Russia of its international obligations resulting from the Helsinki Final Act, the Paris Charter, the Budapest Memorandum, the NATO-Russia Act and the Minsk Agreements. This is a direct attack on Euro-Atlantic security and the entire international order, with enormous geo-strategic consequences. The Russian Federation shall be excluded from the international community. We go back to the darkest times of the 20th century. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland strongly condemns this criminal aggression. We call on the Russian Federation and the Republic of Belarus cooperating with it to cease their war activities, to withdraw all their troops from Ukraine's territory and close to its borders and to fully respect international humanitarian law. We support the democratic authorities and the Ukrainian people and express our solidarity with them. We consistently support the sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine. In this dramatic situation, we will not leave her unsupported. The Sejm of the Republic of Poland invites the European Union, NATO and the entire international community to immediately introduce the widest possible sanctions against the aggressor - the Russian Federation. We also call for Ukraine's broadest economic and humanitarian support. Members of the Sejm of the Republic of Poland, representing the Polish people, support members of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who are representatives of the Ukrainian people, in their work and fight for their homeland and express their solidarity with them. As representatives of our nations, we have the right and obligation to appeal to entire societies and nations, as well as to international institutions and organisations for decisive, solidarity and unambiguous stopping the hostile and aggressive behaviour of the Russian Federation authorities (long-term applause) Ladies and gentlemen, this is our position. Thank you very much. Thank you very much to all clubs and parliamentary circles for the uniform condemnation of this act of aggression and for adopting this position. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] I state that the Sejm has made a statement on the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine by acclamation. After obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with a point including the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers. I propose that the Sejm listen to three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 1.5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles in the discussion on this item. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: Statement by the President of the Council of Ministers. I ask you, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, to present the information. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear fellow countrymen! This morning, on 24 February 2022, it will become history as the day Russia chose war, as the day one country in Europe attacked the other, without the slightest reason, without any provocation, without any reason that could justify such an act of aggression in any way. This barbarism, with which we meet beyond our eastern borders, must meet with the determined resistance of the whole free world. Today, it must be emphasized with all its power, Ukraine is fighting not only for its own independence. Today Ukraine is fighting not only for its own freedom. Today Ukraine is fighting on behalf of Europe as a whole, for the freedom of Europe as a whole. [[Applause]] We are well aware of how well you can see the risk, the threat of Russia from our perspective, and we also know that until very recently it was not so well visible in the West of Europe. Today Europe speaks more and more Polish. Today, Europe understands these threats more and more. Today he concludes with this naive look at Russia, which unfortunately also led to its kind of consent to acts of aggression. Today, we are in the process of talking, in accordance with the recommendation of this resolution, which you have just read, to develop the most far-reaching sanctions against the Russian Federation, because they are the only ones able to stop further acts of aggression. High Izbo! Dear fellow countrymen! Today Poland is a completely safe country. Our services, uniforms and troops have been placed on high alert. All of our actions have long served to strengthen our defences. How appropriate it was for us to set up a security and defence committee more than 1.5 years ago. This committee has drawn up a law on the defence of the country that has already been known to you. I would very much like to ask that the law, which will come to the Parliament in the near future, be in a manner consistent with the agreement quickly renegotiated, because it will further strengthen our security. [[Applause]] We're not surprised at what's going on today. We anticipated this state of affairs. Already in November, in December, I spoke with many EU leaders, practically everyone, keeping them from what could happen. Right before what's happening today: before a full-scale attack, an attack on Ukraine. These risks are materializing in front of us today. Vladimir Putin chose the route of terror, wants to break Europe with terror. Our decisive response will also depend on whether we will be able - together with Europe, together with NATO - to restore the territorial integrity of Ukraine. Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Today is an absolutely special moment in our history, because this morning has changed everything. He caused the demons we've forgotten, the demons of World War II, the demons of war, to live again. Assault, aggression became a fact. Innocent people die just outside our eastern border. Our attitude must be determined. Poland is part of the most powerful military alliance in the world. Poland is part of NATO and Poland is at the same time a member state of NATO, which raises awareness of the risks associated with this situation. I can tell the High House: today these risks are fully understandable, fully appreciated and properly assessed by all our partners in NATO. This is very important because our actions, the activities of a free Europe, the free world go in two directions. Firstly, the implementation of a strong, firm package of sanctions imposed on the Russian Federation, such a package which will effectively deter further action and will give hope to restore the full territorial integrity of Ukraine and its independence. The second course of action, which we must work on together, is to strengthen the eastern part of NATO, the eastern part of the EU. As far as this is concerned, we also have advanced conversations. President Andrzej Duda, the Minister for National Defence, is in constant contact with our counterparts in NATO, in particular in the United States, the United Kingdom, and with other allies so that the Eastern NATO flank is further strengthened in the shortest possible time. It should be remembered that there are over 6,000 already here today. North Atlantic Pact soldiers who support our soldiers, and compared to the state of our years ago, this is a significant reinforcement of our defence, a significant reinforcement of the eastern flank. Ladies and gentlemen! Dear fellow countrymen! I also want to say literally three sentences about the state of the economy, because the war behind our eastern border must be worrying and worrying in many areas - the state of our economy is good. We're in a good position. Our budget is in very good shape, despite the implemented anti-inflationary package. In January it will be a large budget surplus, in February maybe the budget will be balanced, but let me remind you that we are fighting inflation at the same time, so we are balancing the different parameters. Today is not the time to go into details, today, dear fellow countrymen, nor is it the time to worry about the state of our economy, the condition of our economy. This condition is good, we're also safe. I would also like to say, High Izbo, that our actions, which we started with the wrap six months ago, were actions that predicted what would happen. Security Committee set up and chaired by Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński Already in June last year he made the right decisions regarding our Polish-Belarusian border. After all, today it is already very clear that those actions were unfortunately part of the planned operation planned in the Kremlin. The Security and Defence Committee has carried out a number of analyses, strategic analyses, and today we know where our actions should go, including through this. This morning before hours. 6 we started discussions within the Security and Defence Committee and the Government Emergency Management Team, and soon afterwards we also met with President Andrzej Duda at the National Security Office. Today is a very important moment, a very important time, a time in which many Poles are certainly angry, anxious. This is understandable, but we all have to show peace, unity, and we must also work to further strengthen our defence potential. And that's what we do, and that's what we do. Therefore, I am convinced that Poland is safe today under this strongest military alliance in the world, which is the North Atlantic Pact. I also want to address the Ukrainians from this place. Ladies and gentlemen, our dear Eastern neighbours, those who have already found your first home in Poland, and those who have your second home here, and those of you who will probably come to Poland, we will not leave you in need, we are with you. [[Applause]] Poland, as one of the first countries, has taken action to support Ukraine in the area of humanitarian action and various types of aid of this nature. And we will continue with this help. We're gonna help, we're gonna welcome refugees here, we're gonna help them, we're gonna get hurt if we need them. I hope this doesn't happen, but we need to prepare for very difficult situations, and so do black scenarios. In this respect, we are in constant contact with our allies from NATO, with our allies from the European Union. This morning I spoke with the President of the European Commission, the President of the European Council, and today I can tell you that this discussion of sanctions, about strengthening the defence of the eastern part of the European Union, and thus the eastern part of NATO, has been very, very positive. He's full of understanding today. After these last few days, after this package of sanctions, which we all know about, what it looked like 2-3 days ago, after that package, it is very mild today to understand that we must bring about decisive action, because only such actions will stop the barbaric actions of the Kremlin, the barbaric attack of Putin. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! High Izbo! Dear fellow countrymen! This morning changed everything. This morning, apart from the fact that it will certainly guide historical changes, changes in the coming years, perhaps in the coming decades - and from our decisive response, our solidarity will depend very much - and this morning is also a kind of memento for us, because we must also realise that, apart from the fact that we are watching a war of a conventional nature, we are also seeing a war of a hybrid nature. This is an information war, a propaganda war, and unfortunately the Russians are very good. They can use all kinds of fake news, hacker attacks, cyber attacks on critical infrastructure, various kinds of social media. It's worth it for us, the whole political class, to realize that. And it is also worth that the media at this particular time, the first in thirty-seventy years, the first in seventy years, realize fully that fake news, that various kinds of disinformation and propaganda is a tool in Putin's hands. [[Applause]] Let us answer this with truth, unity, peace and solidarity. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we are one, we are strong, we are sure that Poland will find the right answer to this difficult time, that we will not be intimidated, that we will not be broken by the Kremlin, the terror of the Kremlin, that we are united and that our solidarity will not only lead Europe to defend its freedom, to defend its independence, but also to restore it together with Europe, together with our allies, together with the free world freedom, independence and territorial integrity of Ukraine. Long live the independent Ukraine! [[Some Members stand up, long-term applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u80	Thank you, Prime Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear three minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 1.5 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Borys Budka, the Civic Coalition, will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u81	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! First of all, the expressions of solidarity. Expressions of solidarity for the Ukrainian people and all those who have stood on this front line today. [[Applause]] We're with you. The Parliament of the Republic has expressed this solidarity in its resolution, but I think it needs to be emphasised at every step. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's rehearsal time. It is a time of trial and great responsibility, which we all faced, therefore it is so important to draw up a clear, clear plan at this time, which will allow us to increase Poland's security. It wasn't that long ago that Donald Tusk was talking about this plan, which... [[The voice from the hall: Oh, dear.]] ...shared his experience as President of the European Council, and previously Prime Minister, he suggested how to strengthen Poland's security at this most difficult time for Poland. Indeed, the moment is unprecedented. Therefore, first of all, we must refrain from any international conflict, from this unnecessary fight with friends, not enemies (Applause), from focusing our energy where there are friends, not enemies. I am talking about full cooperation with the European Union and NATO countries. [[Applause]] Secondly, High Izbo, the difference between autocratic Russia and the democratic countries of the European Union and the West is that there are no free courts there. That is why it is so important to restore the rule of law (Applause) in Poland, so important to end the dispute with the European Union. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Some of the MPs are hitting the desktops.]] [[Some of the Members are leaving the room.]] This is required by the Polish state right. [[What are you doing? What are you doing?]] And finally, the third thing. Yes, we need to adopt the Homeland Defense Act over the political divide. [[Applause]] Therefore, we submitted a draft resolution of the Sejm to the Marshal's staff so that it would be a special, extraordinary committee of the Sejm to deal with the work on this project. This project needs to be drawn beyond the current political dispute; it needs to be adopted as far as possible by acclamation. [[Applause]] That is why we declare our willingness to cooperate from this point on, we declare our willingness to cooperate with our experts so that the government's proposal is adopted in political consensus. Therefore, from this point on, I appeal to your marshals not to close the sitting of the Sejm today. We are ready for constant work to increase the security of Poland. [[Applause]] We are ready (the bell) for this work beyond any division. And that is what we are calling for, Prime Minister, your marshal, to the ruling party. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[The voice from the hall: What a vile man.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u82	Thank you very much. Here you go, Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u83	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! War, then. Russia in a disgraceful way attacked Ukraine and violated international law. The attack on Ukraine is also an attack on Europe. It cannot be justified in any way. None of us thought he'd see a time when there'd be a war. Putin destroyed this sense of security in Europe and today Putin is the public enemy number one in Europe. [[Applause]] War changes everything. On security, agreement, agreement and unity are needed. On behalf of the Left, I declare it time to put an end to political disputes. It is time to end the dispute here and say: we are in solidarity with the Ukrainian people. [[Applause]] Today there are no divisions on the left, right or center, today solidarity and cooperation are important. Therefore, the Left declares: our parliamentary offices, our party field offices will be at the disposal of the Ukrainians who will come here. [[Applause]] Poland must be the largest ambassador of Ukraine in Europe and the world. The response to Russia's attack must be firm and solidarity with the Ukrainian state and society. Constant and strong sanctions must be made: the complete separation of Russia from the global banking system, the confiscation of the assets of the Russian oligarchs and the transfer of this money to Ukraine. [[Applause]] Solidarity means support. We must free Ukraine from foreign debt. $95 billion is a lot of money. They could be used by Ukraine to defend the state. [[Applause]] Women, children, fathers, grandmothers and grandparents. Soon everyone will be looking for help in Poland. We have to help them, because friends get to know each other in poverty. [[Applause]] An open door for Ukraine is our common duty. Kiev, Warsaw - a common matter! [[Applause]] Kiev, Warsaw - urgent matter! Together for Ukraine! Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u84	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysza, Coalition Poland. [[Game in the O.R.]] I ask your Members to remain calm.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u85	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Dear fellow countrymen! In the face of regular war, which is taking place at sea, on land and in the air, in the face of victims, endangered health and life of millions of inhabitants, Ukrainian citizens, in the face of the tragedy of Ukrainians and their families, Ukrainians living in Poland and their families who remain in Ukraine, it is necessary to remind what the right state is and how this right state is to be implemented. The reason for the state of the Republic is always, invariably free, democratic, undisturbed Polish state. [[Applause]] The reason for the state of the Republic is the safety, well-being and well-being of citizens. And today the reason of the state of the Republic, the world, Europe, democratic states is free, integral, independent Ukraine. [[Applause]] This right state can only be achieved by maintaining certain principles of solidarity, responsibility, cooperation in Poland between political forces and being united with our allies in the European Union and NATO. As in the Roman legion we must keep up, we must go in this formation, we must show that this formation can say: stop, it can say: no, it can stop war, it can stop dictators. [[Applause]] Today, the Polish reason for the state, the reason for the democratic state of the civilized world is solidarity and responsibility. We expect this solidarity and responsibility here in Poland. We expect a continuous session of the National Security Council, at least once a week. We look forward to consulting the rulers and declaring that we will work together. We are ready to revise the Polish state's budget if there is a need to move expenditure to the army, to move expenditure to the aid. We expect cooperation with local governments and NGOs, helping all those who will leave Poland to power the Ukrainian army, those who live in Poland today, and those who will come to Poland. Guest in the house, God in the house - this is an old Polish proverb, but this must become a fact, because they are true refugees of war. Ladies and gentlemen! The symbolic gestures to be performed are also important. As if the representatives of all parliamentary clubs, as if we all went to the Ukrainian embassy today after the votes and showed our solidarity symbolically there... Long live Poland! Long live free, independent Poland! Let the free Ukraine win! [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u86	Thank you very much, sir. Please take the floor of Mr Bosak, the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u87	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today we are speaking in a special moment, because Russia has started an attack war, a war on a scale that we have not yet seen. Today we sympathize, but we also feel responsible for our country and for strengthening its defence. After these speeches that sounded, I look left-handed, I can't remind you that in January last year you proposed cutting expenditure on defence (Applause) that last year the Left attacked Polish Army soldiers and insulted them when they defended the Polish border against the attack by Belarus, a country which is now participating in this attack, which is being conducted, on Ukraine. You are co-responsible for weakening the defence of the Polish state. [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] [[Voice from the room: Wrong moment.]] Now you're the first to give clichés, but when you had to think ahead, you weren't among the people who thought responsibly. The Confederation thinks responsibly about Poland's defence, so we call for the integration of the expert sector into the parliamentary debate. This bill that's being prepared... It should be built, Minister, a cross-party consensus. It's done, for example. inviting representatives of all parties, in advance, to the Ministry of National Defence, giving us the opportunity to comment on the bill. Saying that at the moment we need to vote on the underdeveloped defence law in an accelerated manner is asking for a second Polish Load. Don't do this. 2 weeks to quiet (Bingle) overworking the text of the bill. [[Applause]] We are determined to build a cross-party consensus for strengthening Polish defence. Poland needs this, not shows. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u88	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Paweł Zalewski, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This isn't the time for disputes. This is the time to express admiration for the Ukrainians, because a great nation is risking life, blood for values on which it based its community. This is a time of solidarity. I understand that the Prime Minister took responsibility in today's speech for building solidarity in this House, but also in Poland. This is the time. cooperation on key issues: defence, security, foreign affairs. Ukraine is fighting for Europe's freedom. But what does that mean in practice? Ukraine defends itself against dictatorship and defends democracy. This is a fight between Kremlin thieving and corruption with the rule of law. This is the struggle of enslavement to personal freedom. Finally, it is the fight of a state lie against freedom of speech. This is not a fight that is limited to Ukraine. There, there is a war going on in Ukraine and this fight has taken on a military character, but this is a fight in every democratic country, including Poland. Prime Minister! It is good that Europe speaks Polish today. It is time for Poland to speak European. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u90	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Jarosław Gowin, the Agreement. [[Game in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please, let's give everyone an opportunity to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u91	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, This is international banditry. And there are no economic sanctions that would be too severe against Russia for assault, an unprecedented, brutal, bloody attack on an independent country such as Ukraine. In this matter, we must speak with one voice. And there is no government action that would not, I believe, welcome the unanimous support of the opposition. There are four areas in which we must act, continue these government activities, actions of the Polish state. The diplomatic support area. Support Ukraine with military equipment. Thirdly, the Prime Minister mentioned the good situation of the Polish budget - there is still a moment to support Ukraine also financially. Finally, we must prepare for humanitarian aid, both carried here, in Poland and perhaps also carried in Ukraine if there are internal refugees there. In these matters I want to declare unambiguously that the Agreement will support all actions of the Polish state, the Polish government, and we will support the process of working on the law on defence of the homeland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u92	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Paweł Kukiz, Kukiz15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Today we are certainly dealing with an extremely dangerous situation, a situation that can be the beginning of the end not only of the democracy we know but of civilization. We can't just stand by and hope that Putin stays on Donbass and everything's gonna be the same. We cannot repeat the mistakes made in 1938, when allowing the annexation of Czechoslovakia, we closed our eyes with an illusion that it would end there. We should support Ukraine in the fight against the Russian aggressor with all our strength, because otherwise Poland, the Baltic Republics and other countries of Central and Eastern Europe can become another loot of Putin Russia, one by one. Let us not panic, of course, because at the moment Poland is not threatened by direct confrontation with Russia, but we must certainly do everything we can to protect ourselves from this possibility as much as possible. In 2016, the members of Kukiz15 submitted a draft law on access to and training for arms and ammunition. We believe that Parliament should spend another week on the process of this law and on the government's draft law on the protection of the country. High Izbo! Today, I ask all policy options with a strong demand for pressure in the European Parliament to revise climate policy and in particular CO taxes
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u94	Thank you, sir. There you go, Mrs Agnieszka Chasing, Polish Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u95	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Firstly, the expressions of solidarity with the Ukrainian people, the expressions of solidarity which we should express not only symbolically but pragmaticly - preparation for social assistance, but also the preparation of the labour market. Secondly, above all, taking care of international alliances, taking care of the alliances we are already in, but also not closing ourselves to new alliances that can have a real economic impact on the aggressor who attacked our neighbours. This dialogue is worthwhile. Thirdly, joint action to unite also the Polish people, so as not to divide, not to conflict, and the law on defence of the state to vote, to work over party divisions, because it cannot be changed every term, it must be a permanent, stable document, which will above all be serious, will create a sense of security for Polish citizens. As far as all these actions are concerned, the government's actions, which are primarily intended to focus also on strengthening our military potential - to strengthen our military potential, Prime Minister, mainly through the reconstruction of the Polish arms industry - Polish Affairs will support the government's actions and join together in all the work on this subject. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u96	Thank you, Member. Here you go, Mr Andrzej Rozenek, Polish Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u97	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we bow low, with humility and great appreciation, before our soldiers, against the soldiers of the Polish Army... [[Voice from the room: Finally.]] ...who have been building the capital of our security for decades. They built it on a mission in Afghanistan, on a mission in Iraq, building it on a mission in Yugoslavia. Today, thanks to this capital, we can say that Poland is a solid and solid participant in the North Atlantic Pact. This is one leg where our safety lies. The second leg on which our safety lies is the European Union. Again, we bow our heads low before Polish diplomacy, which has been building Polish diplomatic security for decades, building good relations with our friends from the European Union and with our friends from across the ocean. It is impossible to forget about the two prominent politicians who have strengthened and even laid the foundations for these two legs. The first one is President Alexander Kwasniewski. He's the reason we're members of the North Atlantic Pact today. Thank you, Mr. President. [[Applause]] The second person is Prime Minister Leszek Miller (The Bell), who introduced Poland into the European Union. Thank you, Prime Minister. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Russian money.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u98	Thank you, sir. And here you go, Marshal Richard Terlecki, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Prime Minister! High Izbo! Ukraine has been fighting for its freedom, its independence since this morning. We in Poland know what it means to fight for independence alone, to fight for our homeland alone. A week ago we were a representative of all parliamentary clubs in the Seym, in the Ukrainian Parliament. And we told the Ukrainians about the resolution adopted by the Polish Sejm. We have talked about the fact that we are appealing to the whole world, to all international organisations, especially the European Union and the North Atlantic Pact, for solidarity with the Ukrainian state, with the Ukrainian Government, with the Ukrainian people. The hall greeted us and said goodbye to the ovation that all the participants of this expedition, I think, remember well. We have to do the same thing today. We will say again that we demand, we appeal, we demand solidarity with Ukraine from all important international organisations, from all free countries of the world. We want unity in this solidarity, we want us to be able to speak with one voice. Maybe not everyone understood that, maybe you didn't understand that. But the delegation of the Civic Platform was also with us, the representative of the Civic Platform was also with us in the Ukrainian Parliament. Mr. Chairman of the Platform Parliamentary Club... [[Voice from the room: You can still come out with a face.]] ...I would like to say that this week German politicians have chosen the supreme court. Here it is worth remembering that what is allowed for Germans must also be allowed for Poles. [[Some Members get up, give a round of applause]] [[Voice from the room: Constitution!]] [[Voice from the hall: You have no shame.]] If you don't get it, you're giving a bad witness to yourself and your party. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u100	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, the list of MEPs has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. I state that the Sejm has read the speech of the President of the Council of Ministers. Ladies and gentlemen, at your service. We've got 15 votes scheduled. Before the votes, I invite the Convention to the daily lounge. You're welcome. I'm declaring a time-out. 15, as planned. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 14 min. 51 hrs. 15 min 03]] I'm reopening the session. I ask all Members to take their seats. We will now proceed to the vote in order to establish a quorum at the Sejm meeting, because we will have a vote in a moment. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that just after the Bureau and the Convention meeting, we unanimously decided that, in view of the fact that the defence law is to be affected, we would not finish the session of the Sejm, but we would extend it by one day, it would be Thursday next week, so we would announce a recess in today's proceedings until Thursday, next week. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen, in order to confirm your presence at the sitting, I would ask Members to press any button. You're welcome. We are checking the quorum, so I ask you once again to press any button. 449 Members are taking part in the deliberations. I'm declaring a quorum. The Sejm Bureau, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees, print No 2046. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this proposal. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the adoption of the Senate on the Act on the support of households to bear the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting, print No 2023. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 78 (1) (a) (ii) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I have decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on the Senate resolutions on the laws: - amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on Extraction of Certain Copies, - amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. The reports shall be printed in 2030 and 2032 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. 54 (1) (a) 5 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. After consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to delete the following items from the agenda: - Current information, i.e. point 12, - Reported by the Council of Ministers on Road Safety and the activities carried out in this area in 2020, together with the position of the Infrastructure Commission, print Nos 1271 and 1336, i.e. point 18. On the other hand, the first reading of the government draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027, print No 2022, i.e. point 13, the Sejm will be held today after the votes. We are returning to the consideration of item 3 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft law on printing No 2021. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2021 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 235 - for, no one was against, withered 223. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture and some other laws. We are returning to the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law on the amendment of the Law on Technical Dosor and the Law on Rail Transport. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 1999. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 1999 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 445 - for, no one was against, 14 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Law on Technical Dosor and the Law on Rail Transport. We return to the review of item 6 of the agenda: Report from the Commission on Energy, Climate and State Assets on the draft law amending the Act - Energy Law. We proceed to the third reading. The Commission calls for the adoption of a draft Print Act 2025. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No 2025 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 456 - for, no one was against, 1 abstained. The Sejm passed a law on amending the Act - Energy Law. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Government's draft law amending the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law on printing No 2020. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the draft law as a whole in print no. 2020 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 448 - for, 8 - against, abstained 3. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on the Development Fund for public service bus services. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Physical Culture, Sport and Tourism and the Committee on Territorial Self-Government and Regional Policy on the urgent draft law amending the law on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. We proceed to the third reading. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2028. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2028 will want to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 454 Members voted. 276 - for, 161 - against, 17 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on support for the preparation of the 3rd European Games in 2023. We would like to return to the review of item 5 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy on a draft law amending the Act on occupational retirement schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. The additional committee report shall be in print No 2026-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Vladimir Tomaszewski to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u101	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! During the second reading of the government draft law amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts 9 amendments were tabled. The Public Finance and Social Policy and Family Committees considered these amendments at their meeting on 23 February 2022 and recommended amendments 6, 7 and 8 to be accepted, while the remaining amendments rejected, with due regard to amendments 1 and 9. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u102	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print no. 2026. The committees also present in the additional report amendments on which we will vote first. In the 1st amendment, applicants propose to give the law a different title. This amendment is combined with the 9th amendment. We will vote on them together. The committees are asking for their rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of Amendments 1 and 9 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 207 - for, 240 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendments. Amendments 2 to 7 were tabled in Article. 1 amending act containing amendments to the Act on occupational retirement schemes. In the second amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 22e. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the second amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 207 - for, 252 - against, no one stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the third amendment, applicants propose not to add Article. 23a and Article 23a 23b. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 219 - for, 240 - against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 4th amendment, applicants propose not to amend Article. 36. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 4th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 208 - for, 241 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 5th amendment, applicants propose not to amend Article. 40. The committees are filing for rejection. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 206 - for, 239 - against, 10 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 6th amendment to the article. 40 applicants shall propose in paragraph. 2 give a different wording to point 4. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 6th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 447 - for, 2 - against, with a hold of 10. The Sejm accepted the amendment. In the 7th amendment to the inserted article. 46a applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 1. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 7th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 449 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. Amendment 8 is tabled in Article. 2 amending act containing amendments to the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. In the 8th amendment to the article. 13a applicants propose to make a different wording of paragraph. 5. The committees are asking for her party. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 446 - for, no one was against, 11 stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print No. 2026, along with the amendments adopted, will press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 457 - for, no one was against, 3 stopped. The Sejm passed a law amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. We are returning to the examination of item 7 of the agenda: the Report of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Parliamentary draft law on the protection of national heritage associated with the designation of public spaces. The additional committee report shall be in print No 1967-A. We proceed to the third reading. I ask Mr Zdzisław Sipiera to submit an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u103	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Additional report by the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy on the Parliamentary draft law on the protection of national heritage related to the designation of public spaces, print No 1937. At its meeting yesterday, the Sejm referred the amendments tabled at second reading to read again. These amendments were discussed by the committees at their meeting on 24 February. They recommend that the three amendments tabled, including one, reject the draft law in its entirety, vote against the amendment concerning the deletion of the article. 7 - to vote against, to delete the article. 9 - also against. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u104	Thank you. The committees are asking for the adoption of a draft law from print No 1967. The committees present minority proposals and, in an additional report, a motion to reject the draft law in its entirety and the amendments on which the Sejm will vote first. In the 1st minority application and the same applications submitted during the second reading, applicants propose that the draft law be rejected in its entirety. The committees are asking for the rejection of these requests. Their adoption will render the remaining proposals futile. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first minority request and of the same proposals made during the second reading will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 214 - for, 240 - against, 5 stopped. The Sejm's request for minorities and the same applications rejected. In the first amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 7. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The consequence of its adoption will be a change in the reference to the title of the Act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 215 - for, 233 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment. In the 2nd minority application and the 2nd amendment, applicants propose to delete Article. 9. The committees are asking for this amendment to be rejected. The consequence of its adoption will be a change in the reference to the title of the Act. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the 2nd minority proposal and the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. For - 214, against - 234, 12 stopped. The Sejm's request for minorities and the same amendment rejected. We proceed with the vote on the entire bill. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting in full the draft law in print 1967 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 245 - for, 206 - against, 9 stopped. The Sejm passed a law on the protection of national heritage associated with the names of public spaces and monuments. We proceed with the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth and the Committee on Health on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws (prints Nos 2015 and 2032). I would like to ask Mrs Violetta Porowska to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u105	Dear Marshal! High Seym! Commissions: Education, Science and Youth and Health after considering on 23 February the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws, print No. 2015, introducing 2 amendments, purely technical, to the above Act, unanimously request the High Sejm to adopt these amendments in points 1 and 2. At the same time, as rapporteur, but also as a representative of the applicants, I would like to thank very cordially the Sejm Comissions: Education, Science and Youth and Health, as well as senate committees, the Senate for very efficient, quick, unanimous, but above all very substantively proceding the bill, which includes hospitals, medical entities and medical students. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u106	Thank you, Member. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In the first amendment to Article. 2 The Senate proposes amendments to point 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. No one was in favor, 447 against, holding off on 12. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 4 The Senate proposes a new wording of paragraph. 1 and amendments to paragraph 1. 2. The committees are asking for this amendment to be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. No one was in favor, against - 459, holding off on one. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law amending the Law on the provision of health care financed by public funds and certain other laws. We proceed with the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies on the Senate Resolution on the Law on the Support of Households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting (prints Nos 2017 and 2023). I ask Mr Radosław Fogel to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u107	Dear Marshal! High Seym! The Commission for digitalisation dealt with the Senate's resolution on the above issue at its meeting on 22 February this year. and asks the High Sejm to accept the amendments set out in points 1, 2, 7 and 8, and to reject the amendments set out in points 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u108	Thank you. We will vote in accordance with the principles applied in the previous item on the agenda. In Amendment 1. The Senate proposes that certain provisions of the Act be applied to digital receivers. Amendments 2, 7 and 8 are combined with this amendment. We will vote on them together. The Commission proposes that these amendments be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against Amendments 1, 2, 7 and 8, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 11 for, against - 448, no one held back. The Sejm adopted the amendment in view of the failure to obtain an absolute majority of votes. In Amendment 3. to Article. 6 The Senate proposes an editorial change. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 3, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 232 - for, 224 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 4. to Article. 8 The Senate proposes an editorial amendment. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 4, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 243-- for, 215-- against, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 5. to Article. 21 The Senate proposes that paragraph be deleted. 2. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 5 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 234 - for, 212 - against, 11 stopped. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 6. to Article. 24 The Senate proposes to add paragraph 1. 3a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 6, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 233 - for, 224 - against, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 9. The Senate proposes to delete the article. 32. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of rejecting Amendment 9, will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 244 - for, against - 213, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this end, we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Law on the support of households to bear the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. We proceed with the examination of item 14 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Public Finances on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on Extraction of Certain Copies (Prints No. 2016 and 2030). I ask Mr Andrzej Costowniak to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u109	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I am pleased to submit a report to the Committee on Public Finance on the adoption of the Senate on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on Extraction of Certain Copies, print no 2016. Marshal of the Sejm according to Art. The Commission shall adopt implementing acts laying down detailed rules for the implementation of this Regulation. On 18 February 2022, 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm addressed the Senate's resolution on the above matter to the Committee on Public Finances for consideration. The Public Finance Commission, after considering the above resolution at its meeting on 23 February 2022, asks the High Sejm to approve the amendments set out in points 1 and 2, reject, in points 3 and 4, adopt, in point 5 - reject, in point 6 - accept, in point 7 - accept, in point 8 - reject. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u110	Thank you. I remind you that the Sejm rejects the Senate's amendments by an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the statutory number of Members. If the Sejm does not reject the Senate amendment, it shall be deemed accepted. On the agenda items on the examination of the Senate amendments, we will vote on the proposals to reject the Senate amendments. Amendments 1 to 4. The Senate reported it to the article. 1 Amending Act, containing amendments to the Personal Income Tax Act. In Amendment 1, the Senate proposes amendments to the paragraph. 1 and 5 in Articles 1 and 5 53a. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the first amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 455 Members voted. 230 - for, against - 224, 1 abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the second amendment to the article. 53a The Senate proposes amendments to paragraph 1. 1 and paragraph 1. 9. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 2nd amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 232 - for, against - 226, no one held back. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In the third amendment to the article. 53a The Senate proposes to delete the executive expression in paragraph 53a. 5. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the third amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. No one was against - 456, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In the 4th amendment to the article. 53a The Senate proposes that paragraph be amended. 9. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Fourth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. 1 for, 458 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. 5. The Senate tabled the amendment to the Rule. 2 amending law containing amendments to the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and employment of persons with disabilities. In this amendment to the article. 33b. 9 The Senate proposes amendments to the first sentence. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 5th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 232 - for, 225 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. In Amendment 6, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. The 4th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the Sixth Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 456 Members voted. 1 for, 455 against, no one stopped. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 7, the Senate proposes an amendment to the article. The 4th Amendment Act. The Commission proposes that this amendment be adopted. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 7th amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 459 Members voted. No one was for, 459 against, no one held back. The Sejm accepted the amendment in the absence of an absolute majority. In Amendment 8, the Senate proposes to amend the reference in Article. The 8th Amendment Act. The Commission requests that this amendment be rejected. We're voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is against the 8th Amendment will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 233 - for, against - 224, no one abstained. The Sejm rejected the amendment by an absolute majority. At this we have concluded the examination of the Senate resolution on the Act amending the Act on Income Tax on Individuals, the Act on Occupational and Social Rehabilitation and the Employment of Persons with Disabilities and the Act on Tax on Extraction of Certain Copies. I would remind you that authorised entities have submitted requests to supplement the agenda: - Coalition Left Messenger Club by points: - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the conclusions of the European Council of 21-22 October 2021 and on the activities of the Council of Ministers following the adoption by the European Parliament of a resolution on the rule of law crisis in Poland and the primacy of EU law, - Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of public finances and measures by the government limiting the effects of high inflation; - Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative, Greens o point: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the actions that the Council of Ministers intends to take in connection with the decision of the Vice-President of the Court in Case C-204/21 R Commission/Poland, according to which Poland, since it has not suspended the application of national rules relating in particular to the powers of the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, has been required to pay to the Commission a periodic penalty payment of EUR 1 million per day; - Koło Poselskie Polska 2050 o punkt: Information by the President of the Council of Ministers on a strategy to counter costs, in particular significant increases in the prices of food and non-alcoholic beverages, energy raw materials, fuel and transport, the use of apartments or houses. As the deadline referred to in Article is approaching, The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Let me remind you that according to the article. The Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 (3) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, in accordance with the procedure laid down in Article 108 We are voting on the proposal for information on the conclusions of the European Council of 21 and 22 October 2021. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 460 Members voted. 225 for, 234 against, 1 abstention. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the request for information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the measures that the Council of Ministers intends to take in connection with the decision of the Vice-President of the Court in Case C-204/21 R Commission/Poland. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 223 - for, 234 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the vote on the proposal for information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the anti-cost strategy. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 458 Members voted. 226 - for, 232 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We are voting on the proposal for information by the President of the Council of Ministers on the state of public finances and on the government's action to reduce the impact of high inflation. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of this proposal will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 457 Members voted. 224 - for, 233 - against, no one abstained. The Sejm's application to complete the agenda has been rejected. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: Changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees (Print No 2046). Bureau of the Sejm on the basis of the Rule. Article 20 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, after consulting the Seniors Convention, submitted a proposal for amendments to the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to speak on the proposals put forward? No one's checking in. We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of adopting the proposal in print 2046 will want to press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 450 Members voted. 431 - for, 3 - against, 16. The Sejm adopted a resolution on changes in the personal compositions of the Sejm committees. I'm calling a five-minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 16 minutes 08 hours 16 min 12]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u111	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13. of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027 (print No 2022). I ask the Minister in the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy, Minister Grzegorz Puda, to present the reasons for the bill. I'm sorry I messed up, Minister, but it's a day like this. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u112	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law on the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027 sets out inter alia. a comprehensive implementation solution, which focuses primarily on the management of cohesion policy programmes. Here we are talking about these solutions described in the so-called. Partnership agreement or legislation. They are in principle similar to those already used in the previous financial perspective. An important point is the implementation provisions for the implementation of the National Reconstruction Plan. And the third point is the provisions that implement actions under the so-called. a post-brexit adjustment reserve. Of course, many, many changes, a number of legislative changes of a follow-up and clarification nature introduced by other laws are a consequence of the proposed solutions. A new law on the implementation of cohesion policy programmes needs to be drawn up. [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u113	Minister, I'm so sorry. Mrs Hennig-Kloska, my dear fellow Members, Mrs Hennig-Kloska, hello! [[Voice from the room: He can't hear.]] Polite request: we're in session, talk outside if you have to. Politely and politely, please. [[Mr Paulin Hennig-Kloska: Mr Marshal, we kindly apologize.]] There's no problem. That's what I'm asking the ministers to do. Gentlemen, hello! Gentlemen, Minister, please come inside. I'm sorry I'm a little disciplined, but I'm doing this in a good way, I'm not yelling. Minister, I apologize for the confusion. There you go. Minister of the Funds and Regional Policy Grzegorz Puda: Thank you very much, Marshal, for your help. The main objective of the proposed law on the implementation of cohesion policy programmes is the introduction of coordination and implementation mechanisms for programmes co-financed by the Structural Funds: the Fund for Fair Transformation and the Cohesion Fund, the identification of the actors involved in the implementation of these funds, their tasks and the modalities of cooperation between them. And the most important area or one of the most important areas is to define the rules for the implementation of these funds, to define the basic documents for their implementation. The draft implementing law introduces specific provisions providing legal certainty to the extent that Union rules are inaccurate or insufficient from the point of view of the correction system, namely controls, as well as specific provisions for the management of programmes at national and regional level, the issuing of guidelines and the functioning of monitoring committees. The Act also provides for simplifications in the system of selection of projects, settlements with beneficiaries or amendments to the Public Finance Act simplifying the implementation of cohesion policy funds. The provisions of the National Plan for Reconstruction are contained in a block of amending provisions as added to the Act of 6 December 2006 on the principles of development policy. The provisions on KPO are contained in the draft Chapter 2aa of the Development Policy Law entitled Development Plan. In particular, the proposed rules cover issues relating to the introduction of a dictionary of concepts relating solely to the implementation of the NPOs, in particular the institutions responsible for the implementation of investments or institutions responsible for implementing the reform, the identification of tasks relating to the coordination of the implementation of the NAP carried out by the Minister responsible for regional development, including. representing our country in contacts with the European Commission and other institutions that are linked to the implementation of the development plan, including the conclusion of reform agreements or other investment implementation agreements, monitoring investment implementation, implementation of the development plan, issuing guidelines on the conditions and procedures for implementation, the detailed scope of the tasks of the institutions responsible for implementing the reform and of the institution responsible for implementing the investment, including, of course, the obligation to implement reforms, investments, in accordance with accepted milestones or indicators, to carry out further controls and to monitor the state of implementation of this investment reform, in the case of investments, the choice of these projects to be supported by these measures, as well as the modalities for entrusting the tasks of the entity supporting the development plan by agreement or agreement. It is important to add that this item also includes the tasks, composition and modalities of appointment of the members of the Monitoring Committee, i.e. the Committee, which later ensures the necessary transparency of the implementation of the reforms under the National Plan for Reconstruction, the way in which the KPO is financed, as it is also important to define and introduce the rules that introduce the way in which the National Plan for Reconstruction is financed from non-refundable support from the budget of European funds and from the funds of the so-called loan. The RRF, i.e. from this part of the loan, which will be distributed within the scope of the State budget, the mode of control of the implementation of the reform, investments, audit procedures, the control of the National Recovery Plan by the Head of the National Tax Administration and the procedure for selecting the projects constituting a separate element of the investment. The expected effect of the draft law to the High House in implementing the programmes will be to create a legal framework which will allow timely and consistent implementation of the legislation in question in accordance with EU law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mr Andrzej Gawron from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u114	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice on the draft law on the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027, Parliamentary printing No 2022. Thanks to the negotiating efficiency of the Government of Law and Justice and personally Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki in July 2022, it was possible to obtain record support for Poland from European funds, i.e. about PLN 770 billion. It is clear that Poland, as a member of the European Union, is fully entitled to receive these funds. The Act is to set up a framework and define instruments to effectively implement European funds and prepare for their efficient spending. According to the assessment of the impact of the bill's regulation, the unit of the public finance sector, including local government units or local government entities, will carry out projects for about PLN 260 billion, entrepreneurs - for about PLN 140 billion, local government organisations - for about PLN 20 billion, and households are about PLN 15 billion. It's a huge budget that needs to be well and well managed. The provisions we are working on are similar to those applied under cohesion policy in the 2014-2020 financial perspective. The need to develop them results from the new financial perspective. The bill itself focuses on the Fund for Fair Transformation and the Cohesion Fund, sets out the institutional framework and the rules for settlement with the European Commission, and includes a system for monitoring projects. We maintain a decentralised system of implementation of cohesion policy in Poland. This includes the national programme and 16 regional programmes. At the level of each managing authority, a spokesman for European funds will be appointed. According to the proposed regulation, the existing mechanism is maintained that the total eligible expenditure is the basis for calculating the Union contribution. In a clear and clear manner, a regulation was adopted on the obligations of beneficiaries in the course of checks to verify the correctness of the spending of funds. As detailed support instruments, the projector envisaged, inter alia, integrated territorial investment. It is a well-known mechanism, which is recognised by local authorities. We already have experience in implementing such instruments. It is worth noting that, in the new financial perspective, the ZIT is intended to be intensively used for the development of medium-sized cities identified in the 2030 National Regional Development Strategy as one of the strategic areas of intervention of national importance. As in the previous perspective, ZITs are to be managed by ZITs. Here comes a new subject: a metropolitan union in the Silesian Voivodeship, which can also operate within the ZIT. The basic implementing entity adopted in the Act is the project. The project must be measurable, have a specific time frame and have specific funding. It is also possible to join forces and create partner projects. The Act also allows hybrid projects involving cooperation between public and private entities. This is the answer to the requested needs. Rules have been adopted to help identify project selection, transparency, reliability and impartiality as well as equal treatment of applicants. The proposed law contains a broad catalogue of amendments to the rules already in force. Their implementation is necessary due to the strategic nature of the project. E.g. a legal basis is provided for the adoption of a resolution on the start of work on a trans-local development strategy and on the possibility for partnerships of local government units to adopt such development programmes. According to the Parliamentary Club, the Law and Justice proposed by the Government is a complete system of regulation that will enable EU funds to be managed efficiently in a timely manner. 2021-2027. The system also includes a number of mechanisms to ensure an objective and impartial selection of projects supported by financial support. Taking into account the proposed regulations, the Law and Justice Club will support this draft law in the vote. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u115	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mr Jacek Protas, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u116	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We would like to say: at last, we are beginning to process the long-awaited law which will define the governance rules for cohesion policy programmes, the National Plan for Reconstruction, this newm, and the post-brexit adjustment reserve in the perspective of 2021-2027. The provisions of this law are based on European regulations and are based on a similar law of 11 July 2014. Therefore, specific audit bodies and audit methods are defined, the way the monitoring committee is selected and the way the programmes are monitored, the control procedure, the project selection system and, which is very important, the appeal procedures are defined. And that is the fundamental difference in how European and national funds are spent. We had examples of strategic investments in the Polish Łódź, we had examples of the Government Fund for Local Investment, where these funds, billions of PLN, were spent out of control, outside the mode. Today we are talking about European measures and because European regulations are the basis, this procedure is precisely defined. That's how it's supposed to be when you spend every dollar in the state. Ladies and gentlemen! During the process, a number of comments were submitted, especially by self-government corporations, in particular the association of voivodships, but also by other public partners, social partners. Some of these amendments, the applications were included in the bill, while some of them were not. They are very important in order to distribute and use European funds efficiently, hence the Civil Coalition Parliamentary Club will submit amendments to this law during the process. We are counting on you, ministers, to take our vote into account as well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u117	Thank you, sir. I invite Mr Mark Owl, the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u118	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! This is a very important bill. As Mr Protas said, long awaited. And as we look at the implementation of the current funds, the European funds in the new financial perspective, I have the overwhelming impression that we have no doubt wasted four months. I have a draft bill from September last year, and I recall the meeting of the subcommittee. monitoring of European funds at which the Director was present. You were shortening the time for a public consultation, but nothing came of it. Today, you want to carry out this bill very quickly by the Sejm, without really giving us the opportunity to work honestly on this document, and I would not want the result of this Parliament's work, which is a kind of custom, to be a bill with errors. This law should maintain a good mechanism for implementing European funds, of which Poland can have satisfaction, because this is not the first time. This is the third debate on the next new programming period. This debate is, of course, extended to the resources of the National Recovery Plan from the Rehabilitation and Resilience Fund, and it actually gives us a legal instrument of EUR 134 billion, because as part of this legislative package so many measures will be implemented. Many partners will be involved, but in order to be able to do so, you are well aware that without removing those barriers that have not allowed us to close and agree on the National Reconstruction Plan since July last year, we will not move. This will also apply to the multiannual financial framework, the European budget. That is why it is so important that you cease to insist and eliminate the Disciplinary Chamber and that we bring the judges back to the case law (the bell), because you have this very clearly defined by the Commission, and so that we can work fairly. One last thing, Marshal. I'm afraid I don't have good news. We know very well that this law, which is late in relation to the period, is now ending its implementation, i.e. from the years 2014-2020, will cause 2023 to be the year of the hole. The year in which there will be no European funds. This year, from the old period, we still have PLN 86 billion. Next year they will practically be gone, because this is the mechanism that it takes a year and a half to close negotiations, most of the programmes to Brussels have not yet arrived to prepare all the instruments for implementation and launch competitions. And unfortunately, there's no time for that. Mr. Marshal! Given that the Public Finance Act is being amended, that the National Reconstruction Plan is taking place, we believe that the Finance Committee should not only be an opinionant of this project, but also work on this draft law, which is why there is a request for extension. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u119	Thank you very much. I've extended your speech by 1 minute 13 seconds, so we'll extend it to the committee... [[Thank you very much, Marshal.]] Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! On behalf of the Left Club, I would like to present my position on the bill. Once again, we have a project presented by the government that is wrapped in beautiful, round and non-reasonable words. I think it's tradition that the United Right is putting more effort into telling us that she's giving us a good project than just working on a project. The government, when submitting its draft law, stated that the regulation introduced specific provisions providing legal certainty to the extent that EU legislation is not sufficiently precise or that more detailed regulation is necessary from the point of view of the national law system. End of quote. In many places of this project, the government really clarifies, but what it wants, and in itself a well-known business. An example: it is worth noting that a number of provisions of Community law explicitly refer to the principle of partnership set out in the EC Declaration Regulation No 240/2014 and give an interpretation of how the role of a partner should be defined. However, the proposals for provisions adopted by the government in the draft law are inconsistent or inconsistent with them. The social side of the public consultation has repeatedly pointed out that the bill gives too strong a role to the central institutions, weakening the local government and taking part in non-governmental organisations. At best, you can be accused of bad will, but the intentions visible in this project are clear: an attempt to control and centralize, so as to have any impact on how and when money from the European Union will be spent. The draft law is not sufficiently defined, among others. the functioning of the monitoring committee implementing the programme. Each Member State shall determine the composition of the monitoring committee and ensure a balanced representation of the relevant institutions of the Member State and intermediate bodies and partners' representatives in a transparent manner. This project doesn't guarantee it. The representation of public, national, regional and local authorities should not exceed half the composition of the monitoring committee. Civil society partners should represent 25%, 30% of the Committee's membership. In addition, each monitoring committee should have a bureau consisting of representatives of partners, including civil society actors. It seems that the projectors have also forgotten the conscientious record of good equality practices. It should be stressed that the monitoring committee should include representatives, representatives of civil society actors, in particular non-governmental organisations, who monitor the horizontal principles set out in Article. 9 the general and fundamental rights regulations and the observance of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union, equality between men and women, the prevention of any discrimination based on sex, race or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation, the provision of access for persons with disabilities. It is also worried that the provisions of the Act concerning representatives of non-governmental organisations who deal with the subject matter, experienced in the programming phase, as well as the monitoring of public policies, which will uphold the standards and implement the above mentioned. principles in the context of European funds. This is crucial for the use of allocation. For example, civil society organisations at the consultation stage pointed out, I quote: the rules on climate expenditure in force in this budgetary perspective require detailed monitoring of the regularity of spending of funds in this respect, and NGOs have appropriate competences in Poland. The appeal was not heard. For the sake of clarity, the records I referred to and a number of others relating to the mechanism of reimbursement, control, the principles of securing the proper implementation of projects, the role of the Ombudsman, the funds make the bill a fiction. In theory, it is designed to ensure transparency and reliability and opens the door to abuses of central control of the spending process in the perspective of 2021-2027. A separate chapter (The Bell) should be devoted to the provisions of the National Plan for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity, which remains a fiction for the time being. Because thanks to the government's actions Poland is effectively rid of this money. As usual, rulers ignore all public life participants. This was the case during the consultation of this project, and I am afraid that this will be the case when European Union funds are available. As the Left Club, we will ensure that this project is refined and that the comments I have made here are also taken into account at the stage of the work on this project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz, Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome, Mr Jack. Jack, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u122	Thank you. Mr. Marshal Włodek!
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u123	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u124	Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We're debating a very obsessive bill, because it contains 360 pages... [[360 pages.]] ...of which half are directly provisions that constitute or amend other laws. It aims to introduce into the Polish legal system development policy regulations with funds from the multiannual financial framework, in other words: the multiannual budget of the European Union designed for 2021-2027, and the specific instrument adopted for the budget period for reconstruction and strengthening resilience, anti-COVID, anti-crisis financial support from the European Union. On the one hand, this is to comply with the provisions of the five Regulations of the Council of the European Union and of the Parliament concerning the European Regional Development Fund, the European Social Fund, the Cohesion Fund, the Fund for Fair Transformation and the Maritime, Fisheries and Aquaculture Fund, which are fulfilled by the Partnership Agreement or should be completed by the Partnership Agreement 2021-2027 between our country, represented by the Government, and the European Commission. We also have the prospect of implementing the instrument for reconstruction and strengthening resilience, which I have already mentioned. Basic questions therefore arise in this context. It is time for this at first reading, in the preliminary debate starting on this project. Minister, at what stage is the partnership agreement between the government and the European Commission required to mobilise EU funds? At what stage are regional agreements between the government and voivodships, which are the basis for transferring EU funds to voivodship authorities? The second key question: What next with the National Plan for Reconstruction? When can we expect this plan to be unlocked? In fact, the question should be: When will Poland fulfil its obligations regarding changes in the justice system in order to be able to benefit from the funds entered into by our country in this National Reconstruction Plan? We remember that both Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki personally and the President of Law and Justice, Deputy Prime Minister Jarosław Kaczyński, made commitments to fulfil these demands of the European Court of Justice and, as a follow-up to this, the European Commission. The declarations were very clear: we will eliminate the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, because, as I remember, President Kaczyński said: it does not meet our expectations. And the results aren't there. The President has taken the initiative, but at the same time two other projects have emerged, for which it is not known what the effect will be, whether there will actually be an effect that will benefit from these European measures. After all, this funding could already have been EUR 4600 million allocated to Poland as an advance last year. After all, this is more than 20 billion PLN, which could already work in the Polish economy since last year. What's the government doing in this situation? I remember the assurances made by your predecessor or Minister Buda in the Committee on European Union Affairs, the Committee on Local Government, that everything is on the way, that in fact in a moment this money will be and the opposition will be disappointed. It's not the opposition that's disappointed. I mean, she's disappointed with the inability, inability to run a team that Mateusz Morawiecki directs, which he represents among others. Minister Buda. And what does the government do at the time? Instead of using interest-free funds offered by the European Union, it issues bonds that are beneficial, but for investors, for buyers. They are certainly not beneficial for Poland, because their interest increases expenditure from the public sphere. What areas are covered by the bill? We are dealing with institutional solutions. We have a speech on settlements with the European Commission. We have procedures relating to the selection of projects, including appeal mechanisms. Finally, we have the introduction of territorial instruments such as ZITs and MOFs. areas of strategic intervention. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We also have issues related to monitoring and reporting. The proposed law also includes, i.e., the designer also includes a number of amendments to the existing laws, including the law on local government. We have as many as 144 articles in this project that could affect 6,000. public finance units and more than 1 million potential beneficiaries. The Act also lays down the rules for co-financing from national contributions to projects implemented by local authorities and beneficiaries. We are aware of the expectations of this multi-annual EU budget for the period 2021-2027, both in local governments and among Polish entrepreneurs, farmers, NGOs who are waiting for this money, so that they can help in the real development of Poland and break the effects of the epidemic, in getting out of the effects of this economic slowdown that caused the epidemic. We are therefore already ready as a coalition club to work on this law, but we want this work to be carried out in a serious way, and not as it has so far treated the Commission for. The European Union...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u125	Mr...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u126	...and the local government committee, Minister Buda. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u127	Thank you, sir. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, near Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u128	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! We all know very well how we are here, in a couple of people in fact, maybe a dozen left in this Chamber, that this bill should have been a long time since the President signed it, and that you are at least six months late in working on these records. But the biggest problem today is that nothing to do with the bill, if we don't get the money, if you don't reach an agreement, not to reach an agreement on, for example, the Fund for Reconstruction, which should already stimulate our economy and solve problems in Poland. The delay in the payment of EU funds will have an impact on the development of the Polish economy, slow down investments, increase in GDP. You were just enjoying high GDP for January, but we know very well that this high percentage of January is caused by a very low base from January last year when the galleries were closed, and if almost 100% We've grown the sales of clothing or footwear, that's what's causing this base and this growth, this development is going to flatten out here, but in the next few months. But the biggest problem is that today we are losing the chance to obtain easy money, to solve the basic problems of Poles and Poles, because these are measures for health or energy. Today we are facing another, for example in connection with geopolitical events, the challenge of cutting off and building energy sovereignty - there is money for this, Minister. They should have been in our trade for months. Our economy is affected by the loss of the advance which should be paid to Poland by the end of 2021. Today, for example. As far as the National Reconstruction Plan is concerned, you know very well that every project we have to accept, then find pre-financing for it, then implement it, then we can settle it. The impact of these funds on our economy, on our country will be very, very late and it is more difficult to implement any further project, even through the need for pre-financing. Deadline on the booking of money is inevitable from the National Plan for Reconstruction - 2026. It's gonna be really hard to spend all the money in less and less time, which is why you're figuring out, and you're starting to implement these projects, I understand, out of debt, because there's no money on them. So much for basic issues relating to the acquisition of funds that should already be working with us. As a general rule, the system of financial flows and the clearance of programmes (the bell) within the financial perspective 2021-2027 is not changing more in relation to the solutions in the 2014-2020 perspective, but we will, of course, work on the individual provisions of this law as Poland 2050. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u129	Thank you very much, madam. I would like to ask you, Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, near the Polish Socialist Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u130	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the PPS Parliamentary Circle on the Government draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027. The government actually worked hard, and it took him a lot of time, much more than it should have, and it turned 361 pages away - this is the bill. But we all remember billboards announcing PLN 770 billion, which were to come to Poland. Unfortunately, in view of the actions of the PiS, against the wild stubbornness, so as not to eliminate the Disciplinary Chamber, which is not a court within the meaning of EU law or within the meaning of the Polish Constitution, we pay a million euros a day for the existence of this House, which should be long since been abolished. But that's of course nothing compared to the threat of just PLN 770 billion. It cannot be ruled out that this government draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds will have to be thrown into the basket at all, because there will be no funds, if the PiS, the government will not finally remember if the parliamentary majority does not close down The Disciplinary Chamber, because it is already completely decided that the money will be for the rule of law and there is no rule of law in Poland. On the other hand, on the other hand, I must say that more than 1,200 civil society organisations already made comments a few months ago concerning, above all, insufficient consideration of the role of the partners set out in the European Partnership Code as civil society actors, including NGOs. It was noted that the provisions set out in this draft law are not compatible and inconsistent with Regulations 2021/1060 and 2021/1057 of June 2021 and Commission Delegated Regulation No 240/2014 of January 2014. These comments are still not sufficiently reflected in the text of the project. There is a great risk that even if we (the bell) get EU funds, they will be spent in a way that leaves much to be desired that again the role of guys will play, that the government will do what it wants again, and that is absolutely unacceptable. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u131	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, let's move on to asking questions. There are six people who are gonna ask these questions. I'm setting 1 minute for questioning. [[Is there any more you can do?]] And Mr Mirosław Suchoń from Koła Polska 2050 will be the first person. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u132	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! EUR 134 billion - I think it is an unimaginable amount for all - was negotiated by Mateusz Morawiecki, including the mechanism of the rule of law and for this mechanism, Prime Minister, thank you. Now this project has gone to the Sejm. This project may enable the absorption of European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027. I say, maybe because the PiS government is blocking these measures today, insisting on breaking the rules that should be obvious in every democratic state. This money could be lost to citizens, businesses, our little homelands. These measures may not be seen by the inhabitants of Bielska-Biała and the counties of Bielski, Cieszyński, Pszczyński and Żywiecki. This clearly means economic weakness for my region. I only have one question for the Minister: When will the government end this discrediting argument and unblock (the bell) the funds, also for my region? Please respond in writing. I have a motion for your marshal. In view of the importance of the project for the economy and the business sector, I request that the project be submitted to the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development for an opinion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u133	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u134	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It follows from the content of the Act that Poland intends to consume EU funds for the implementation of the Structural Funds, the Cohesion Funds and the Fair Transformation Funds and intends to meet the requirements set by the European Commission in this regard. In view of the above, I would like to ask the Prime Minister, who signed up for this project, why, as head of government, he tolerates the banging of the Minister in his government, Mr Zbigniew Ziobro and the associated activists of Solidarna Polska who perform important state functions. After their banging, the minister of one of the most important resorts calls, on the one hand, to limit Poland's payments to the budget of the European Union, calls for disregard for EU judgments, and lately he is directly talking about the responsibility of the Prime Minister for concessions to the European Union. Why does the government tolerate such insubordination from a member of the Council of Ministers? Why is it not consistent with the conduct of policies inconsistent with government policy, which could lead to a serious weakening of our country's position (the bell) within the European Union? Has today changed anything about this? I will ask for a written reply and ask the Minister to tell the Prime Minister that I expect this reply from the Prime Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u135	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. Are you an MP? You can't see. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u136	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The National Reconstruction Plan is a very important instrument for the development of Poland, but also of local communities and individual sectors. Minister, I'd like to ask you one question. Mr Morawiecki, Prime Minister, said at the meeting of the agricultural committee on 9 February.: The government will not wait for final approval of KPO, will launch funds for water retention, processing support, energy for the Polish village. I want to declare that these programmes will be implemented regardless of the process of ratification of the NPOs. If these programmes are being implemented and can be implemented in the opinion of the Prime Minister, I would like to ask about the possibility of implementing another plan that the Left was seeking and was included in the CPO, namely the construction of 75 thousand. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Low-cost apartments for rent. Therefore, I have the final question: Will the unapproved KPO be implemented at random? If yes, will the funds spent be included in the settlement after approval of the KPO? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Adam Gawada, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u138	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! The provisions we are working on are a necessity for the start of a new financial perspective. Besides, the bill itself focuses on the Fair Transformation Fund and the Cohesion Fund. Specific support instruments are envisaged, inter alia. integrated territorial investment. I therefore have a question: will this instrument apply to the development of smaller, medium-sized cities as indicated in the national economic development strategy? Can the metropolitan union in the Śląskie voivodship operate within the ZIT? One last thing. We are well aware of the need to make a very big effort in the process of transformation of mining, mining and modernization of Polish energy regions. Will new regulations be introduced for these projects? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u139	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Fabisiak, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u140	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The beneficiaries have already tabled a number of amendments to this project. I have no doubt that the Minister is well aware of their content. These are extremely important amendments and I think they will be considered not only in committee. ? Speaking of which, Mr. Marshal, this project should look at all the committees, because the programmes are very different: from the economics through the social ones. So I cannot imagine that only one or two committees will respond to this project. So I have a question about your attitude towards the amendments tabled by the beneficiaries, even those tabled by the local government, by the NGOs mentioned here. Second question, equally serious. We have heard in this debate that the implementation of this project, after its adoption, is about 1.5 years, 2 years. If so, we will actually be halfway through the process (the bell) when the project should be realized and the money - spent. So is there a plan B for which projects will be carried out and which projects will not be carried out? I'm mostly interested in these social projects, which are extremely important to people. Could I get an answer from the Minister on this subject? How was this planned? Because delay is a fact. Thank you very much. Thank you, Marshal, for the extension.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u141	There you go. Mrs Joanna Senyshin, near the Polish Socialist Party. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u142	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the project for spending funds, an Ombudsman is to be appointed but to be appointed by the managing authority. It seems that it should be a person selected by means of a competition and that, of course, it should be accountable to the managing authority each year by reporting. Will work be carried out in this direction? The point is to change the project. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u143	Thank you very much. Please respond to the Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Funds and Regional Policy by Minister Waldemar Buda. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u144	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for this debate on the law on the implementation of financial tasks from European funds. Of course, this bill... A few speeches were consistent. They concerned the pace of work on the law and the potential delays suggested here. I can absolutely not confirm this, perhaps to the dissatisfaction of many of you, but please bear in mind that the regulations that provided the basis for the drafting of this law were not published until July 2021. The delays in the implementation of the procedure are therefore due to the delay in the adoption of five regulations: the general regulation and subsequent regulations concerning individual funds, which were the basis for the preparation of the law by us. But this delay of the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, is not particularly important here because this law will be used when we have an approved partnership agreement. We have signed a partnership agreement on 14 December and in accordance with the general regulation are 4 months to approve the partnership agreement by the European Commission. So by April 15 we have time to adopt this draft law, because then it will be needed from the perspective of the partnership agreement and cohesion policy. So there is no delay in the drafting of this bill. Indeed, we have worked quite hard on it, it is extensive, but let us remember that it contains twice as much material because of the inclusion of two instruments: cohesion policy and the National Plan for Reconstruction. And the adjustment reserve after the brexite. So these are three, you can say, instruments, one of which is very small, but the solutions here also apply to this. Now, going to the substantive speeches, I would like to say that firstly, the wording came up - Mrs Falej pointed to the monitoring committee - that each country is setting up such a monitoring committee. There is a certain parity in terms of access to the participants, to the members of this committee. The first information is this: the monitoring committee is our idea of transparency of spending funds under the NIP. There is no minimum requirement in this respect in the RRF Regulation and most countries that implement their NPOs do not have such a monitoring committee. So not every country. And no country, no one's ordering us, we're the ones who offered. I would also like to say, frankly, that, in our discussion with the Left, we have proposed the shape of the monitoring committee, which we present today as an additional element, showing our openness and transparency in spending European funds, based on this good position in the absence of irregularities in spending European funds from the present perspective, because we are leaders in this area in the European Union. With regard to the marginalisation of partners, because this is where the wording came from, we indicate on our own initiative that the non-governmental sphere will have a majority in the voluntary committee. I wish partners were as discriminated against as on this committee. In fact, the law states that they should have a majority, which is at least 50% votes are to be allocated to non-institutional entities, not the public sector. Mr Protasiewicz pointed out the risks to the partnership agreement. The Partnership Agreement was submitted in accordance with the deadline resulting from the Regulation, i.e. December 15th. We are now conducting informal negotiations and consultations with the European Commission and the agreement should be approved by the European Commission by 15 April. Of course, there were also questions about KPO, meaning: What about KPO? It raises my thought to this question: What about KPO? The situation is that when it comes to KPOs, we have done our job: we have submitted KPOs, we have negotiated technical terms. The approval of the European Commission was to take place in 2 months, and for the approval of the KPO is, you can say, a friend from the European People's Party. Let me remind you that Mrs Ursula von der Leyen is from the folk party and she has to sign our KPO today. We therefore expect such a decision, and we expect such a move. The fact that there is a reform involved, that we are discussing the justice system, is yes, but we do not allow ourselves to influence the justice system, which is not harmonised in Poland, so we cannot afford anything. Here Mr Mirosław Suchoń took a quite local voice, referring to the potential losses that such cities could gain, e.g. Bielsko-Biała or at all Silesia Cieszyński and these regions. I must reassure you, Mr Grzegorz Puda, who comes from that region, is the Minister of Funds and Regional Policy - I am only a humble Deputy Minister (The Bell). I must, therefore, reassure the Member and ensure that I do not think that the region in question is affected to the slightest extent. I think that it will be particularly promoted there and will certainly benefit from European funds, both from the NPOs and from cohesion policy. As far as the next questions are concerned, I'm going to allow myself a moment longer, and I'm going to answer three or four more questions. Initiatives which are of an agricultural nature and were announced that they would be launched despite the lack of KPOs. Yes, on the basis of this law - we still have the autocorrections that we will make - we have an instrument that will allow us to move forward with investments in 2022, planned for EUR 4.4 billion. It will be expenditure that we will partially implement from the budget and then refinance from the KPO. So when it comes to the schedule that we planned as part of the KPO for 2022, we have no delay, we are walking in the rhythm that we have planned. In the meantime, the approval of the committee approving the NPOs will come, and then the advice in this regard. With regard to the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman's competitions, this is the institution that we thought was worth setting up, although there were no requirements of the European Commission in this regard. I think it should be appreciated that such an institution will exist and function at all. I do not imagine any competition or report before the Sejm or even in a wider group to present about an entity that is not located, for example. in the Constitution. Only such bodies shall submit such a report before the High Chamber. So it seems to me that the rank of this entity, in general its existence, is a great value for this system, which points to a certain transparency, one can say a few degrees higher than in many Member States such as Italy or Greece, because we also know their systems for implementing measures. With regard to Mr Gadawa's questions, it is indeed the regulation that also affects the Fair Transformation Fund, which actually concerns the majority of Silesia. Of the total allocation of EUR 4.4 billion, 2 billion are placed as additional resources for Silesia. EUR 2 billion is a huge amount. Indeed, the whole instrumentarium, which is to implement European measures, also applies to this fund. So it is to be expected that if we link funds from the regional programme, these funds to Silesia plus JTF, these will be huge funds, a few billion euros in the near future to be spent in Silesia. I think every Silesian will see the effects of investing these funds in the near future. As for the ZITs that have yet appeared here, the ZIT formula is even extended to what was. There was a number of ZITs, so-called. voluntary and also agglomerative. Only agglomerations benefited from national resources, benefited from regional resources, programmes and national resources. Today we proposed to extend this to include sub-regional ZITs. It's about smaller towns like Bielsko-Biała. I can reassure Mr Suchon that ZIT, e.g. ZIT Bielsko-Bialski, will have additional funds from the FENIKS national programme. That's a very good decision of Minister Grzegorz Puda. etc., etc. The ZITs are basically extended to smaller centres than those of the agglomeration, large ones. There were 12 or 13 of them, and there'll be about 20 of them. We also extend it to middle cities. This size of the city also has similar challenges, common investment challenges, for example in urban transport. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-02-24-sejm-49-2.u145	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed. The Marshal of the Sejm, after consulting the Sejm Bureau, proposes that the Sejm refer to the Government's draft law on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021-2027, contained in print No 2022, to the European Union Commission for European Affairs and to the Committee on Territorial Government and Regional Policy, with a recommendation to consult the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Social and Family Policy for consideration. As the discussions have asked for this proposal to be extended to the Committee on Public Finance and to consult the Committee on Economic Affairs and Development, we will vote on these issues. We will proceed to the vote on these proposals in the voting block. Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes the agenda items scheduled for 24 February this year. I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned by 3 March 2022 until 3 p.m. 10. Thank you for taking part in today's session of the Sejm. Thanks. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 17 min 10]]
