ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u1	Please take your seats. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Tyszkiewicz, the discussion is over. I open the forty-second sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I appoint Senators Alexander Sweed and Senator Richard Świlski to be the secretaries of the sitting. The list of speakers will be led by Senator Ryszard Świlski. Dear Senators! In view of the situation of epidemic danger after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to give this meeting a special formula and run it traditionally and hybridly. Rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in this procedure shall be governed by Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. The Senators taking part in the meeting remotely! Please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to the questions and speak in the discussion during the chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal. Under this number you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphone yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Speaker of the Senate and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Chancellery. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you do not have time to join the session before the session is blocked or your call is lost, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. I remind the senators who use the application to participate remotely in the sitting that they start voting, so-called. polling in the Webex system will cause a message to appear. To take part in the vote, click "OK." I would like to remind you that 2 buttons need to be pressed and passed during the vote. Please state the results of the vote. 90 senators voted and so many are currently attending the sitting. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, on 12 May 2022, Mrs Maria Paniczyk-Podziej, Vice-Marshal of the Senate of the 8th term of office, Senator VI, VII, VIII and IX of the term of office died. In the 6th Senate, she was a member of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Family and Social Policy. In the seventh term she worked in the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad, and in the 9th term she worked in the committees of culture and media, as well as in the regulations, ethics and senatorial affairs. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon her."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. High Senate, I inform you that on 30 March 2022, the head of the CBA forwarded to the Senate a document on the results of CBA's activities in 2021. This document is contained in print No 681. On 5 April 2022, this information was addressed to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. The Commission took note of this document at its meeting on 21 April 2022. I would like to inform you that on 9 March of this year, the President of the National Judicial Council forwarded the document to the Senate from the activities of the National Judicial Council in 2021. This document is included in print No 664. On 11 March, the information was sent to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, which took note of the document on 21 April this year. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its fifty-third meeting on 28 April 2022, adopted the only amendment of the Senate tabled to the Act amending the Local Government Act, adopted part of the amendments of the Senate tabled to the Act on the rules for the implementation of tasks financed by European funds in the financial perspective 2021 and the Act amending certain laws in connection with the development of public ICT systems. The Sejm rejected the amendments of the Senate submitted to the Act amending the Act on the Law of the Teacher Charter, the Act amending the Act on the Protection of the Rights of Tenants, the Housing Stock of the Municipality and on the amendment of the Civil Code and the Act on Accessibility to Persons with Special Needs. I would like to inform that, at its fiftieth session of 12 May, the Sejm adopted the only amendment of the Senate tabled to the Act amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws, adopted most of the amendments of the Senate tabled to the Act on Humanitarian Aid and Medical Aid, adopted part of the amendments of the Senate tabled to the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws, the Act amending the Act on Pension Supply of Professional Soldiers and their Families, the Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, ABW, AW, SKW, SWW, CBA, Border Guard, Marshal' Guard, SOP, State Fire Department, Customs and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. The Sejm rejected the Senate's amendments tabled to the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. In the absence of objections to the minutes of the 28th and 30th meetings, I state that the minutes of these meetings have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the 40th Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose that points two, three and six to eight of the draft agenda be considered, although the committee's reports on them have been submitted at a later date than referred to in Article. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose to supplement the agenda with points: the law on amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that country and the Act on computerization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks and considering it as a point of the first agenda, at the request of the Ministry of Digitalisation; the law on establishing the National Day of the Silesian Uprising and considering it as a point of the fourth agenda; the Act on amending the act on taxation of goods and services and certain other laws and consider it as item 9 of the agenda; consent to the criminal liability of Senator Magdalena Kochan and consider it as item 13 of the agenda; consent to the criminal liability of Senator Tomasz Grodzki and consider it as item 14 of the agenda. If I do not hear the opposition, I will consider that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. I propose a change in the order of consideration of the previous second paragraph, i.e. the law amending the Foreign Service Act and certain other laws. and consider it as point five. It's at the request of the Ministry of Foreign If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? No. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 40th second Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term. Tonight, an hour's adjournment at committee meetings will be announced at 7:00 p.m. Once the meeting is resumed at 8 p.m., we will proceed with the examination of item 13, followed by item 14 of the agenda. These are immunity issues. Immediately after the examination of paragraph 14 there will be a vote on these matters, followed by other votes on the laws that have been dealt with today. The remaining votes, if any, will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of the first item of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Act on Informationization of Activities of Entities performing public tasks. The text of the Act is contained in print No 710 and the report of the committee In print No 710 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And your senators wishing to continue the discussion, please transfer her to the clowns.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I present to you a report on yesterday's meeting of the Joint Committees. The report concerns the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks. The meeting was attended by Minister Andruszkiewicz with the team, representatives of the Polish Towns Association and representative of the business association. The aim of the Act is to facilitate Ukrainian citizens residing in the territory of the Republic of Poland in connection with the armed conflict to find jobs corresponding to their qualifications by creating a tool enabling the collection and sharing of information on the professional qualifications of Ukrainian citizens, which could serve employers to find employees with the desired profile, and on job offers for Ukrainian citizens. In view of the situation we've been observing for months... We know how important it is for Ukrainian citizens who are in Poland to find a job. It's gonna be a lot easier. The bill comes from a government proposal. It was adopted by the committees after a brief discussion. The discussion was also attended by a representative of the business association, who informed about the conclusion of an agreement with the government which would facilitate professional stability and assistance to Ukrainians. It is also about certification in Poland of the rights that Ukrainian citizens have. The senators raised this issue in the discussion, said how important it is and how important this law is. During the meeting, the legislator presented a problem that... Well, actually no amendment has been tabled here, and neither has the legislator proposed an amendment. It's about art. 3 of the Act on Information Technology, which provides that the Minister responsible for Information Technology will determine, by means of a communication published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland, the dates of the start-up of the system and the availability of certain functionalities. The legislator noticed that according to the article. Article 9 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 of the Law of 20 July 2000 on the publication of normative acts and certain other acts in the Official Journal, in addition to the laws, judgments and uniform texts listed in paragraph 1. 1 and 2 of this Article may be published other acts if the legislator so decides. But in view of the importance of the subject I am talking about, the committees voted unanimously in favour of this law without amendment. On behalf of the Joint Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, I ask the High House to vote in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Does anyone want to ask that question? Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u4	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, this bill is very important. I would like to ask if there were any statistics presented at the committee meeting, how many refugees have already taken up employment in Poland. I know that at the end of April...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u5	The Minister only said that more than 1 million people applied for a PESEL number, and this is a condition for being formally registered on the territory of the Republic of Poland. A large number of Ukrainian people residing in Poland have not yet applied for PESEL. This is probably due to the fact that they are waiting for the end of this armed conflict, this war and will want to return to Ukraine. Perhaps, and so during our discussion, we expressed a presumption. They simply do not want to become permanently involved with Poland at this moment, taking up work here, but want to return to Ukraine and rebuild their country as soon as possible. [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u6	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] It must be commended that the question and answer took a total minute. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. No further questions. The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister of Digitization has been authorized to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At this point I will welcome the Secretary of State, Mr Adam Andruszkiewicz, and I will ask: would the Minister like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government, or not, if that is not necessary?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u7	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This is an extremely important submission. As you know, today we have many visitors from Ukraine, refugees, who had to leave their homes, their homeland because of Russian aggression. The Polish state is meeting with us, helping our Ukrainian friends as well. He wants to create an IT system, which will be designed to enable the smooth entry into the Polish labour market for willing people. Of course, it is a voluntary and free system. We also want to help employers so that they can better and easier reach potential employees on the basis of this system, because we know that those who came to us from Ukraine have very different qualifications, and we would like them to find a job as much as possible according to these qualifications, but also for employers to have easier access to such people. Thank you very much to the Senate committee for unanimous support of this submission and I ask the High House to do the same here in the Senate of the Republic of Poland. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'm at your disposal, of course, if you have any questions for us.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u8	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. I see the reliable Senator Swede wishes to ask such a question. The second in order is Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u9	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, as I have stressed before, this is a very important bill, and thank you very much for it. But I'd like to ask... Because the senator gave me information about PESEL numbers, and I also asked. on the issue of refugees who have taken up employment. Do you have such data? Because somehow at the end of April I heard there were about 100,000 of them, but I didn't get the details. Do you have such data? If not, I may ask for a written reply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u10	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u11	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The Minister of Digitization does not keep a register that indicates the number of people employed, that is not our prerogative. But we can absolutely answer to the senator, I think, in writing, asking for such data to the appropriate department, most likely to the Minister of Labour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u12	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Kwiatkowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u13	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The project is a government submission and in the context of legislative work at government level, and in relation to the opinion of the Legislative Bureau, which I will quote here a brief passage, I would like to ask how this could have happened... In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: The 3th opinion of the Act provides that the Minister responsible for IT will determine, by means of a communication published in the Official Journal, the dates for the start-up of the system and the availability of its functionality. This provision cannot be reconciled with the Law on the Publication of Normative Acts. In accordance with the relevant article of this Act, only the official documents listed therein are communicated in the Official Journal, and none of the provisions of the Law on the publication of normative acts and certain other legal acts gives the possibility to publish notices in the Official Journal, does not allow such possibility even optionally. Hence the question: why this mistake? How are you working on the files? Did you know at the level of government legislative work that this is unacceptable? And what lessons will you learn from this for the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u14	Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u15	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the statement that this is unacceptable is, in my opinion, incorrect, absolutely so far-reaching, I would not draw a conclusion. We also talked about this on the Senate Committee with a representative of the Senate Legislative Office. This is what we used in other laws. But we agreed in this discussion that it would be worthwhile for us to develop common procedures at the level of the Sejm, Senate and Government when it comes to establishing law in our country. I absolutely do not think that this is a mistake that needs to be corrected today, especially since both the Legislative Office of the Sejm and the Senate have not submitted any comments and amendments to this submission... [[Mr. Marshal, I'd like to correct...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u16	Thank you very much. The question, but briefly, because there's already another one...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u17	Question. How can the Minister say that the Senate Legislative Office did not comment, since I quoted the legal opinion prepared for the Senate meeting, which was prepared by patron Jakub Zabielski from the Senate Legislative Office? So how can the Minister say that there were no comments in this regard? I literally quoted a passage from the Legislative Bureau's opinion. [[You didn't listen to the report.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u18	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u19	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I mean, there was no amendment, which is that if the Legislative Bureau thought it was a legal error, it would have had to make an amendment to the bill and it didn't. The discussion actually took place, although I don't think it's... [[The Legislative Bureau doesn't make any amendments.]] Mr. Senator, I didn't interrupt you. [[Don't argue with me.]] But he can propose an amendment, by some senator, by all means. We know it's a practice. This is where we agreed it wasn't gonna happen. Yes, thank you, and I ask the High House to support me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u20	You're asking Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u21	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I understand that these two responsibilities here imposed on you, that is to say, to start the IT system and make the functionality available, will probably be at the same time. Can you tell me roughly what time it's gonna be? That's the first line. And the second point, nature a little more general. Is this system working for Polish citizens at the moment? Is that, for example. Is the employment office regulated in any way? Or are we going to stretch it out to Polish citizens?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u22	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u23	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As for when the system will be started, we hope that it will run within the next 30 days. I'm counting on this system to work by the end of May and June. Therefore, the urgent procedure of this law. And I also thank the Senate for leaning over this bill so quickly. When it comes to extending to the citizens of the Republic of Poland... At the moment, we believe that an institution sufficient to mediate in finding work for our citizens is an office of employment because in Poland today we have practically the lowest unemployment in the European Union. But we absolutely reserve such an opportunity and such a right, if ever necessary. We also talk about this with our employers. This system, Mr Senator, can be extended and extended to other citizens of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u24	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the minutes. The Minister has also committed himself to answering the questions of Senator Swede in writing. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? I don't think so. [[Voice from the room: Minister is obliged...]] [[Voice from the room: Already...]] Yeah, I said he committed himself to handing over a written reply. [[Talking in the O.R.]] We're listening. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held, hopefully, today and certainly at the end of the Senate meeting. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u25	We proceed with the review of item two of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on investment in the scope of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 700 and the committee's report In print No 700 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment, Senator Mariusz Gromka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u26	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment on the Act amending the Act on Investments in the Regasification Terminal for liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. Ladies and gentlemen, at yesterday's committee meeting, a parliamentary project was discussed, which was presented by ministers. Ms Małgorzata Golińska, State Secretary at the Ministry of Climate and Environment and Mr Maciej Małecki, State Secretary at the Ministry of State Activities were present at the meeting. The aim of the Act is to ensure the correct and timely implementation of the investments necessary for the operation of the LNG terminal in the face of energy transformation challenges and structural changes within the gas sector. The Act introduces changes due to planned structural and organisational changes in the company Polskie Górnictwo Naftowe and Gazowiectwo. It assumes that PGNiG's successors will be able to invest in the LNG terminal in Świnoujście. The Act also provides for the possibility of portability of exploration and mining concessions obtained by Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry. In this Act we update 5 laws. There are changes to the Law on investment in the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście, the Public Road Act, the Mining Waste Act and the Act on Environmental Information and Protection, public participation in environmental protection and environmental impact assessments. There are also changes in geological law, in the Geological and Mining Law Act. Following the presentation of the law, the Legislative Bureau submitted 2 detailed comments, 2 amendments which were taken over by Marshal Maria Koc. The discussion has begun. Senator Jolanta Hibner and Senator Adam Szejnfeld spoke in the discussion. Senator Jolanta Hibner suggested that PGNiG should complete its investments, that in the face of war it should not be done as proposed in the Act, and therefore filed for the rejection of the Act. Senator Adam Szejnfeld as if he shared that opinion. There's been a vote. Senator Jolanta Hibner's motion to vote he didn't get the majority, so we voted on the two amendments that were adopted. In the vote on the law, the committees, together with the amendments, gave a positive opinion on this law. Mrs Marshal, the committees are asking for the bill to be adopted together with these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Zdrojewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u28	I have a very short question about the title of the bill. Because in general, we have this impression, those who are not in the committees, that the law concerns investment, and yet the law is completely different. I would like the Senator rapporteur to say directly what this proposal concerns.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u29	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u30	It concerns the creation of such conditions so that, in the event of any changes in ownership, a new entity, which will manage these investments, can proceed smoothly with their continuation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u31	Thank you very much. Senator Magdalena Loven. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u32	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, does this mean that in this bill we are talking not about the development of the gasport in Świnoujście, but about taking PGNiG and connecting it to Orlen?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u33	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u34	We are just talking about creating the conditions so that, in the event of a possible merger, these investments that are currently being implemented can continue. Also during the discussion there was a discussion about this and it was said whether it was a potential merger of PGNiG with Orlen. [[That's one more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u35	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u36	So why does the senator think this bill has the wrong title?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u37	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u38	We received the bill in this form from the Sejm and this was not discussed at the committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u39	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u40	Mr. Senator, here's my question: who's running the gasport in Świnoujście today?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u41	Gas-System. [[Is there even an opinion of the Gas-System?]] [[There isn't.]] [[Thank you, that's enough.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u42	Thank you very much. Is there another question? There isn't. Thank you very much, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was introduced by Members. Mr Marek Suski was authorised to present the applicant's position. I don't see Mr Mark Suski in the gym. At present, the senators... well, they can't ask questions because you're not here. The Minister of State Assets has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Welcome to Minister Piotr Dziaddzia and Minister Maciej Małecki. Do any of you wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u43	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Act is, as the Senator rapporteur said, This law also introduces solutions to facilitate the operation of the gas terminal in Świnoujście, for example in such a way that in the case of the merger of Orlen and PGNiG these tasks, which are legally assigned to PGNiG, will naturally be able to switch to a new entity. If there was no merger, we are talking about the fact that companies are being restructuring, within a given group a daughter company may be separated for certain tasks. This bill also allows for such solutions. Thus, it gives greater flexibility in carrying out activities in the field of the transfer of concessions, while maintaining the supervision of these concessions by the Polish State. Several other laws are therefore also subject to amendment. It is no secret that the main addressee who will be able to use this law will be the entities involved in the merger of Orlen and PGNiG. Today, the current legal order allows for the transfer of concessions if there are few companies. Meanwhile, in the case of PGNiG we are talking about 250 concessions and related 13.5 thousand administrative decisions and acts. With such a large number of administrative requirements, it would not be possible to effectively transfer the concession from one company to another. However, I would like to stress that we are not just talking about Orlen and PGNiG, we are not just talking about gas concessions, because this law concerns all concessions issued by the Minister responsible for the environment and these solutions will remain in our legal order. Well, maybe that's it from the ministry. Of course, as a government, we support this bill. Thank you for yesterday's positive opinion of the Senate Committee. I ask the High House kindly to accept this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u44	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report from the site for no more than a minute. Mr. Minister, please stay because there will certainly be questions for the government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u45	Minister, your colleague from the same department spoke at the previous Senate meeting. And some of the senators, actually, all of the Senators of the PiS shared his view. The fact that the adoption of a law that concerns a particular company is a scandal, a very bad practice. This concerned a project which included a ban on sales, privatisation of some companies, not one, but some companies of the Treasury. Here you are saying that this bill concerns the merger of Orlen and PGNiG. Do you share that view? Is this a scandal or not? I'm asking you to write a bill for a very specific project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u46	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u47	Dear Senator, It is difficult for me to refer to a statement I have not heard and a context I do not know. At the same time, in my speech today, I have made it clear that this law introduces solutions that will remain in our legal order permanently, and concerns all entities that have concessions for hydrocarbons, coal, ore, sulphur. This is a law that facilitates business activity in Poland, and that, by the way, improves energy security and facilitates the transfer of concessions from PGNiG to Orlen, it is a matter of every measure legitimate and a step towards improving energy security of Poland. [[Mrs. Marshal, may I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u48	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Gawłowski will ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u49	I'm just gonna ask about the Gas-System thing. How many mining licenses does Gaz-System have? As we know, the Gas-System manages the gasport in Świnoujście. And how many times is Gaz-System mentioned in this act?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u50	Dear Senator, Gaz-System cannot have a mining licence because it is an operator. [[I know that.]] Mr. Senator, I think he knows perfectly well the third energy package and the principle of separating infrastructure management from the possession of concessions. However, PGNiG is mentioned in the terminal law in several cases and this law is also the subject of this amendment today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u51	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u52	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I have a question about PGNiG. We know that at a time of prosperity, when Mr Wozniak was president of PGNiG, there was the best result in history. He was also the longest president in power. Later, a very political board was appointed, connected with the political cross-section of the PiS. And we've got a negative 30 billion zlotys. What does this show, and how does PGNiG see that, so to speak, the repair of this result? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u53	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u54	Mr. Senator, I don't think I'd agree here, because there was no negative 30... [[There it is.]] So PGNiG as a group last year are we talking about last year? It was on the plus side, it had 6 billion net profit. I don't know where you come up with that kind of information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u55	Thank you. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u56	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I have this question: when will the decision to connect PGNiG with Orlen be made? I understand there's no decision at the moment, and we're doing these rules for something that's not there yet. How does the government predict when this merger can take place? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u57	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u58	It depends on the acceptance of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Please make such a distinction that the merger of Orlen with Lotus requires the acceptance of remedies by the European Commission, while the merger of Orlen with PGNiG requires the acceptance of remedies by the Polish antitrust office. At the moment there is a process of planning remedies, and after acceptance there will be further decisions. I emphasize that it is not the government that is leading in this merger, the leading one is Orlen. This is where commercial companies, public companies operate. In view of the provisions in force, the decision to transfer assets will require the approval of the Council of Ministers. I don't want to give you dates here, but I'm hoping it'll be closer than further.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u59	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u60	Minister, since this is conditional on the Lotus-Orlen connection, then I have a question: when can we expect this decision to be finally taken? I understand that the conditions will be laid down for the Commission to accept. In the absence of any objections from the Commission, what is to be expected, what may be the deadline? Can this happen by summer, or will it be in autumn? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Mr. Senator, here I would... Mrs. Marshal, if I may...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u61	Well, well, well.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u62	Mr. Senator, I didn't say under any circumstances that this is conditioned by a connection to Lotus, I just separated two processes. [[Exactly.]] The merger of Orlen and Lotus is the European Commission, the merger of Orlen and PGNiG is the UOKiK. [[Yeah, yeah...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Senator, but I would ask the Minister to answer.]] And here it's just... I don't want to predict. I hope this will happen in the coming weeks, maybe months, but I will not replace the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection. Well, then the decisions will be made in the companies.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u63	Thank you very much. Senator Arthur Dunin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u64	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, I was not to speak, but you have repeatedly said that this law serves the energy security of Poland. Well, how can you use words like that when this bill is about us selling our assets and our safety is at stake? How can you lie to Poles like that? It's just not acceptable. So I'm going to ask you this question again: how can you lie like that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u65	Thank you. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u66	Mr. Senator, I don't know which words you've drawn this conclusion from. What you said is completely untrue. The sale of national assets was an attempt to sell Lotus to the Russians. [[That's what you're doing.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please calm down.]] You know... Well, let me put it this way: it's hard to relate to something that has nothing to do with the truth. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u67	Please keep your emotions quiet, ladies and gentlemen. This is not a debate, I remind you. We're asking questions for now. I ask for peace both on the one hand and on the other. Are there any more questions? Senator Magdalena Loven. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u68	Minister, the law on which this discussion is being discussed is not in the government. In accordance with this submission, which we have received, this is a parliamentary initiative. Isn't it surprising, Minister, that such solutions, which should be absolutely in the hands of the government, are being dealt with by Members of Parliament? Why do you think Members replace the government? And one more point. I do not believe that when Members go to the construction of such legislation, they do not ask the Government in advance. Who in the government, in your ministry or in other ministries helped and consulted the Members who wrote this bill?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u69	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u70	Dear Senator, I spoke in the Sejm, and today in the Senate, that the government supports this bill, or actually the law already adopted by the Sejm. This law was carefully analysed by the government and received positive acceptance. In this case, I can thank Members for introducing solutions to make it easier for entrepreneurs to act. [[Excuse me...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u71	Thank you very much. Senator, again?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u72	I have no doubt that you consulted. I'm asking if anyone from the government, from government professionals, helped write this bill. I do not know of negative acceptance, but since the Minister used the wording of positive acceptance, I will stay with him. Well, you've accepted it, as we hear it from your mouth. I ask who helped write it, who is de facto the author of these records. Because it's the government's responsibility, certainly not the legislative authority.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u73	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u74	Senator, I'll answer again. In accordance with the law, a group of Members has the right of legislative initiative and has taken such a legislative initiative. The bill was analysed by the government, just as any draft presented under the legislative initiative, and received a positive opinion. Yes, we supported this project in the Seym and support it in the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u75	Thank you. [[One last question.]] There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u76	This is not a common practice. Does the Minister deny that the draft law which entered the Sejm was created in the government and that, in order for it to be faster, so that there would be no consultations, including inter-ministerial consultations, Members put their names under this draft? You're denying it. Or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u77	Senator, I think that... let me put it this way: it is offensive to Members signed under the bill that they have planted their names. Well, it's worth asking these Members. I think they'll refer to how they've been treated. I would also like to say that this is a practice. Projects can be government, projects can be parliamentary, projects can be civic. In each case, there is an analysis of whether or not the government supports these solutions. I answer once again that after an examination of this project there is support for this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u78	Thank you. [[Just one more thing...]] Senator, last one.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u79	If I offended someone with that statement you picked up on the minister, I'm sorry. But you didn't answer my question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u80	Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u81	What more do you want me to say, Mrs. Marshal? I've answered that question several times. I think the fact that the applicant's representative is the head of the State Energy and Asset Commission is very substantive. This is a substantive committee in the Seym, best for this kind of thing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u82	I think the real problem is that you have no representative of the applicants. Then maybe we could get an answer to those questions. Senator Adam Szejnfeld. [[Thank you, Mrs. Marshal...]] [[Disruption during the speech]] Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u83	My microphone didn't turn on. There it is. Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I have a question. I was in a gas-port a few days ago, talking to the board of the Gas-System and the employees. No one reported, no one claimed, no one talked about any problems with the expansion investment. The Act concerns the amendment of the Investment Act. Can you, Minister, indicate... It should be remembered that the expansion started in 2020 and is due to end soon, next year. Now there's this third tank, the new one, and there's the roof. Can you point out specifically, by the articles... [[Timer signal]] ...which provisions of this law relate to the expansion of the gasport in Świnoujście?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u84	Mr. Senator, I'm going to mention which provisions of the terminal law, which areas of the terminal law concern PGNiG and make it easier to... We are talking about: the expansion of gas warehouses, including the construction of ground technical infrastructure, the construction of storage wells, the construction of pipelines linking facilities, the storage facility, the extension of installations, the construction of storage chambers, the construction of pipelines connecting installations inside, construction or reconstruction of installations to improve the quality parameters of gas fuels and infrastructure necessary for their operation. These tasks included in the terminal act are assigned to PGNiG. Whether there's a merger or not, it's... Even if it were to be reorganized within PGNiG, what happens in companies, because companies are constantly subject to organizational improvement, the rules now prevent... If PGNiG wanted to transfer these tasks to a special purpose company within its capital group, it could not do so at the moment. This bill gives you opportunities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u85	Thank you very much. [[Just one sentence, if you don't mind.]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u86	Minister, you confirm all the votes that have been cast here today, those that are in the opinions of the Legislative Bureau and also in my opinion, i.e. such that, no matter how you judge this law, this law is not about what its title is talking about, and you should write to Members 'Cause that was definitely the mode and order. The applicable law, having a title appropriate to the subject matter and content. So the question is... I do not even want to burden you with this question, because, at least theoretically, not you, the government is not the author of the bill, it is the Members. I could just ask why the government didn't protest and why it didn't change the title of the bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u87	I'm gonna answer it again because this question is repeating itself. These regulations, regardless of the merger, will remain in Polish law and concern many areas. Therefore, I think that... a few laws are being amended by this amendment, improvements are being made, which I have already mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u88	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The short question is, what would happen if this law did not enter into force at the right time? What effect would this have, of course, on investment delays?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u90	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u91	Dear Senator, the great process of consolidation between Orlen, PGNiG and Lotus also requires the safe functioning of this very important part of the Polish economy, also in changes related to the transfer, pooling of assets. As I mentioned at the beginning of my speech, companies that have several, several or several dozen concessions would cope with the current legal situation with the transfer of these concessions... rather the authorities would manage. In the case of PGNiG, we are talking about 250 concessions and 13.5 thousand administrative decisions and acts. This would create such a legal vacuum, because it could not be carried out smoothly. The process of strengthening this Polish fuel and gas sector could suffer from this, and I stress that we are talking about energy security in our country. Poland is in general the last country in the European Union with different companies in the fuel market from the same owner who are in some way competing with each other. [[Excuse me, Mrs. Marshal, I'll ask you again.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u92	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u93	At the moment, we are in a sense racing against time to ensure self-reliance in individual energy sectors. We are talking about the Russian issue, the conflict, etc. I understand that the absence of this law would make this race over time more difficult and perhaps not successful.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u94	Yes, Mr. Senator, that's a risk. The point is that, if we have legislation, if we have legal solutions to facilitate the transfer of concessions, the acquisition of immediate investments in the terminal in Świnoujście, which I mentioned, then at the time of the final consent to the merger of Orlen with PGNiG, we can immediately proceed and carry out this process efficiently without damaging the energy security of the country.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u95	Thank you very much. Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u96	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, we're talking about a race over time, a safe operation. I just wanted to ask in this context about the safe operation of the company's employees. That's about 35,000 people in Orlena and 25,000 in PGNiG. As far as we know, there are no arrangements so far, no words that would make them feel safe when this happens. What about them? Please tell me at what stage are the conversations or information about how it will work when it comes to the employees of these companies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u97	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u98	Dear Senator, it is the boards of companies that conduct dialogues with employees. Once again, the Ministry is not the leading entity in the merger. These dialogues are conducted by the boards of individual companies, public companies. I would also like to point out that, in the case of mergers, we are talking about the fact that PGNiG's companies enter the Orlen capital group and continue to operate. This merger aims, on the one hand, to improve the energy security of Poland and, on the other hand, to improve every action of the Government of Law and Justice. And here the main owner is the State Treasury And the security of the employees. For example, the experience of Orlen and Energi's connections shows that employees do not lose out on this. I think that in this case you can also look with some optimism into the future. And labour issues aren't some sort of synergy element that would be presented as the benefit of limiting the crew, because such... Employee issues are not presented as part of the benefit, the benefit of reducing the number of employees. I've never heard of such plans.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u99	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Thank you very much, Mr. Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets Maciej Małecki: Thank you.]] [[Applause]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u100	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Izbo! That's too bad. And I'm sorry that with such an important subject, which, if not directly, is indirectly the energy security of the country, I have to say that here's another example. I don't even know which one to count in hundreds anymore. The scandalous violation of the rule of law by Law and Justice in the Polish Parliament. I mean a thread that was raised by many senators, namely that such a bill... If not to suspect, but simply to know on this matter, to understand its difficulty, its administrative and technical nature, it would have to be stated that such a law is absolutely impossible, impossible to write, create and bring to Parliament by Members. This is the domain of government. Not only in Poland, but in the world, in democratic countries. And here such a bill is brought as a message. Like I said, we've had hundreds of examples of this in the last seven years. It's not enough, it's being manipulated here. Under the motto "Gasport Expansion in Świnoujście," the motto certainly triggers positive emotions, universal consent regardless of political parties, views, etc. Everyone who does not even know the energy and energy security of the country knows, or at least feels, that this is a very important element of our security, is being introduced, which completely does not apply to this law. I would like to remind you of the title of the Act: investment in the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście. As I said in the course of asking questions, I was in Świnoujście a week ago and watched with a positive assessment of the expansion of the gasport. I believe that the decisions taken and the implementation itself are very positive, very positive. Only that none of the interested expected any laws, new regulations, the introduction of new articles in this law did not propose. This is also proof that this is not the law that we are talking about today. By closing the topic of legislative manipulation and legal forgery in Poland, however, I would like to thank the initiators, the applicants of this law, because it is worth mentioning, on the occasion of it, that not only the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki boasting from morning to evening, who is least involved in this matter... It was the previous governments that led to the fact that today we can feel safe in terms of energy, at least in terms of gas. And since I thank so many actors, I would also like to say and express a positive view on gasport as an example, as one of the few I have to say this with regret positive examples of how the fundamental principle of the democratic state should be implemented, and thus the institutional continuity of the state. This is one of the few investments in Poland that have their continuity. She's implemented by five governments, now sixth. Unfortunately, as I have already said, manipulating, this is, of course, attributed only to one government, only to the last one. It is therefore worth recalling that the decision to build the terminal was taken in 2006 by the government of Kazimierz Marcinkiewicz At this point, Prime Minister Marcinkiewicz sends my warmest regards And its implementation, construction and commissioning took place in the days of 3 governments, 2 governments of Donald Tusk and the government of Prime Minister Ewa Kopacz. So the construction in the years 2010-2015. Today, under the reign of Mateusz Morawiecki, there is an expansion, i.e. the addition of up to 2 tanks, which have 160,000 m3, another, larger, having 180 thousand m3. The sum of the summarum will achieve a capacity of over 7.5 billion m3 of gas to be converted. But Gazoport was not the only investment in building the energy security of the Polish state realized by the Civic Platform. In itself, he would not have achieved this goal either now or in the future, even if the construction of the next terminal was completed in Gdańsk. Namely, we increased the storage capacity from 1.6 billion m3 to 2.8 billion m3. We built Poland's largest oil and gas mine Lubiatów ♪ Between the east and the west Grotów. I am particularly pleased about this, and I have knowledge in this area, not only because I was involved during the construction of this mine, but also because it is in my constituency. We have also built new cross-border connections, one with the Czech Republic, in Cieszyn, and another with Germany, in Lasov. And it must be remembered that without cross-border connections there is no country's energy security and there would not be. You can see the current situation of other European countries, especially Central Europe, which have problems in this area. We also expanded gas warehouses, among others. in Wierzchowice, Mogilno, Strachocinie, Kossakowo and Husów. I'm not gonna talk about the reverse on Jamale anymore. Those who are interested in the subject know them. So, to conclude this thread, I would like to say that if in the Polish state, as in the first years, from 1989 to 2015, governments, regardless of who they represent, what ideas and ideologies they profess, carried out the tasks of maintaining the continuity of the functioning of the Polish state in each of its institutional fields, today Poland would on the one hand be definitely further in its development and on the other hand it would be safer. We do not have this because in 2015 you considered that the Polish state was established in 2015, and previously there was no Polish state, there was a commune that did nothing but destroy the state and the nation. In this example, I would like to make you aware that the responsible authority should act in exactly the way I said it would. And I would like to call for you to return to the standards of a democratic rule of law, in which there is respect for the predecessors, the preparation of the ground for successors, and Poland and Poles are the most important. Not a political party ruling the currently conquered 'Cause sometimes that's the way it feels. The country. I am very happy and thank you to all governments since 2006. That they continued the construction and now the expansion of the terminal. I hope that all this will not be corrupted by the concepts of harmful mergers that have already been mentioned here today, and so Orlen with Lotus and then the whole... This is actually not just a merger of Orlen with Lotus but a sale of Lotus, the creation of a new Orlen and the acquisition by a smaller entity of a larger entity, or PGNiG. That's what this bill is about. It's not about the terminal, it's not about security, it's about taking PGNiG. And that's why our club will be against this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u101	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u102	Thank you very much, Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen! Minister! I would like to say that I recall a conference at which it was announced that Orlen would take over PGNiG. And I have this feeling when I remember Mr. Kwieciński was then president of PGNiG and was sitting in a bench. The quarterbacks were Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, Prime Minister Morawiecki, as well as Mr Obajtek. And I had the impression that the PGNiG company would be vassalized. It must be said that PGNiG is closely implementing the plan that Prime Minister Buzek outlined in 1990 when he spoke about the gas hub. This plan was successfully implemented by PGNiG, especially when Piotr Woźniak was president, who worked very well with Minister Piotr Naimski. These two gentlemen have done all this effectively. It must be said that PGNiG has strengthened abroad and in the country, reduced dependence on Russian gas from 10 billion m3 in 2016 to 9 billion in 2018. Overall, imports of energy materials from Russia decreased from 70% to 60% in the overall balance sheet over 4 years. The company contracted gas supplies from Qatar and the USA. The company strengthened its position on the market, bought 4 deposits in Norway, licensed deposits in Pakistan, started to try to invest in Ukraine and started work on the Norwegian pipeline, which is to be completed by the end of this year. PGNiG ensured the profitability of this pipeline. We're talking 80%. capacity from Norway, which means it will be profitable. It was indeed a true diversification of gas and independence from Russian gas. The investment was, of course, prepared by the Gaz-System, but the author has to be remembered here. The author of this whole concept was Mr Buzek in the first phase, who talked about joining Lithuania, Ukraine and Slovakia through the hub, whose construction began. 2016 brought us a law which to some extent excludes the liberalisation of the gas market in Poland. As we know, according to the European Union, full liberalisation is to be in 2024. If this takeover happens now, then... There is much concern that Poles will not feel price discounts after the merger of Orlen and Lotus. It's the same at the moment. We have the highest prices of fuel, oil and gasoline. For a long time, although on the international market we buy them cheaper than in the crisis in 2010, we buy them for about $100 a barrel. That's why there's a lot of concern. This merger will also lead to the creation of another monopoly that will not allow us to enter into the liberalisation of the market that has been in force since 2024. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u103	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u104	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It so happens that in 2009 I was one of the co-authors of the law, which concerned the construction of the gasport. Very actively, then as Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Environment, I worked with those who were preparing this project at the Ministry of the Treasury. And I have to say that as I read today the project prepared by the so-called. a group of Members... So-called, because they signed up, Minister, but let's not kid ourselves, it's too specialised a project for Members to write it themselves. I need you to show me who wrote this. There is no rapporteur, so we have no one to ask. But I am absolutely convinced that this project has been prepared in the government and that you have only shortened your legal path, avoided public consultation, inter-ministerial consultations, etc., by submitting a parliamentary project. It is reprehensible, but by the PiS quite commonly used practice, reprehensible, but unfortunately widely used, which I say with pain. And you made it clear that the intention of this bill was something that outraged the PiS senators at the previous meeting: writing a bill for a very concrete project. This is a bill. Minister for Agriculture and That's what he said. It's written under a very specific project. Of course, the rules will, but it's written for a concrete project, to connect Orlen to Lotus. This does not outrage you today because it is PiS, but as Marshal Borusewicz said earlier, it was outrageous. This is a kind of hypocrisy, the Himalayas of hypocrisy on this side. And it's so easy to get out right away, so easy to see right away. But I'm leaving these trips because they don't bring anything. I'm still trying to understand why you put a bill that allows the merger of PGNiG with Orlen into this particular bill. I've decided to reach for the comparative material. Art. 38... He's even curious about this side of the room. Not everyone has to remember that, so I'll remind you. Art. 38 of the Act, which concerns the gasport in Świnoujście, is an article which lists a whole range of accompanying investments to ensure the gas safety of Poland. And in this article appeared e.g. The construction of the Baltic Pipe connecting the transmission systems of the Republic of Poland and the Kingdom of Denmark... As far as PiS is concerned, when he says that they did the Baltic Pipe, it is possible to answer that in 2009 it was in this law. If they say it, you can tell them they're lying. That's what I'm talking about. They didn't do it. It's been written down a long time ago. Moreover, it is similar in this article to the construction of interconnecting pipelines which are a combination of transmission systems of the Republic of Poland and the Czech Republic, the Republic of Poland and the Slovak Republic and the Republic of Poland and the Republic of Lithuania. It's all in the article. 38 Gasport Act. But when I read the article. 38a, I see that this article inserted in this law no longer concerns investment. He really only applies to the legal successor of PGNiG. Polish Petroleum Mining and Gas Industry is also mentioned in this Act in the first part when the technical infrastructure is on its side, i.e. construction of ground technical infrastructure, construction of storage wells, etc., execution of a whole range of investments. And that's why PGNiG was mentioned here, in this gas-porting bill, not for other reasons. Here I could refer again to every particular example and show what kind I don't know what to call it. The failure is practiced here. You should have called the law properly, i.e. About connecting PGNiG and Orlen, and at least in this part you'd be honest. But you can't even afford it. You can't even afford it, even those simple things you can't properly call. But since it is a gas transport law, I will also remind you that Polish LNG, a company of commercial law, was involved in the implementation of the investment related to the gasport in Świnoujście. Today, Polish LNG no longer exists, without the law it was connected with Gaz-System. Gaz-System actually absorbed, as a mother company, Polish LNG without a law, without any law, no law was needed for this. But, of course, I was consciously asking the Minister how many licenses Gaz-System has. I know he can't have any, because he's a system operator, he doesn't deal in trade, he doesn't sell, he can't extract in such a simple way. There is therefore no transfer of mining concessions. There is simply no transfer here, it cannot be in such a simple sense of the transfer of concessions. But you're up to it, you've written a bill that's actually going to make the procedure easier. I'll be honest: when you make things easy, it's usually the exact opposite, because then it's... I bow down, the punishments will go on for a long time! Congratulations, you guys are gonna be very serious about this one day. I could make a long list of your omissions, your negligence, or perhaps just failure, your lack of knowledge. Well, you shouldn't have fired people who had knowledge, maybe they would have told you. But you guys did all this, so you're gonna have full consequences. This project really doesn't deserve any support. The idea from start to finish is based on bad faith. You wrote it in the government, you gave it as a parliamentary project, and you put it under a gasport that has nothing to do with this project. There would be no problem if, in such a technical dimension, you would look at it, if you wanted to do this combination, you should conduct this process, although I think it's harmful too, but do it without a law. Bo, I'm sorry, but... If I were to be mean, I'd say it's just another case of lex Obajtek. Once already such a lex Obajtek concerning RES in the beginning of 2016 or 2017 you passed through the parliament and then, in the process, it cost Poland many billions of zlotys. You bought part as companies of the State Treasury, but in proceedings before arbitration one of the US companies expected to change the law of billions of zlotys... I know you don't want to remember that today, but it's all about the law. And it's not gonna be funny how different they're gonna come for you because they're gonna come, and you don't have to worry about it. Because these are real things: we're blowing billions of zlotys, just like in the world. And then you will really have cause for serious worries, because life is moving faster than you think smiles are disappearing, it will be extremely serious, it will be sad. That's what I guarantee you. The project, as I said, does not deserve support, because it is harmful, misaddressed, with bad intentions. I'm thinking, since this case is about gasport and piggyback, I'm going to introduce you. 'Cause I've got a little bit more, three minutes, a little bit of facts about the gasport itself. Indeed, Senator Szejnfeld was right, the Marcinkiewicz government decided in 2006 that we were building a gasport in Poland. At the time, a man named Rafał Wiechecki was Minister of Maritime Affairs and he wanted it very much in Świnoujście. President Lech Kaczyński wanted it to be in the Tri-City, so precisely, I mean not in Świnoujście, he absolutely chose another location. And it was a serious dispute at the time, a dispute over the location of the gasport. He was not decided, he was decided definitely only in 2008, after the change of government. Then this special act was adopted, in 2009 and then I remember, because I was also working on the process of issuing environmental decisions... To those who do not know, I will say that each such investment starts with the adoption of environmental decisions In 2015, or actually in 2014 and 2015 Polish LNG started work on the expansion of the gasport, the construction of the third tank. In 2015, the government was amended. In 2016, it was decided to suspend the expansion of the gasport in Świnoujście by a third tank. The case was brought back in 2020. So once again, the only credit that's on the side of the PiS is the release of the expansion process. If I were to assign something to the PiS, it would be delaying, nothing more meaningful. Oh, and in the case of a gasport in Świnoujście there stands such an obelisk, such a little post-Soviet, already falling apart, because it's also a crappy performance, with the inscription "The." President Lech Kaczyński. I'd be ashamed of it because you can't even take care of it. Now that you have named this port, a gasport named Lech Kaczyński, make sure that at least this obelisk looks decent, because it's really falling apart. This is the only credit you've got in this part. As far as the rest of the cases are concerned, I've read the records from the gas-porting bill, who's already remembered and typed... I can also quote when the EU funding decision was made. But it seems to me that the hard provisions of the 2008 Act themselves, from 2009 clearly show that it was not the PiS that started anything with regard to gas, at most very much delayed it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u105	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Wojciech Piech. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u106	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Senator Gawłowski's words have been heard here. He's creating himself as a prosecutor who's gonna scare us because of what we're doing. I think we're a good and efficient government. Law and Justice has knowledge, experience, competence. We are already a second term, the government of Beata Szydło led, and the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is leading a good policy. Economic growth is at a high level. At the moment, we have such conditions, not other conditions. I will just give you the directions for importing natural gas into the EU in 2020. The import of gas into the European Union is 400 billion m3, gas consumption 541 billion m3. From the direction of the Russian whole... From the Russian side, we import 153 billion, from Norway, the European Union imports 75 billion, from the UK 15 billion, from the United States, because this is just developing. 16 billion m3, Algerian 29 billion m3 and Qatar 16 billion m3. How'd it go so far? To date, Poland has been importing almost 90% from the eastern direction, i.e. Russia. Gas. Yeah, because the 2010 jamal contract required us to buy 13 and 14 billion m3 of gas, that's what we were going to buy. This contract was to be in force until 2031 but the European Union did not agree for such a long time. It ends this year. We took the initiative of the 2006 initiative to build this gasport. You've finished this and it's very good that this investment is finished. At the moment, we're modernising it and increasing its capacity to 8.5 billion m3. A swimming terminal is also to be built in the port of Gdansk. At the moment, it is said that even 2 objects, or 2 regasification ships, will dock there and we will be able to increase the share of liquefied gas imports by another 6 or maybe up to 12 billion m3, and we will become completely independent of Russian imports. We will be such a hub, because countries such as the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Austria, do not have access to the sea, do not have ports, do not have the possibility to bring liquid gas, because it is not a simple thing. I was in that gasport, too. We had a meeting of the economic committee there, Mr Adam Szejnfeld mentioned this. There are 94 people working in this gasport. And there's no need to worry about the crew, because the crew is very efficient and fulfilling all their tasks. I think the bill is good, because in these days we can't, so to speak, forever play some nuance. If this is the need for a moment and the provisions of this law need to be brought into legal order, then we should do so. And I will vote in favour of this bill. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u107	Thank you very much, Senator. I would ask you very much to take the floor of Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u108	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm gonna start by saying that I'm a senator for the first term and I'm devastated by legislative sloppyness and what the current government is doing when it comes to law enforcement. I come from the local government, and if we, in the local government, were to be prosecuted as the current government is currently proceeding, then either the prosecutor would take care of us, or we would be verified quickly by the locals. It's a serious bill that really determines giant money, and thousands of people who are addicted to it when it comes to consolidation and acquisition. Because this law is obviously aimed not only at energy security, which is obvious, but above all at taking over PGNiG. The way I proceed with this bill is shocking and reprehensible to me. Once again, using the parliamentary project to process a very serious law, which includes: avoids public consultation. I've talked to trade unions and Orlen trade unions and PGNiG many times. I've been writing statements. I got these answers, let's say, not satisfying enough for me, and PGNiG unionists. Me, too, from my experience... I come from Lubuskie Voivodeship. I know the whole story. For example, a Diamond from Zielona Góra, then transformed into Exalo and later losing its role as a mining company. And I'm not just worried, I'm scared of this giant thing. I don't know why it's supposed to be about taking over more successful companies. It's to create a collective farm like the old days that's supposed to take care of everything. And mining, and import, and also selling vodka at gas stations, because that's what this giant is all about. As I mentioned today, the takeover of companies, whether it's Lotus or PGNiG, raises huge doubts and controversy. People and, above all, trade unionists and employees of these companies do not really know what this is supposed to be, and therefore, of course, I will also vote against this law. So many bugs, so many bugs that were made, for example, in the introduction of the Polish Deal... You make the same mistakes and you do exactly the same. I'm also shocked by the functioning of the UOKiK. UOKiK, who should stand guard As the name indicates: Office for Competition and Consumer Protection In fact, it serves the ruling party. Because in order not to react and allow the merger of such powerful companies, leading to the creation of a giant and the creation of a monopoly... One company will decide everything. And about the prices of gas extracted from Polish sources, and imported gas, and this proverbial vodka at petrol stations. It's a terrible and evil direction. Is that why the system was changed? That's why Poles fought to get away from the socialist or communist system, in which the ruling party actually had all the arguments in their hands to manage this country, creating the colossal things that are currently being created? And I don't know what's next. Energa's taken over. Right now, there's a lotus taking over, and then there's a lotus taking over. PGNiG. What else is gonna happen? We are really striving to return to the past and build a giant, of course politically dependent. There is no doubt that the decisions that are taken here, as far as the economic operator is concerned, are really political decisions. I will, of course, vote against this bill. It is harmful, it serves neither the state nor thousands of employees in those entities that are functioning well today. There's no reason to ruin it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u109	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u110	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I, to be honest, did not intend to speak, because the bill seems rather uncontroversial, but so many demagogical statements were made in this Chamber that there would have to be a few points to straighten out. The first point is what Senator Gawłowski was talking about. Of course, the gasport is an investment we started and continued by you. You yourself know that such projects are planned for a long time. It's not like you go into construction with a shovel. I was talking about gas, about dependence or independence of Poland from gas, as if I was a policy of the Platform or PSL, I would not speak because we all know what the contract was and how it was controlled by NIK. There's a report, you can get a look at it. I think Senator Gawłowski knows him. The European Union's actions and all those negotiations that Pawlak conducted... We know how the government's negotiating guidelines have changed. We could say that at the end of the year we'll be able to become independent... end the import of gas from Russia... It can be said that this is due to the European Union, which did not then allow you to sign the contract you wanted to sign. I am speaking as a government of Platform and PSL. Then the Union said, "Stop." These are too far-reaching connections. Indeed, since 1 January 2023, we will be able to become completely independent of Russian gas and, as we know, Russian gas is used as a weapon. The countries that Hungary, but not only Hungary, because Germany, the French and the Austrians have a problem today because they are unable to become independent of this gas. And we're comfortable today. Yes? That's kind of the first line. Second line. It's about the bill and what Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz said. I'd say, Mr. Senator, just type it in. It's in Google and see what a powerful concern he is, for example. Shell, what kind of area of business you run there. I'm not talking about American companies anymore, because they're megapowers. If we combine Orlen, PGNiG, Energa, this joint multi-energy concern will be a European medium. It will not be the largest company in Europe, and it will be very, very far away to American companies. Why are we doing this? By the way, Mr. Senator, it's not like Orlen's taking over PGNiG as he took over Energa as he bought it. It's like he's in the process of taking over Lotus. It's going to be a PGNiG connection with Orlen, it's something completely different. They're gonna connect two entities, they're gonna exchange shares. What will be the result? It's gonna be like two effects. First of all, we're gonna make it impossible for all these macheras, because the PiS is probably gonna give power to those on the left, those liberals from the Civic Platform... So you don't ever get the idea that you're gonna privatize it. Yeah, but not long ago, that's what I'm going to say, she's been declassified by Deputy Prime Minister Jack Sasina by a note, as you were going to sell to the Russians all Lotus. All the way from A to Z, and the gas stations, and the refinery. It's a shame you're not here today, Mr. Marshal Borusewicz, who defended this Lotus so much. And in the rule of the Civic Platform, boom, the whole Lotus was supposed to go into Russian hands. [[Sold...]] Well, it wasn't sold because there was a resolution, Senator. There was a resolution, there were signatures... [[Voice from the room: How were they...]] Well, they were in the Seym, there were protests, etc., etc. Well, it's worth checking it all out, checking it out, Google uncle will help. This information is already public today. Ladies and gentlemen, if we join today... Because now you have to tell yourself what situation we're in today. Today we are in such a situation that as far as PKN Orlen is concerned, there the share of the State Treasury is below 30%. There is, of course, a specific resolution, and we have put in place some kind of safeguards. If we combine this today, I emphasize, we combine, because no one is taking over, it will simply be an equivalent combination, the exchange of shares of PGNiG and Orlenu, then the share of the State Treasury in this connected entity will be much, much larger, because it will be within the limits, I think, of about forty-several, at 50%. So as a state, we will have full control of this entity. Well, PGNiG in a piece on the stock market... I think it was under the SLD. How many rehearsals... We remember the Orlen thing about how they wanted to privatize Orlen, and I'm not talking about Lotus anymore. Of course, it wasn't you who wanted to privatize Orlen. If we build such a big, mega-energy company today from the merger of PGNiG and Orlen, then no governments that will ever operate there will be able to privatize it, and the Treasury will have more power... [[Talking in the O.R.]] I know, Senator, that you would sell everything. It just doesn't work. Yes? Look what the Norwegians did. They could sell their Statoil, and yet they think he should be state-owned and profit the state. And look... I remember writing... I was working with Adam Lipiński at the time, and we wrote this interpellation in connection with the sale of 10% KGHM. Then for a fraction... Well, it went through the stock market. I think you've sold 10% in the last two weeks. If you would look today at the value of KGHM's investment today, how it supports the Polish economy... [[Get to the point.]] Please? To the point of... [[Please don't disturb the senator. I really...]] ...that if we can do this and we can do it, we will have one strong multi-energy company that will respond to the challenges of the future. Let us remember, ladies and gentlemen, that in a moment there will be such technological progress associated with hydrogen, associated with all these new sources of energy, that we need to exploit the potential that Orlen has today, and the potential that PGNiG has today to synchronize it. Because what I'm going to say is that at the point of gas and today's refinery, this technological revolution is going to be realized in terms of fuel sources. So it's worth to have it synchronized in one entity, even more controlled by the State Treasury. And you know that if you go public with too much stock, then you've got to figure it out. Well, here's something I can tell you about in plus. It was about the Azota Group, as the Russians wanted to come in, that's when you blocked it. It was glorious. But that was the consequence of too much stock being put on the market. Today we have the same problem with KGHM that these levels are so low that it needs different legal solutions... If we join these entities today, this entity connecting PGNiG and Orlen will be fully controlled by the State Treasury. We will know that the Polish state will be secured for years, that it will be able to function. Ladies and gentlemen, there is one more thing. I understand you're talking so badly about both of you, but the profits that Orlen is making today... [[What kind of margins does he have?]] Please? The profits that Orlen's making today weren't available at all... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator, but in your reign, Orlen was a monopolist, too. I say yours, because you are in a political formation. [[Timer signal]] So it doesn't... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] It's not like this Orlen guy has different conditions now. Well, I think he's got tougher market conditions today, and yet profits are at a decent level. [[Mr. Senator, time.]] And so we can invest to become independent of oil and Russian gas. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u111	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u112	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I didn't want to speak anymore, but I just heard in two speeches, the commendation of the commune. All that was missing was a statement that the Polish United Workers' Party... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, That's the kind of song that's supposed to come out here. How about a red flag? I don't know what colors you're attracted to. Because all those who remember PZPR also remember building blocks, unifications, great combinations that were supposed to do something. And then it was expensive, inefficient, inefficient, and in the end it was bankrupt. This is the direction you want to determine for Poles, coming up with these different ideas. Well, that's what it's gonna end with. I say it with regret as someone who remembers the times of the Polish People's Republic. Those who remember them should also remember all these unifications and combinations. That's exactly where it's headed. But that's not what I wanted to talk about. I would like to refer only to hard data and substantive issues. About the Świnoujście gasport, I'd say there's an old saying: tea doesn't get sweeter than mixing. You were the mixing specialists. You made a resolution that you wanted to do something, and it was the only thing you did. Only because Minister Wiechecki was determined to bring it into the Council of Ministers' deliberations, so it was described. Nothing more, nothing more, no more, no more. There was no more action. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Uncle Google, I'm sending him back. I'm sending it back to my Uncle Google. Work on the Gas Transport Act started in 2008 and was adopted in 2009. An environmental decision was adopted in 2009, following very difficult cross-border negotiations with Germany. I know because I was part of it. It was very difficult, I want to tell you about it. It was one of the things that... Well, not the only one. The first phase was completed in 2015. The first gas ship, a technical ship, but already such a normal one that filled the gasport, entered before the 2015 elections. Next thing you know, ships were coming in to deliver gas to regasification. That's what you guys don't like about the platform, and that's what you're criticized about. Well, if anyone shouldn't talk, you're on this side of the room. Those who know anything about gas, e.g. Wozniak, they're talking about it quite clearly. Wozniak is a minister of economy in the government of Jarosław Kaczyński. You should listen to him more often, then maybe something would get to your heads. But you only listen to TVP, and it's rare to say anything that has something to do with the truth, maybe beyond the date and time. It's real. The rest are just lies. Even the weather is only likely there. [[Talking in the O.R.]] It's likely, just like any weather on any television. But just so you know... Well, you don't have to know about it. I'm getting back to the point. This is the first case. The second point is the physical reverse on the Jamal pipeline. Providing financing for Baltic Pipe. Platform. I'm talking about you knowing that. Almost double the capacity to store gas in Poland, from 1 billion 800 million to 3 billion 200 million m3 - Platform. How much did the PiS increase during that time? Nul, zero. That's all you've got. That's all you've got. You're the storytellers, but when I ask questions And I've been trying to find out for a long time. What kind of contract was signed and if the pipe is reserved... Because I don't know if you know, but Baltic Pipe doesn't reach Norwegian deposits. He's included in the Norwegian transmission system. So I ask politely the question: what is this contract and what is the transport booked in this Norwegian pipe connected to Baltic Pipe? Nobody wants to answer me. Is that a secret? Minister, is this a secret? Why don't you explain it while you're on it? What's the reserve? What kind of contract do we have with the Norwegians, to which Norwegian deposits are connected the Norwegian pipe? Because as far as I know, it's about 3 billion m3. There may be more, but I'd like to know who the contracts are signed with, how much, to have very precise data. Mr. Marshal, if I may, I'd like the Minister to give you this kind of information in writing, because the High House would be happy to find out. Because if we have 10 billion m3... Yes, and about that: we use 20 billion m3 gas in Poland, if I remember, so why the billions that you just mentioned? It doesn't add up at all, but now... [[Why doesn't that make sense?]] Because we use 20 billion m3 a year. That's why it doesn't add up. [[But it's in the European Union...]] That's why it doesn't add up. So I'd like to know, in a situation where Baltic Pipe's transmission capacity is 10 billion m3, what's the contract with the Norwegian operator, not with the supplier, because it's secondary, but with the Norwegian pipeline operator. How many transmission reserves do we have in there? Because the transmission capacity of the pipes that we're plugged into is 29 billion m3, which is if we have 10 billion m3... the pipe is working at 100% right now. Does she supply gas to Belgium, the Netherlands, Germany in its entirety? There's no free capacity. So how are you gonna solve this problem? 'Cause here I hear all this banging: okay, cool... [[Timer signal]] I agree... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] Poles won't have a problem with gas because domestic mining is enough. Poles as citizens will not have a problem, but industry will.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u113	Thank you, Senator. Please, Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz, five minutes. Mr. Senator, I'm still addressing Senator Gawłowski. You've been kind enough to tell me to write down some... [[Please, it's a request.]] No, no. There's a formula, you can ask the Minister a question, but at the point... Well, I'm sorry, but I don't have the power to, as Marshal of the Senate, order the minister to answer your question. I'm sorry, it's just an explanation. [[The other marshals do it.]] I have a formula, Senator, which I can read. This formula is: a government representative has committed himself to reply in writing. After all, I cannot say that a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing to the senator in a situation where a government representative has not said such a thing. [[But the senator asked.]] I'm just trying to explain what's going on. Because many times we met with this kind of formula when we asked ministers questions. Then ministers, as they cannot or cannot answer, say: we will answer the question in writing. I was just talking about the formal side of that, that's why I didn't follow up on the senator's request. I'm trying to relate to everything you say, respectfully, and explain if I can't fulfill any request. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u114	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I will say with regard to Uncle Google that it is very easy to verify that it is possible to have an image of whether the major global or European companies are state-owned or private. I immediately point out that I do not want to privatize Orlen or PGNiG, because such suggestions may soon arise. I just want to tell you the truth and the facts, so you know them, not tell stories from the Senate Speaker. Ladies and gentlemen, the ownership structure of European oil companies: on the 18 largest oil companies in Europe, only 8 are controlled by the state, of which 2 companies are controlled in a country called Poland. Other companies, the largest companies are not controlled by the state. This is the case in countries such as the United Kingdom, France, Germany, Spain, the Netherlands, Sweden, the Czech Republic, Slovakia and Croatia. So it's worth reaching out to Uncle Google and finding out what the truth is and what the state has to do with the companies that operate in these countries. In these countries it works well and there is no need to refer to what was in the past, in the days of the commune, when everything was state. This private stuff sometimes works very well too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u115	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Mr. Marshal, yet...]] You're welcome, Senator Frost, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u116	Mr. Marshal! Mr. and Mrs. Senators! That's two things... Yes, Mr. Senator Gawłowski, you physically built a gasport, which I can confirm, because in 2007 Law and Justice lost the election, the Civic Platform in the coalition with PSL won and continued this project we started. And here is the glory, the glory for you, and no one will deny it. But in the event of the supply of gas, contracts, these negotiations, so to speak, the glory of greatness cannot be attributed. And you know it yourself. That's one thing. Second line. Mr. Senator, what was she like... most companies, however, are under state control when it comes to multi-energy companies. You gave an example of the Czech Republic. Yeah, Orlen controls the Czech refinery, so to speak, just like the Mayans control Lithuania. Mr. Senator, what's the problem? Exxon, of course, etc. These are private companies, but these are companies in which there is domestic American or British capital, mostly private, that happens differently. What's the alternative? [[What are you talking about?]] Privatize Lotus? Well, that's a russian queue, 'cause in all three entities, when it was buried, it was Russian capital, right? [[Did we sell it?]] If there was a failed attempt to privatize Orlen, the plan to privatize Orlen, of course indirectly would be Russian capital. And that's the difference that Americans don't let Russian capital into Exxon Mobile. And what happened when the Germans let the Russian capital into the gas tanks? It happened that they have empty gas tanks today, and ours are full. And that's what giving the Russians capital is all about. [[What are you talking about?]] Because that was the question of privatisation. You didn't say any American capital would come, buy Lotus or Orlen. There was only Russian capital. And those who succumbed to this mire, such as. The Germans, today with their hand in the pot and empty gas tanks. Of course, Senator Loven, you didn't sell, did you? [[You didn't want to, and you sold.]] Well, you didn't. So Alexander Grad, a prominent activist of the Civic Platform, then Minister of the Treasury... At that time, this process was already started. Maybe it didn't work out. Well, it didn't work out. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Well, you didn't do well with the Lotus privatisation. Luckily, you guys didn't do well with the Lotus privatisation, so to speak. If you didn't want to sell Lotus, you wouldn't be starting this privatisation process. [[You didn't want to, and you sold.]] You wouldn't be blocking a parliament resolution in 2011 or 2012, where party discipline was such that the social law was rejected at first reading. That's where PSL broke out, so it went to committee, but you finally blocked it in the Seym. [[This is some kind of virtual world.]] But, ladies and gentlemen, these were attempts to privatize. There's this famous Donald Tusk press conference where he said, "I don't mind Lotus privatizing." I don't mind if there's even Russian capital there. It's all recorded, ladies and gentlemen. [[But did we or didn't we?]] Well, you didn't sell 'cause it didn't work out. Well, it didn't work out. Lucky for you. God forbid things don't work out either. The effect is this. But you wanted to do it... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u117	But please, ladies and gentlemen, because this is really starting to... I'm trying very liberally to conduct my deliberations. I am aware that the senator, screaming one way at the room, provokes this room to speak, but the room behaves inappropriately to these provocations by responding. I appeal both to the senator not to provoke the opposition senators and to the opposition senators, so that you do not give up on this provocation. And I appeal to everyone to preserve the dignity of these deliberations. The senator has 30 seconds left because I interrupted his speech. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u118	Mr. Marshal, just one thing. I'm not provoking. But if there are a few senators here, so to speak, he's jamming his speech, I've decided to say... [[Timer signal]] ...maybe a little louder. But I won't anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, let me just say one thing. You might not like it. You might not like it. Since 2015, the Government of Law and Justice has not privatised any State Treasury company. And we won't privatize. The time for privatisation in Poland has passed, so to speak, a long time ago, and I hope that all companies that are today will continue to be state-owned, and in particular these strategic companies, such as PGNiG, energy... We've even done more: we've been buying back... [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...we were buying energy companies... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Mr. Senator, time.]] ...where the French were retreating. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u119	Thank you very much. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u120	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On the occasion of this law, which has such a slightly innocent title, I will remind you of this title: "It was the amendment of the Law on investment in the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws, that we actually started to discuss the whole energy and fuel sector and the challenges facing this sector, especially in a specific context, at the moment. I think that after February 24, it is obvious that in this area emotions are, for various reasons, big. Of course, there are plans to consolidate PKN Orlen, which is to be the only one, the biggest... such a chebo, a super-gigantic fuel and energy concern, which will safeguard our interests in the fuel sector, in the energy and fuel sector, and which will be a significant player in the European market. At least that's what the announcements are. Only, unfortunately, to achieve this goal, which, if there were no conditions which the European Commission had set for the merger of Orlen with Lotus, perhaps would be something worth discussing in peace... But in a situation where a significant part of the potential in this area is being thought of here, Lotus is actually forced to sell, and in this case we hear about two entities, one of which, Aramco, is to take over the refinery, and the stations are to take over the Hungarian concern MOL, we are dealing with an extremely controversial For this simple reason, Mr Piotr Wozniak, former Minister of Economy, former President of PGNiG, said that we are dealing with a concern of MOL, in which there are serious Russian influences, and we are dealing with an entity of Aramco, which is a global giant. For Aramco, the acquisition of this refinery may mean that in some time, after carrying out some restructuring activities in this area, Lotus, this refinery, the most modern in Poland, and one of the most modern in Europe, able to process any oil, and from the eastern directions, and from the Persian Gulf, and from other directions, will be sold. And now the rhetorical question: who, after this merger, will first of all seek to take over this refinery? Will this future sales take place only on the basis of market conditions or others? This I leave to the High House to reflect on. In my deep conviction, the nervous reactions about this discussion at all, this merger from the government camp, best show that something is up. If the matter were clear, of course, then it would be so that some people have that opinion, others have a different opinion, there may be a difference of opinion, my God. As it was said in the Promised Land: how they join, how they divide, how they divide, how they slow down, how they accept, how they accept for work, they slow down. Well, some regulations work. However, the nervousness of this reaction and the movement between the main opposition party and the government camp to those who, in quotes, are more pro-Russian, are a little bit... I don't want to tell you what it is anymore, but I'll say it's a test. cover activities related to this merger which is designed. I'm afraid this merger can happen quite quickly. I didn't happen to ask Minister Małecki how it was spread over time. According to the projections that result from the logic of events, if the relevant documents are submitted and the European Commission does not raise any objections, it will be possible to launch this whole procedure. Unfortunately, it can happen quite quickly and you need to be aware of it. I'm talking about the so-called. The merger of Orlen with Lotus. The subsequent consequences of this merger will also affect other activities in this area. From this point of view, I would say that I think it is very bad that this debate has a very strong emotional charge. She is, of course, in the shadow of war in Ukraine and at the moment rational arguments, which were presented by Minister Piotr Wozniak, who, who, who, who, who, whom, etc., wanted to cooperate with or to whom in the past to sell something. It's really on top of that. I regret and believe that at this point this is a wrong policy as regards the concept of the future of the fuel and energy sector in Poland. I think, unfortunately, the consequences of this... If this merger takes place, it will be virtually impossible to reverse the effects of this merger. Now it's so nervous, in my opinion, and propaganda and political, and the statutory beating of this process as soon as possible, and this law is one of the elements of this strategy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u121	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! For more than seven years I have been in the government of Donald Tusk, PO-PSL, and until today I still face various accusations that have nothing to do with reality. This most important charge, which often appears, is that the Platform tried to privatize the Forests. She didn't privatize. That she was trying to privatize Lotus She didn't privatize. That she tried to privatize many more, many other elements of national wealth, etc., etc. This has nothing to do with the truth, and I want to make it clear. This was not because we could not do it, but because we thought that certain elements of heritage, most important from an economic point of view, should remain. I will also add that in our activities, we have tried to bring about such a situation that those who own private property, private capital, are respected. Because I don't share an opinion where... well, not a compliment, because it's not a compliment that PiS privatized anything. Well, I would like to say clearly that the statement that we have not privatized anything, but nationalized it causes me to have associations, I stress: the association that we are dealing with the Bolshevik formation. They didn't privatize anything either, they nationalized it, too. I said I would exaggerate, but these associations are the result of my very important and important belief: respect for private capital and private property. We were successful in 1989 and then became a member of the European Union, a world where private property is valued, respected, protected and private capital is appreciated. I am aware that there are areas in which a state monopoly should be maintained for our security, but I absolutely cannot end this debate with such a statement that the state is better than the private one. Sometimes, yes, but you can't do that... [[Applause]] Sometimes, yeah. The second point, very important and important. I believe that we are in force under the conditions of the present civilization, the continuity of the state and the responsibility for the state. Therefore, it is necessary to honor those who had the idea, those who created the project, those who carried out the project and those who opened the project. And it is very important that in this matter we do not shift responsibility for some gap, for some unfinished element, because the most difficult investments, the most important investments last, in short, years, not months. And that is why I call very strongly again: the continuity of the state, respect for private capital, private property and memory, that nationalization is rarely a good thing, although sometimes it is, and that privatisation is usually a good thing, and from time to time No, no, no, no, Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the senators Alexander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Artur Dunin, Jolanta Hibner, Janusz Pęcherz, Władysław Komarnicki, Benjamin Godyla and Janusz Gromek made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. There were no legislative proposals. The discussion is closed. Would a representative of the applicants or a representative of the government still like to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u124	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Once again, I will stress that the consolidation of the gas and fuel sector, the consolidation of Polish gas and gas companies is an improvement of the energy security of our country. In the debate there were many hurtful and false words concerning the bill, but also the whole process. Ladies and gentlemen, to argue that the consolidation of energy assets is an act of some past system... Let me put it this way: this is the way the Norwegian Equinor went, this is the way the French Total, the Italian Eni and the Spanish Repsol went. Because this is the trend in world markets that companies in the energy sectors are consolidating. Why? To have a value chain from exploration, through extraction, through refineries, petrochemicals, energy, wholesale, detail. Because then they are more resistant to economic fluctuations, then they can make more money for investments. And then they can benefit more, make better money. It is in the interest of our competitors from other countries that several entities belonging to the same owner should compete on the Polish market with the Treasury. Those who want to do business on the Polish market, with non-Polish capital, will keep their fingers crossed so that the fuel and energy market is divided in Poland. We believe that the consolidation of Orlen, Lotus, PGNiG, we remember about Energa, earlier, and the construction of a strong multi-energy group is an added value for the energy security of Poland and for the competitiveness of our economy. A simple example: we sit down to talk to the supplier of oil or gas. Would it be better if three smaller companies were sitting or one big ones? We sit down to talk to suppliers of some products, services, contractors. Would it be better if a few smaller companies sat down or one big ones? And this is a change that improves the energy security of Poland. As for the gas terminal, a lot of words came out here. I'm not gonna talk about everything anymore, but I'm gonna say, "Sleep." President Lech Kaczyński initiated the construction of the terminal after another Putin gas blackmail in 2006. The terminal was to be finished in 2011. Well, you weren't able to finish it by 2011. There was a talk about 2012, and it didn't work either. I remember asking about 10 years ago at a committee meeting in the Sejm and from a representative of the government of Mr Donald Tusk I heard that there is no mercy, until 30 June 2014 the terminal will be open. So? The term of office is over. Well, in the election campaign it was a famous, somewhat humorous opening of a closed terminal. The terminal was operational in December 2015 and was opened by Prime Minister Beata Szydło. And there's cross-border connections. Every connection to which gas comes to Poland is good, but let's measure some sizes. Forests 1 billion m3, Cieszyn 6 billion m3, donated several days ago the connection between Poland and Lithuania 2 billion m3. I stress that it will not be the Russian gas from Lithuania, it will be the gas from the Klaipeda terminal. The Polish-Slovakia connection is planned for the third quarter of this year We are waiting for Slovak work because our work has already finished That's 5,7 billion m3. And there's the Baltic Pipe pipeline. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Law and Justice has begun building the Baltic Pipe pipeline. I don't want to go back to history anymore, but that was a lot of neglect, too. Well, we remember the launch of the Polish-Norwegian project by the Leszek Miller government. The Baltic Pipe pipeline has been launched and will be terminated by the Government of Law and Justice. Here you have given special credit to Minister Piotr Naimski. Could we build the Baltic Pipe pipeline if the gas contract with Gazprom were concluded, as you planned, by 2037? No. Why? Because there would be no space for extra gas on the Polish market. It was supposed to be 10 billion m3 gas from Russia in the take-or-pay formula. What does that mean? That means even if we didn't take that gas from Putin, we'd still be in 2037. Poland would have to pay for it. That's the deal that the Platform and PSL government wanted to make. That's what you talked about in Moscow. Luckily, as Senator Frost said, the European Commission had tossed its foot. But the first advocate of Polish energy security was President Lech Kaczyński, who opposed this contract. We wouldn't have a chance at the Baltic Pipe pipeline. Let's take today's level of gas consumption, i.e. approx. 20 billion m3. We would have had 9 billion m3 - it could be lowered a bit, it was not exactly a precise contract from Russia until 2037. And let's add 5 billion from Świnoujście is already 14 billion and 4 billion from domestic mining. And where's the gas space from Norway? We'd have to pay for that Russian gas for 15 years anyway. This is, ladies and gentlemen, a case that will always be on the part of those involved in this wicked operation of cooperation with Vladimir Putin. Luckily, that didn't happen. And the second case, which is the memo recently released by Prime Minister Jack Sasin. Well, there was a plan to sell Lotus to the Russians, too. What Poland would look like today and what our safety would be like Not only energy, but also military, if the refinery in Gdansk had to convert Russian oil? If, on the one hand, we had to take gas from Putin for 15 more years, and on the other hand, the fuel window to the world of Gdansk would be crowded with Russian oil, could we help Ukraine without repercussions from Russia? After all, these actions which you carried out as a government of Platform and PSL were nothing more than pushing Poland into the tick of Vladimir Putin. And that's what you need to be reminded of. I didn't say this in my first speech, I was hoping we could discuss the law, the safety, the energy security of our homeland, but that's what I have to address. Someone who says the harmful merger of Orlen with Lotus... I'll get back to it. It is in Poland's interest that one strong entity sits down for talks with oil suppliers, which will have a better negotiating position. Orlen led by President Daniel Obajtka, after joining Lotus, after joining the PGNiG, will enter the oil companies' Extraclasse in Europe, will be at the level of the Spanish Repsola, because other countries have already undergone such consolidation. And as for Lotus, I really don't want to comment anymore because they were... There's no way to sell Lotus today. Today Lotus is connected with Orlen to make it a larger company, so that Poland is more secure in terms of energy and that our economy is more competitive. Senator Zdrojewski said something about the Bolsheviks. Mr. Senator, we may be different, we may really be different, I can critically judge different actions, but in life I wouldn't allow myself to... I wouldn't have expected you to have such an epithet and such a vile attack. I do not want to remind you of who you were on the letters to the European Parliament, who reached out. But I'm already on it. I'm almost done. [[Voice from the room: You know...]] Ladies and gentlemen, I know, thank God... But for some, it's not a pleasant reminder. Once again, I confirm that the government welcomes this parliamentary bill. I ask the senators to accept him. And once again, I would like to stress that the purpose of these actions is the energy security of our homeland. Thanks to the effective diversification of gas supplies to Poland, we can talk about the fact that we are immune to Putin's blackmail. And the crucial moment here will be the launch of the Baltic Pipe pipeline, and on the way we are also building a strong multi-energy concern. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u125	Thank you very much, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Copernican Academy Act. The text of the Act is contained in print No 702, and the report of the Commission In print No 702 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u126	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am pleased to present to you the report of the Committee on Science, Education and Sport on the Copernican Academy Act. The Commission recommends that the High Senate reject this law without amendment. Six senators voted in favour, four against, no one abstained. [[As I understand it, the senator is gracious to limit his report...]] Yes. This should be the function of who reports the work of the committee every time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u127	I'll allow it, Mr. Senator... It seems to me that it is also based on the justification of such a position rather than another position, or on the presentation of debate and arguments. [[At the request of your marshal, I'd be happy to...]] And as a senator, not just as a marshal, I'd like to know what caused this, not another committee position. And that, I believe, is the institution of the report, i.e. so that the senators, who were not at a committee meeting, can find out what they will be voting on. [[Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I will immediately say that I am always trying to be the Senator rapporteur limiting all elements, also with regard to justification, because I am also very often a witness to justifications that exceed both...]] Mr. Senator, I'm sorry, but given that in terms of political manners, as well as all the others about your senator, I have no doubt, in directing my appeal to you, I was absolutely convinced that you would present this to us in a reliable manner and not come out... [[Thank you very much.]] ...from the role of rapporteur.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u128	Thank you very much. At the committee meeting, we had the pleasure of listening to Professor Jerzy Marian Langer, who first of all presented the opinions of the environment. He himself represented the Warsaw Scientific Society, but he was also a representative of other groups who sent to the Senate. We also have a variety of opinions on this project. In general, the allegations consisted of 4 elements and I am convinced that they have decided that these 6 people recommend rejecting the bill. The first element is the lack of faith, first of all the lack of faith in the fact that this project will actually improve the situation as regards the world of science and the world of research. The second plea raised was that there was no consultation with the scientific community at the stage of the preparation of the project. The third is due to a lack of faith in the fact that these funds, which have been written down in the Act and, above all, in the explanatory memorandum, will be sufficient to implement this project. And the last most common opinion I'll expand it in my speech. It is a belief that it is an initiative that duplicates functions and tasks carried out by existing other institutions, including the Polish Academy of Sciences. It seems that, first of all, the lack of faith in the fact that this project will indeed be any element of progress as regards the situation of Polish science, higher education, was the main reason for recommending the rejection of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u129	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Eve Matecka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator, please tell us whether during the committee's deliberations it was discussed what is the particular reason for establishing the Copernican Academy, in particular in view of the circumstances of great activity, the functioning of existing research institutes and scientific institutions engaged in the dissemination of science.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u131	I will remind you that the applicant is the president and the President's law firm represented by the team, emphasized 2 elements. Firstly, the fact that we generally do not have impressive results in terms of R &amp; D and our position, including in Europe, in terms of funding, is insufficient to meet the current challenges of civilization. In this connection, the President's initiative is emerging to strengthen the world of science, and especially the activities of those institutions which, as I said earlier, are not always and not entirely leading us to this position in Europe that we should occupy. The second element was mainly related to the placement of several other initiatives, prizes, grants, congress in Toruń, which was planned and is in this bill for next year. Thus, such justifications were the most raised as regards the justification of the project itself.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u132	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, once again, you ask Senator Mateck. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u133	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, I would therefore like to ask whether, during the meeting of this committee, there was talk about the costs of the Copernican Academy and the costs of all the tasks to be carried out by this academy, including congresses and other tasks which are enshrined in this Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u134	Yeah, but we didn't spend much time on it. Certain elements of the answer are contained in the explanatory memorandum. As far as the Copernicus Academy is concerned, the first annual costs are estimated at 25 million. The Copernican prizes are $150,000, converted into half a million, as I recall. Congress planned for next year is 1 million. What was important to us, and what appeared in the opinion, is that these measures are not additional measures, but are measures set aside in the existing budget planned for education and science.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u135	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u136	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you about the resources, too, but you've already answered. I would also like to ask if at the committee meeting in this discussion and in this denial of the establishment of the Copernican Academy... You said these measures weren't enough. Were the amounts given which would be sufficient for these activities?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u137	In one of the opinions, there was a much higher amount than a billion and this was a reference to the costs of running a university. Indeed, when we are talking about a specific structure, about specific tasks, these measures that have been designed are more than modest. According to the opinion, they are absolutely insufficient to carry out these tasks, which are included in the law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u138	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, once again, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u139	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, there's something else I'd like to ask you. The role of Ambassador of the Copernican Academy is introduced here. Was that mentioned at the committee meeting? What duties, what tasks would such ambassador have?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u140	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u141	As far as this function is concerned, there was no contradiction here, i.e. opinions on the appointment of ambassadors of such institutions or institutions are generally not denied. The more ambassadors of our affairs, science, research and development, the better, therefore no one expressed a negative opinion of this function.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u142	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Wind's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u143	Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. In the first sentence of his report, the senator seems to have made a certain slip, which concerns matters of extreme importance, because they are legal. Well, you've used the phrase that the committee is asking for this bill to be rejected without amendment. There's no formula.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u144	Yeah, yeah, I know that. Thank you so much for the correction. We're filing for the rejection of this bill. There was a proposed amendment, but we did not vote on it, so this amendment does not go to the Senate meeting. It's kind of a thought shortcut. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u145	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u146	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I would like to know how this initiative, the act on the Copernican Academy for the status, functioning and future of the Polish Academy of Sciences is going to work. That's the first question. Another question. Did such subjects as the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the General Council of Science and Higher Education or the Polish Academy of Sciences mentioned by me express their views on this law? And if so, what are these opinions, what positions do they present?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u147	I'm gonna start with that second question. Well, all those institutions that were mentioned by your senator, as well as others, have expressed their opinions. These opinions were quite extensive, all negative. As for the first question, I'll say yes. There was a history of this project, this story isn't long, because it's slightly over the year. At the very beginning a project appeared, the idea of the National Copernican Programme and it was then interpreted as an alternative to the Polish Academy of Sciences or replacing the Polish Academy of Sciences in a certain part or function. As you know, this idea died a natural death last year. He appeared in a slightly different version first in New Łada, and then he was transferred to the Polish Łódź and after a rather dramatic or harsh discussion he was also abandoned. This project, which has returned, is no longer alternative to the Lord or competitive towards the Lord. It is parallel to the Polish Academy of Sciences, but it is not identical to the Polish Academy of Sciences, therefore we are dealing with the situation that another institution was proposed, which in some part would have competence or tasks similar to the Polish Academy of Sciences, which was also the subject of criticism. I would also add that what most often appeared in the discussions or in these opinions is such a belief that it is necessary to seek to strengthen existing institutions rather than to share or establish new institutions that will develop or not develop, but act at the expense of the institutions present. In general, it can be said that at this stage the institution was abandoned, which would be alternative to the PAS or competitive to the PAS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u148	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u149	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. Is there any specific requirements in this law regarding persons who are to enter this structure, e.g. That they have to be independent scientists? Do some of them have to meet certain criteria, or do they not have any criteria for being able to enter this structure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u150	There are, of course, 2 stages or 2 levels of determination of these criteria. The first is formal and the second is adjective, which means that these people must be, in short, undisputed authorities. There is a record of expectations that they will meet certain requirements. So these requirements are. [[Thank you...]] [[But are there such formal requirements? For example, that it has to be a self-employed scientist or that it has to have a degree of doctor-habilitated?]] It should be remembered that there are people in this institution who act as so-called. Dorms, as well as people who perform functions, I would say administrative. Of course, the first expectations are very simple, i.e. that they are persons with titles of independent academics.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u151	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u152	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, I can fully understand that someone who is outside of science has questioned this bill. But you're involved in science, even for a function in the past. If you, as a committee, propose to reject this law, that means you do not want to improve the existing state. The question, then, is whether this state exists, according to your senator, at least satisfactory. Is it that it will allow us to develop our science? And second question, related to this. I understand that this is more about promoting Polish science in selected aspects, precisely through these grants, this congress, etc., outside. [[Timer signal]] Does the current institutions perform this function well?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u153	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u154	I don't know if I can fit in in time, because that's the kind of question that involves building an extensive message. I'll start with one element. The position of our science in Europe is undoubtedly not satisfactory, and the position of our institutions, despite its undoubted achievements, is unsatisfying for us too. What is most important, most important in this assessment, are elements that show exactly where we are and what is faulty, what works wrong. And, for example, in terms of R &amp; D expenditure, so-called expenditure and development, it is in the European Union that we are at the end of the twentieth century. The effort rates are very low and I must say that this must be one of the sources of the lack of the results that the economy expects and the society. The second element is the remuneration of researchers. Here is the situation of the inverted cone, i.e. there is a very large group of independent workers today and very reluctantly joining the profession of young scientist young generation who at the start, for the first 5, 10 years, very difficult, because this is the time starting a family etc., gets extremely low wages. I will say that in recent times this has unfortunately worsened, because, if only recently, in 2011, as I remember, this ratio compared to the basic salary was 3.08, as it is now 2,13 , according to statistical data. So we have a very poor system of incentives and acquisition of young, capable people for scientific tasks, research tasks. Another, third piece. And here I will use the opinion of Professor Langer, who said at the committee's meeting that we are currently missing 100,000 people working in the field of research and science. I'll say it again: 100,000. They don't have to be located in universities, that's not the most important They should, so to speak, accompany research, the development of various enterprises. And that's the third element. Unfortunately, the establishment of this institution does not solve any of these three issues. I could go on and talk about a few more. Generally speaking, a specific new institution is being created that does not give any chance to change anything in this matter. I'll also tell the congress because you mentioned the congress. No one's against Congress. It seems to me that none of the opinions was negative as regards this initiative, I would say, regardless of this law. But everyone was paying attention to one thing. It is not possible to do such a congress within 1 year without an institution to organize this congress. So it can be said that we are all convinced that the meeting of scientists, researchers, professors, independent academics in specific thematic groups is a good initiative, but in order for it to have value, it takes a time of 2, 3 years. As the organizer of the Polish Culture Congress, I will say that I prepared it for over 2 years in cooperation with the environment, with various institutions, including external ones. Preparation of a congress, which is to be ambitious and to have an effect, is a minimum of 2 years, if not more.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u155	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Ewa Matecka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr Senator, much has been said at the committee meeting as well as now about relatively low expenditure on research in Poland, which in turn is very low for Poland in this respect compared to other European countries. Is the fact that this new institute, the new academy, is to be financed from already budgeted state resources, not weakening the quality of the research already carried out and which could be additionally supported by these funds? Isn't that the poverty of research and other scientific institutes already under way? How would the Copernican Academy change the organisation of science in Poland? Doesn't that further worsen the state of science in Poland? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u157	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u158	Thank you very much. In one opinion, there was a belief, a view, that the use of funds at the disposal of existing institutions would be at the expense of them, i.e. not strengthening them, but weakening them. That this is part of the sharing of the scientific community, this has also appeared in one opinion. There was also a belief that duplication of institutions was not in line with the global trend. Very drastic examples have been given, and I will not quote them. Generally speaking, the existence of more than one central scientific academy in the country is rare, and if it appears, it is rather in those countries which have problems with science, problems with the position of science, and not in those which should be a model for us.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u159	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, was there a talk at the committee meeting about the Nicolaus Copernicus Main School, whose creation is an important element of this law, about its structure? How is this university designed in relation to the existing law on higher education, which defines a certain degree of autonomy of universities, a certain way of functioning of academic education in Poland? Was there any broader discussion on this subject, or was this topic raised? There are doubts that this designed school of Nicolaus Copernicus would somehow be directly related to government administration, but deprived of those elements of autonomy, which has higher education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u161	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u162	No, we weren't discussing the subject or the comparison of the statute or the appearance of duplicated, presumably, tasks. However, in one opinion there was a belief that there are already certain institutions that fulfil the tasks included in this law, and it was this university that was mentioned as an example.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u163	Thank you very much, Senator. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill's been... [[Me too.]] [[Voice from the room: Senator Szejnfeld.]] Oh, excuse me, Senator Szejnfeld. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, and from these committee discussions, and from these questions, there is a big unknown, big question mark, for example, about the purpose. I'm already overlooking the sense of this academy. Could you at least try to show us what the purpose is? E.g. We know that the academy is supposed to promote science, grant grants and scholarships, give ambassador titles to the academy, work with other universities. Well, it seems to me that the current institutions are not only able to act, but they are working in this area. It's not enough that college students in this academy are basically going to study in existing entities, universities... [[Timer signal]] ...using the same existing scientific base... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...teaching, professoring. What's the change? So what is the point and purpose of this law?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u165	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u166	That is why in all opinions In all opinions, if I'm not mistaken. In most cases, there was such a belief that we were dealing with duplication. That's exactly where the concept was most common. However, I will not replace the representatives of the President's Chancellery, who have come here in a strong composition, and will in a moment justify this bill. All I'm going to say is that we didn't deny the president's intention to do anything to help, we just denied the idea, the idea in this shape and this form.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u167	Thank you very much, Senator. Please, Senator Czerwinski has a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u168	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, the longer you answer, the more doubts you raise in me. Because yes: the goal is good, well, it's somewhere there; the Ambassador of Copernican Academy is good; Copernican Awards I think it's good; Nicolaus Copernicus High School Well, so labilly, I would say, twofold, ambivalently; congress It's good in general, just not at that time. Well, then you could have written a different date. You didn't correct this law at least in those areas you said you were positive about, but you were right in front of it. Of course you can do it this way, only that the effect will be that we will never make any progress, because somewhere some comma will be in the wrong place, and bam to the basket. I was a little worried about that. 'Cause as I say, if you put it in a way, I'd say coherent is... [[Timer signal]] ...why this bill is wrong, then yes, I might even agree. But so far, it looks like the elements are good, but in general the bill of evil.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u169	Time, Mr. Senator. I'm sorry, but... [[I'm done.]] Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u170	The answer to this question is simple: all those goals that are good can be achieved through institutions that exist, while building a separate institution to achieve these objectives is a mistake. [[Applause]] [[Voices from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u171	Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the president. The Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Paprock, was authorised to present the President's position during parliamentary work. Would the President's representative like to take the floor on the bill under consideration and present the position of the President? [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Yes.]] Yes? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u172	Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! In two words, I would like to sum up the purpose of the President's initiative, which has decided on the President's decision to present to Parliament a draft law on the Copernican Academy. The primary goal of the Copernican Academy, which is completely different from those carried out today by working scientific units, is a very serious emphasis on international cooperation of Polish scientists and strengthening this cooperation in areas that are associated with... in which Mikołaj Kopernik acted. This is a question related to today's development and the future of Polish science. The second element, also very important, is the commemoration of Nicolaus Copernicus in connection with the five hundred and fifty anniversaries of his birth next year. One of the topics of the conversation was the organization of the congress. It is not by chance that the President proposes that the Congress be held in Toruń on 19 February. The main task of the Copernican Academy included in the act will be the implementation of the National Copernican Programme. A few words have already been said here. First of all, it is a question of funding research in 2 formulas: as part of Copenhagen scholarships, it is an institution addressed to young scientists, and as part of grants by Nicolaus Copernicus This is already a proposal addressed to scientists with recognised scientific achievements and programmes that are relevant to science. There is also the question of supporting the Nicolaus Copernicus Main School, awarding Copernicus Awards in the amount of PLN 500,000, the appointment of ambassadors of the Copernicus Academy, organizing cyclically every 5 years of the World Copernicus Congress. Additional formulas are, of course, symposia, conferences and publishing activities. With regard to the issue that has already been raised in the discussion, and thanking the rapporteur for his position, I will say that actually around this project... It seems that the opinions that are being formulated are due to the fact that there has been a discussion on such an institution for some time. The allegations that are being made have nothing to do with the President's proposal or have little to do with it. There are completely different solutions proposed there. Mr. Senator has appealed to the amount. That's a pretty symbolic $150,000. These are solutions from a completely different project. This project doesn't have that at all. Same opinion as your senator's. I have the impression, and in fact, that they concern solutions which have nothing to do with the initiative of the head of state. Thank you for saying that the establishment of the Copernican Academy is a new initiative and introduced alongside existing institutions. The allegations relating to any impact on existing scientific units have no basis in the Act. The Act sets out financing methods, does not apply in any way to existing universities or scientific institutes. The President's proposal is to create a new scientific institution aimed at conducting very advanced international cooperation in the areas referred to by the law, from mathematics and astronomy to economics, medicine, law to theology. There have been allegations in the Senator's statement. I allow myself to draw the attention of the High Senate to the fact that they were mostly based on lack of faith, lack of conviction. If we reach out to the proposed solutions, to the provisions of the bill, we will see that the evaluation of the project must be completely different. With all this in mind, I kindly ask the High Senate to support this initiative and to pass a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u173	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute's query to the President's representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome. Senator Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u174	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I want to ask you about the assessment of scientific policy over the last six years. This is a delicate sphere where every new idea has to come from some serious assessment. I would like to ask what is the assessment of the president and your six years in terms of the presence of Polish science in international circulation. Is this a time lost, or is this a time of little progress? Do you think that if your project had appeared five years ago, it would have been a major breakthrough? I'm asking because you didn't report it, and with all the shortcomings of Minister Gowin's policy, she was open to consultation, everyone could make their recommendations. What is the balance of these six years when you make such a qualitative change?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u175	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u176	Mr. Senator! High Senate! As I mentioned in my speech, it is a new institution that gives new and additional tools. In no way does this law or the intention of the President question the scientific achievements of Polish scientists, nor does it question the policy around it, but they provide additional tools. She's tied up, too. - which follows directly from the Act, from the title itself and from the justification With a historic moment, the anniversary of the birth of Nicolaus Copernicus. This is an additional form. The allegation that something was not done some years ago... It is today's proposal that Polish scientists be able to win a prize of half a million zlotys so that ambassadors of the Academy can obtain for the promotion of Polish science, Polish culture of half a million zlotys, so that young scientists can get additional... The Senator rapporteur wanted to talk about the salary of young scientists. After all, this law gives additional resources, additional possibilities of obtaining grants for excellent innovative ideas, which Polish scientists have. This is for a lot of scientists additional... Of course, in those areas which this bill will define. And neither at the committee's meeting nor today has there been any mention that there is of course a scope of matter here, but these are additional tools to ensure that Polish science and Polish scientists, young but also very experienced, support and give them additional resources to carry out their activities, which I stress once again, with the assumption of very significant international cooperation, because as far as the bodies of the academy are concerned, both the assembly and the chambers of the academy, the assumption is that half of the composition will be Polish scientists and half will be scientists from other countries.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u177	Thank you very much, Minister. Please take the floor of Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u178	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, the Copernican Academy Act is a very valuable initiative and I thank President Andrzej Duda on your hands. Thank you very much. I'm sure I'll support her. I have a few questions that are typically technical when it comes to the project. Firstly, it would be worth recalling, in terms of measures, how many of them will be specifically aimed at the functioning of the academy, how much for Copenhagen scholarships, how much for the grants of Nicolaus Copernicus. And the second question is typically technical: what circumstances will determine the award, and what are the expiry of the academy membership?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u179	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u180	Thank you very much, Senator, for this voice of support, also for your questions. The question of measures that are anticipated... here in the discussion sometimes there were allegations that it was not enough resources, and there were also voices that it was too much resources. I would like to remind you that the Academy will be financed by the state budget, so it will also be up to the High Senate in future budget laws to define this budget. A very important indication in the draft, actually already in the Act, is the provisions imposing an obligation on the President of the Council of Ministers to pay the academy for the necessary property. The second issue is the funding from the state budget. And the rates of prizes and support, the ones that come directly from the bill, are Like I said, The Copernican Prize. We do not have such a prize in Polish science, this is the first prize as significant as I said, this is the amount of half a million zlotys. It will in principle be awarded in accordance with the Act 1 once a year, in turn, in accordance with the sequence provided for in each of the fields. The bill proposed by the President allows such awards to be awarded twice a year in some exceptional circumstances. And the second amount is just the amount for the ambassadors of the academy. This is a comparable amount for their activities. This is already an activity aimed at abroad, i.e. promoting Polish science and culture there. And the other issues have been largely identified... The Act assumes that they will be specified in the file that will issue the academy itself. That's gonna be the rule book. They will, of course, be announced. There is a whole procedure for announcing competitions, joining them and announcing results. Sorry, there was another question I started writing down. Excuse me... [[I also asked what circumstances would determine the award and what the termination of the academy membership would be.]] Membership, yes. Thank you very much. I think this thread has already appeared in Senator Jackowski's question. I would like to stress very clearly that members of the academy will be able to be members of people who have a good reputation, stand out with a particularly outstanding scientific achievement and authority in the scientific community. In addition, in the case of Polish citizens it is the title of professor or scientific degree, and in the case of foreigners An equivalent degree in science. And an additional requirement for Polish citizens who may be members of the academy is the issue of cooperation with security authorities. And the issue of termination of membership is also regulated by law. It's in the article. 8. On the one hand, this scope is subject to such objective factors, i.e. the age of eighty years, and on the other hand there are issues related of course to non-punishment, to the loss of the ability to act as a member of the academy as a result of a medical certificate, with resignation Here, of course, is freedom. With death. [[Voice from the room: Is anyone else...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u181	Yeah, yeah. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u182	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I just want to ask you one more question. Foreigners will also be able to sit at the Copernican Academy. Do we have a limit on how many aliens can there be?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u183	The idea of the President's proposal is that the division, in terms of membership both in the whole academy and in the individual chambers, will be no more than 50% ...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u184	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u185	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! It wasn't until after your introduction that I understood the meaning of this law. I'm sorry, because I had a different impression after the Senator rapporteur presented it. I'd ask you to sort of ease those fears that this is some kind of institution that's supposed to compete with someone, take something away from someone. First of all, it has, as I understand it, to use Okay, let's get this straight. A round anniversary to promote Polish science outside. That's what I think is added value. This will take nothing from the present Polish science. I would ask you to explain this in detail.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u187	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Senate! Exactly so, I mean, the project does not contain any regulation that would authorize the claim that it is directed against any existing scientific institute. This is a new unit, created, as I mentioned earlier, when I was talking about the issue of equipment for property... So we're creating a new unit, along with regulations on how to equip it with property and how to create staff. And this is an additional unit aimed at international cooperation in those areas that I mentioned. I would also like to say that, of course, there is also an opportunity. And it should come to that. Far-reaching cooperation between the academy and existing universities and scientific institutes. I would just like to emphasise one thing: unlike the existing rules, in particular those relating to the issue of higher education organisation, the President's proposal is a competitive procedure, i.e. objective.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u188	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Kołacz-Leszczyńska to ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! I'll repeat the question I asked you at the Senate committee meeting, which I didn't get an answer to. It concerns the plea of lack of consultation and information as to whether there is even one opinion among the many critical ones which show how unnecessary, how devastating this idea of the President is. They show it straight and they talk about it loudly and loudly. Is there even one opinion that you have or that you received after consultation, which would be a positive opinion supporting you in this idea of establishing the Copernicus Academy?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u190	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u191	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I'm sorry I didn't answer that question right away yesterday, but it was also a little bit of a time frame for yesterday's sitting. The President's office or the President's office, when he directs a legislative initiative to Parliament, has no formal obligation to consult and has not been consulted in such a formal sense. Referring to earlier statements, I would like to point out that these opinions which are presented or presented Because they were also sent to the President's Office, then presented in the Sejm and today they were also sent to the High Senate. In a very small part or at all, they do not refer directly to the text of the project, but they refer to an idea that has been in operation for some time. As the senator said earlier, there is a lack of faith here, a concern arising from some subjective belief, but at no time were there any provisions to prove that such intentions of the President, presenting his project, had been indicated. And the assessment of the project as devastating for Polish science... crushing by giving half a million prizes to Polish scientists? That it gives additional scholarships to Polish young scientists or experienced scientists? That it creates a framework for the congress, which is to celebrate Polish science and be an organizational framework for talking not only about the activities of Nicolaus Copernicus, but also about what is happening today in Polish science? Well, it seems that this is a very far-reaching assessment and this project does not deserve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u192	Thank you very much. Please, the senator wanted to ask you one more question...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u193	One very short question. You're talking about the extra money you want for scholarships, for prizes. Is it really an additional money pool, or will this money be drawn now from the money pool that is earmarked for universities? Please tell me clearly and precisely: is this really extra money? You use this adjective all the time, says: extra scholarships, additional prizes... Straight and clear: will it be extra money, or will it simply be drawn from this pot that is already in operation?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u194	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u195	These are completely new institutions proposed in the Polish legal order and proposing these solutions, i.e. grants or prizes, in no place does the President's proposal remove other entities, does not make any changes in the financing formulas of other scientific institutions, and today, according to the regulations, any changes in this area would require a legal solution. There is no such solution in the provisions of this law. The way in which the academy is financed has been proposed in the state budget financing formula, and these amounts will be created in an accurate manner by future solutions to the budget laws. As I said, there will also be a very important part of the work of the High Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u196	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Ewa Matecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u197	Polish scientists, people of science, listen to us now. Precision and reliability are important here. There is no additional funding for Polish science. There's just extra work to do. And this is very important information for Polish scientists. Thank you very much. Will you confirm or deny it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u198	But I didn't say anything, Senator. [[Thank you...]] I said that the funding comes from the budget bill, and that's the issue of introducing... There's gonna be an extra chapter on the Copernican Academy, so this thesis... Neither am I. I haven't said it, nor can I confirm it in any way.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u199	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u200	Ma'am, I take this bill as an alternative path to scientific promotion. And I have a question, perhaps, of malice. Is the name of the Rector known, the person who will be the Rector, and the list of people that this Rector will bestow a scientific title? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u201	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u202	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have to agree that this is actually a matter of some malice, because a member of the academy can become a professor or a academic, so we're talking about people... And the additional criterion is to stand out for a particularly outstanding scientific achievement and authority in the scientific community, so it's hard to say that it's any trampoline for anyone, since we have scientists here who are so high in requirements. There is no such requirement in any other law. It is the President, when he proposes to Parliament to create an academy, that the academy should include people with such exceptional scientific achievements. And then they're supposed to decide. Of course, in the forms provided for in the Act How the academy will work, how it will have its statutes. And there are of course written procedures for selecting people who will be created by the academy. [[Thank you...]] And to answer the question, of course, that's the name I can't give because it's not there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u203	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: I think you're still...]] Sorry, Senator Ujazdowski. I'm so sorry. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u204	Polish science has high-level scientists, but not international ones, also according to the evaluation criteria that were established after 2015. I would like to ask if you can mention the name of someone who is very highly placed in international science, who specifically recommended this solution, officially, specifically recommended this solution? Because science policy is made in the form of dialogue. Can you name a Polish scientist who has gained a high international position and recommended this solution?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u205	Thank you very much, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u206	Do I understand correctly that the senator is asking me whether this bill has been consulted abroad? [[No, no. I do not mean the procedure, I mean the answer to the question whether you can name a Polish scientist from any industry of humanities, technical sciences, biological sciences, who recommended this kind of solution.]] This type of consultation was not carried out at the firm because it is not customary to hold talks outside the country's borders about the law being established in the country. And the President's Office doesn't do that kind of work for any project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u207	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions, I understand. Well, thank you, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Margaret Paprock: Thank you kindly, Mr Marshal.]] The Minister for Education and Science has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? There's no government representative. I'm opening a discussion... [[But I have a question for the government representative.]] Mr. Senator, it's very difficult to address questions to people who aren't in the room, so you don't have a marshal to ask a question to a representative of the government. [[Thank you for explaining.]] Thank you kindly. [[I'll ask your government representative to answer in writing.]] But who is the marshal asking for an answer in writing? I'm not able to answer because I'm not a member of the government, and I'm praised to God. [[Excuse me, who was authorized, Mr. Marshal?]] The Minister of Education and Science has been authorized to present the position of the government in the course of parliamentary work... [[Voice from the room: So...]] ...who, Mr. Senator, has not come to our meeting, nor has he sent any of his numerous representatives. Therefore, neither the senator can address the question to the Minister, nor can I now, in the Chamber, ask the Minister to answer in writing. Nevertheless, I can assure you that, as the Senate bureau, we will report to the Minister of Education and Science with a written question which Mr. Marshal wanted and which he could not, not by his own fault, ask in the courtroom. [[Thank you very much.]] Thank you very much. And I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u208	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! At this very moment, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to debate about the elements that raised the greatest doubts and did not concern, as the Minister said, the belief that this law would have an effect or not. I was the author of the motion to reject this law. Let me stress once again that we are not denying intent. We negate the bill that has these intentions to implement. Why? First of all, I also answer to Senator Czerwinski. We have come to the conclusion that this law cannot be improved, but it can be divided into many, many parts, so that the valuable initiatives within it can be implemented by those institutions that are already there. The Polish Academy of Sciences, any university or institution of scientists can carry out this congress, e.g. within 2 or 3 years. The second reason was also very important. Well, we haven't found a body in any scientific community that would support this law. This, of course, raises serious doubts. I do not share the view that the comments that have been made to us do not concern this law, this initiative. Yes, they do not apply very often to specific provisions, but they do concern your intentions as well as the law itself. It was easy for me to note a huge number of criticisms. Those critical remarks I've divided it into several elements, but I'll talk about it in a minute. In my opinion, this law unfortunately does not multiply, but divides what is most valuable in science, the most important, i.e. some potential, as well as financial resources. I considered the objectives proposed in this act to be unrealistic. I also saw some nonchalance in his records, and various inconsistencies were identified by the Senate's Legislative Office. There is also a lack of sense of these needs, which are at present the most important ones that can be identified as the main ones. I want one too. In answer to questions that have arisen It is clear: yes, it can happen that the government's decision, then the Sejm and the Senate, will have additional resources to study, including for this academy, if it arises. However, no additional source of funding was identified at this stage. Only the position that covers the world of science has been identified. One at a time. Firstly, everyone emphasizes that the Copernican Academy has a random discipline structure. Secondly, political, non-transparent criteria for the choice of dorms have been established. Well, it's about meeting certain criteria. The compositions for each task were wrongly selected. I would stress that I am talking about the Copernican Academy. Definitely didn't estimate the cost. They will be more than 100 times greater, as those who speak on financial matters emphasize. I would also like to stress that pointing out that the academy is to give new energy, new opportunities, is so inconsistent that dorms remain in this case, in this particular case, until 80 years of age. The debaters themselves stressed that what Polish science needs at the moment, especially as regards science, is its rejuvenation, refreshing, building incentives from a real event for young and the most capable. Come on, double tasks. I would stress that this appeared in practically all opinions. In fact, this is in line with the missions that are being carried out by existing institutions. As far as the Nicolaus Copernicus School is concerned, I already ignore the fact that it arises outside the current criteria. I would also like to stress that neither this year nor the next year will apply to the evaluation which is being carried out by higher education institutions, and that a category has been given an administrative decision. It does not come from the acquis, because it does not exist at the moment. There are also doubts as to how to get staff to this school. After all, the institutions that already exist are weak or not strong enough. I'm skipping the flawed thematic structure. It's all being realized a little bit next to the civilization trends. We now have a simple task: to advance time, not to chase it. It was also stressed that the elements that could be translated into strengthening our economic activity and attractiveness are not up to the law itself. I was talking about the congress about an unrealistic time of execution, an unknown purpose... But let's say this is something to be overcome. However, in such a short time it is impossible to fulfil international ambitions, i.e. international promotion. If we are talking about a well-prepared congress and yet with an international promotion, even the period I have been talking about, two years, is not enough. This period would have to be designed as a minimum of three or four years. The adjectives that appear in opinions are extremely numerous. I figured there were over 30 repeats, but I'm only gonna trade six, maybe seven. It has been recognised that this project is ineffective in terms of purpose, generating divisions and exclusion, inconsistent, incomprehensible for purposes, with a serious gap in discrimination between technical sciences and agricultural sciences. As for the history of the project, the Minister is right that some opinions refer to the history of the idea, and the history of this idea was first the National Copernican Programme, then there was the resignation of this National Copernican Programme, then the project appeared in New Lada, and when the New Lad turned into a Polish Lad, this project was incorporated, then again thrown out And returned in accordance with the President's intention. This is the story of this project, of course in a nutshell, because I could also talk about nuances. As far as context is concerned, this context is, from my point of view, the most important. I've talked about some things, but I want them to sound. It is rare for countries, strong countries, with strong science, to have more than one academy. Most often, it is ensured that the one that exists is even stronger, even stronger, not duplicated. As I said, I do not read the intention here as an intention to compete, but first of all it must be emphasized that you should not build other institutions that can, I do not claim that they must, only they can. To be the source of the weakening of existing ones. Second thing. For me, quality is very important, not quantity, which is not the number of institutes that we will have, but somehow those that are. And that's what we should take care of. And the main element of taking care of those institutions that exist is simply strengthening them financially. In the European Union, on average, R &amp; D appears to be around 2.20% GDP. There are powers like South Korea that spends 4.52% on this. The second, as I recall, is Japan. In Europe, these results are not so impressive. The United States currently spends nearly 3%. Poland, on the other hand, 1.32%. Yeah, 1.32. . The Czechs and Hungarians are higher than us. We're at the end of the second twenty. And this should be the source of concern for us and for the Sejm and for the government and for the President. With regard to the structure of expenditure, this is the world trend. In Poland 66% this expenditure falls on business and the rest, 34%, on the state. It's not bad, it's just that the state has to pull the business to make these expenses more, in short. With regard to university salaries in the last 6 years, young scientists suffer the most Assistants, senior assistants, also doctors. Unfortunately, within 6 years, these salaries in universities, as far as averages are concerned, fell from over 3.08 to the lowest wage, around 2.13. This should be the source of our concern. And that's what I want to emphasize. As far as the structure is concerned, this is where I even had... The senator asked... We're really in a catastrophic place when it comes to science, Professor Jerzy Langer said about it. And the fact that we lack 100,000 scientists is the result of this table, i.e. from financing. We have to throw into science, in universities, in research, billions. Not $20 million per academy, not $25,000, not $150,000. I've already said that in this project it's converted into gold, 500,000... In general, this is our challenge. Our challenge is also to increase the material facilities. This is a key challenge for us. And that is what I would like to appeal to both the government, the Sejm and the President. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u209	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Agnieszka Kołacz-Leszczyńska. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u210	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! I will try not to duplicate the issues that Senator Zdrojewski has addressed, but actually he said very detailed and as usual what this law contains. I'm gonna talk about the one hope that the president brought the moment he vetoed the lex czarnek bill. Then we felt that perhaps this attitude of the President would change, that there would be listening, and more hearing everything that is directed from the citizens, that the President would already take it and react to all the votes, opinions, opinions of citizens, social groups. As we can see, this project, or, in fact, the bill we're working on today, unfortunately it's denying it again. We stand again, and we are amazed at what has happened, and it is still a proposal by the President. Let me mention and highlight here, ladies and gentlemen, these opinions, these appeals from different backgrounds... These are outstanding scholars, representatives of student authorities, these are trade unions, including trade unions, which really in no way, in any of the aspects that are addressed in this law, have not one good word to say and strongly stress it. And that's why I acknowledge again, and I don't think the President listens or hears what ordinary citizens say. Ladies and gentlemen, most of the issues Mr. Bogdan Zdrojewski has already said, while I cannot go next to one subject, next to the provisions of the Act, which are very important and may actually give such a full picture of the situation. Well, ladies and gentlemen, according to the provisions of this law, during the first period of the Copernicus Academy's activities, half of the members of the Academy will be appointed by the President with the agreement of the Prime Minister and at the request of the Minister. It's gonna be halfway through the first squad. The next members of the academy will, as it says in one of the opinions, be co-opted by the President with the Prime Minister's consent. Of course, the people appointed by the assembly that you had previously elected the President and the Prime Minister And then the Minister's consent or request will no longer be required. The law does not, in any of the records at all, provide for the possibility that a member of the Copernican Academy, the body of eminent scholars, is proposed by any scientific body that will not be accepted by the President and by the Prime Minister. And maybe it's the cloud of the records that carry this project. Perhaps the scientific level, perhaps the scholars, the experts do not want to talk about it, but it is absolutely a school that will actually select its political staff. And perhaps it will be so that it will rise, elevated to the pedestal those people who are at the moment very low in rankings, which perhaps never about grants, about scholarships, about awards, could not seek because they have such small scientific achievements that they may be so weak that they would never receive them, and that is why they need this help from the President and the Prime Minister so that they can exist anywhere. And we know that every once in a while the public is informed about various opinions, various experts from professors, who are ministers' advisors and who sometimes compromise and embarrass scientists with their statements, and such people are working with some ministers. Unfortunately, perhaps this will be another place where such people will be able to function. Dear Senators, one more thing about the so precisely described World Copernican Congress, which is to celebrate the round anniversary of the birth of Nicolaus Copernicus. It must be expected, and it should probably take place, just like hundreds of other conventions around the world. I do not know if you know, but in this act it is all very well described how ambulances will function, where toilets will be placed, which will be used by the participants of the congress, etc. By the way, civil liberties are very limited here, and there are such records here. Well, it's a surprise that one of the congresses that's supposed to take place once every five years... The first one. Not another one, but the first one is described in very detail in this law. Ladies and gentlemen, what else... About the budget, about the money Not additional ones, but those that are to be drawn out of a pool of money for higher education, Senator Zdrojewski has already said. I'm just gonna... Perhaps you will not hear this, so I ask you to tell the President that in these opinions, actually in each opinion, there is a request for the President to consider whether this is the best time to divide, to divide another area of our reality, our Polish everyday life, or the scientific world. Is this the time, the time after the pandemic, which has greatly affected our everyday life, the time when just abroad is war, the time of rampant inflation? These themes also appear in opinions. Is it during divisions that operate in our country? It's also an excuse from those opinions we've received. He's a... he's a... Isn't it time for courage, a time to combine, to show solidarity between us, between citizens, between Poles and not to devastate another area, this time Polish science? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u211	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u212	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! We are discussing a project introduced by the President of the Republic of Poland, on the act on the Copernican Academy, which is supposed to be a prestigious international institution. The aim is to open up the possibility of cooperation between scientists from all over the world, strengthen the Polish academic staff and increase its competitiveness. Does the government believe that the current universities do not carry out extensive international cooperation, or does the President deliberately close his eyes on it? I am afraid that the project of establishing the Copernican Academy will be another example of bad, unfulfilled or semi-executed projects and may have counterproductive effects from its initiators. For the establishment of the academy, no substantive arguments were actually provided except that the project was innovative. Is international cooperation supposed to be this novelty? Dear Member States, it is impossible to build a good scientific facility based on government or presidential nominations, not on excellent, yet verified research work. The concept of the academy thus implemented will not gain recognition of international institutions, on the contrary It will help to reduce the prestige of Polish science. The quality, recognition, prestige or respect cannot be declared. It's been working hard for years, which is what a lot of people are doing right now. Why is there no innovative idea of strengthening these best, already existing institutions? This would bring more benefits to Poles. As for the present idea, apart from strengthening the ties of Polish scientific representatives with the foreign creation of a new scientific institution, it is intended to be a tribute to Nicolaus Copernicus and a reminder to the world that he is a Polish scientist. This argument seems completely impossible because no one questions the Polishness of our scientist. Copernicus is not forgotten either. In the Polish courtyard we have a very popular Copernicus Science Centre in Warsaw and, for example, an EU Earth observation program, which analyzes our planet and its environment, which is called Copernicus. It provides information services based on satellite observations of the Earth. Thus, the name of the Polish astronomer is already often mentioned by both the world of science and ordinary inhabitants. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, however, I will return to the subject of the planned institution of the Copernican Academy, which will consist of 6 chambers referring to the interests of Nicolaus Copernicus: astronomy, mathematics and nature sciences, medicine, economics and management, philosophy and theology and legal sciences. Why just these? Copernicus was also interested in other areas. Why were they omitted, even though they are extremely important for the development of science and the economy of our country? Each Chamber shall consist of 10 to 20 members appointed by the President at the request of the Assembly. There are questions among specialists: will a member of the academy be able to be a professor or a degree or another person considered equivalent? Wouldn't membership of the academy be linked to having a degree as a habilitated doctor or as a professor? Perhaps the Ministry of Education and Science plans to flatten the path of scientific promotion. The amendments will also allow the appointment of foreign members without the need to determine whether a foreign university professor is actually a professor and there are significant differences in the international nomenclature of degrees. I am also concerned that the structure of the Copernican Academy corresponds approximately to the departments of the Polish Academy of Sciences, which puts the future of the Polish Academy of Sciences into question. The inventors of the bill deny this solution and point to competition, not, as you said, cooperation. But that's not all. What about the Polish Academy of Skills, which in some way was already duplicated by the Polish Academy of Sciences? In 1951, when the communists established the Polish Academy of Sciences, they also had beautiful phrases on their lips, and the real purpose was to declassify the national good, which was the Polish Academy of Skills. Luckily, the Polish Academy of Skills exists, but instead of supporting it, the government plans to make its existence even more difficult. After the introduction of the new academy, we will therefore have 3 main scientific units with similar objectives and competences. Isn't that a big exaggeration? Even in larger, more developed countries, it is futile to look for such solutions. One of the key tasks of the new academy is to award prizes, grants or Koperniki scholarships, and there are several recognised Polish institutions that do it well, e.g. National Science Centre, Polish Academy of Sciences or Foundation for Polish Science. Another goal is to organize next year in Toruń for 1 million PLN of the World Copernican Congress. I think there are poor chances of success or prestige, as it would require not only more money but also many treatments and contacts with the world. Perhaps, however, the aim of these actions is not science at all, but a political, internal propaganda lans among voters. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the establishment of the Copernican Academy, according to estimates, will bring about PLN 25 million per year from the state budget, which will certainly be at the expense of budgets of other research universities and scientific units, and so far they are struggling with the unprecedented consequences of the pandemic. Most of the academy's expenditure will be generated by the administrative side. The university is to be ruled by an irreplaceable secretary-general in the rank of minister, who has been given great authority. The function of Director of the Research Centre has also been envisaged, but it has not been defined what this unit is to be. In the first year of the academy members' fees And it's only going to be half the composition of 4 million. The attorney will receive 100 thousand, secretary of 200 thousand. Scholarships will also be funded in the total amount of 720 thousand and grants for 1 million. The grant for the academy ambassador alone is $500,000. The estimated monthly salary of office staff is about PLN 8,000. It is difficult not to get the impression that we are dealing with the placement of our party colleagues in high-paying positions, especially since scholarships for young scientists are only provided for at the level of PLN 6 000. The Act also lists another new institution, the Nicolaus Copernicus Primary School, which was given by its own authority, rather than by its scientific achievements, category B+, which entitles to conduct studies or doctoral school. The colleges of this university, which are technically its internal organisational units, are to be found in the cities, major academic centres indicated in the law. Why over there? It is not known, all the more so that they will have to compete for students and employees with existing universities. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, I regret to say that this bill has so many flaws that it cannot be repaired. In the absence of a public consultation and a wider, particularly environmental discussion in the creation of the Copernican Academy of Experimental Structures, where an external legal person will have an important influence on the management of the university, the academic community is undoubtedly antagonized, creates conflicts and divisions. Almost the entire scientific community has been called to abandon this harmful idea. It is enough to mention the opinions of institutions such as the Conference of Rectors of Academic Schools of Poland, the Main Council of Science and Higher Education and the Polish Academy of Sciences. I stress: although the character of Nicholas Copernicus deserves attention without a doubt, Poland should be proud in the international environment of the Polish Academy of Skills, which was established in 1872 and is definitely distinguished from other countries. Unfortunately, the authorities in their naivety carry out the will of the Polish People's Republic, weakening even more the institution so well deserved for the country. It would therefore be appropriate to direct these millions to the Polish Academy of Skills and entrust them with the tasks planned and not implemented to the National Copernican Programme. In this way, the resources would be better managed and the objectives would be achieved by an experienced and respected staff. Such a solution would be supported widely by all scientific and political communities, and Poles would benefit. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u213	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u214	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! A few words actually about the principles and ways of conducting scientific policy. Because we're dealing with a project like this. Not only are Polish experiences, but the experiences of all countries are clear. Scientific policy or cultural policy requires courage, but this is an area of particular sensitivity where dialogue is conducted. And what must surprise in this situation, in the case of this project, is that in fact no relevant scientific environment was in favour of this solution. I've been in a situation like this many times when I supported minority projects. But running politics completely alone, without contact with the environment, with anyone who recommends such a solution, as if... There's a reason I've been asking about a man high up in international science who bravely, publicly supported this solution. And I didn't get the answer to that question. And don't hide behind the procedural issues, because the President is the institution that is more obliged than the government to animate social dialogue. From this country you have various counsels, which you boast about on various occasions to conduct a dialogue. The second point is the question of some continuity of the policy of the United Right camp. It's the sixth year of her reign. For the first four years of this policy, you have led Deputy Prime Minister Gowin. It must be said that she was criticized, also criticized in your environment, but was conducted with an open hatch. It started with a two-year consultation. And no one's reported a project like this. No one claimed that the internationalization of Polish science requires the construction of such an institutional structure. Just no one, no one in this debate. So you have to answer yourself so completely, because of the principle of fairness, as you judge these six years. Has there been any progress here? After all, various proposals were made. Some were implemented, e.g. this special competition for universities, a fair competition, because the panel was led by a Danish scientist, unrelated to the interests of none of the Polish universities. And it was on this panel that 10 universities were selected, which received special grants for conducting research activities. Is this a reasonable solution or not? Will it continue, or will it not continue? Is your solution better? We do not hear the answers to such questions at all. You don't ask yourself such questions, and the simple principle of integrity prompts you to ask such questions. Finally, this is the sphere where, as Prof. Chantal Delsol writes, the culture of the gardener should prevail, not the culture of the engineer. The culture of the gardener requires dialogue, it requires evaluation of its experience, continuity, but it also requires building institutions, if not in the culture of consensus, in the culture of seeking wider support. And please note that these institutions in Poland, which proved to be permanent and formed as new As the Museum of the Warsaw Uprising, as the European Solidarity Centre, as the Museum of Polish History, or even as the IPN in the first phase of its existence, were built in the culture of seeking broad support. We have absolutely terrible experiences. After 2015, not one institution was established in a consensus culture, not one, but a lot of institutions were created for their own, e.g. The de Republic Institute appointed by Prime Minister Morawiecki... I don't know if you know this, but there is an institution run by a taxpayer's money. [[We get gifts from him.]] Yes. We get presents. His international reputation is unknown to the world. And this is the taxpayer's money. ...Pilecki Institute created by Minister Gawin to take over his presidency... I was convinced that it was to create a serious institution. These are experiences. I do not assume that this will be a party institution, but we did not have any proof of one logic, which still several years ago caused permanent institutions to be created. Some have served Poland well even to this day. I understand that you have decided to do this and that this institution has been created, I just say once again: permanent institutions are created in the gardener's culture, and in the culture of political demand there are informal institutions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u215	Mr. Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u216	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The question needs to be answered: why do we need this law in a situation where we have institutions of different kinds that play the role that the new Copernican Academy is supposed to play? It is stated in the explanatory memorandum that after the establishment of the National Centre for Science, the National Centre for Research and Development, the National Agency for Academic Exchange and the Łukasiewicz Network, this idea closes the reform process. Well, the scientific community is very difficult for the current authority. There you have to have a status that you get for many years, either at a scientific institution or at a university. You have to identify yourself with research, publications. And it is clear to me that there are two indications that we are discussing this bill today. The first is to seek to establish an institution supervised before a political factor. Because it's supervised by the Prime Minister. This is not an institution which, like universities and the Polish Academy of Sciences, will have autonomy, independence. She's being supervised by the Prime Minister. The first half of the academy members are indicated by the Minister and appointed by the Prime Minister, and then the next members will be appointed as part of this distinction. This reminds me a little bit of the principle of appointing members of the KRS, because, as it turns out, some of them signed other letters of support, and we saw that the king was naked. Gentlemen and ladies signed them to each other, and then they were ashamed and they didn't want to reveal who was signing to whom. It's the same situation here. This institution is created to have or create a group of its own scientists It's a first. Secondly, in order to create an institution that is equal to the Polish Academy of Sciences and weaken or cause more constable decisions, the more permissive attitude of this environment towards the current authority. In my opinion, this is also a preparation to take over the powers of the Polish State and to liquidate this institution in the future. So I see clearly what this evolution is going to be doing. Now it's about the college that's supposed to be called. Nicolaus Copernicus Primary School It's beautifully called, really beautiful. When I heard about Nicolaus Copernicus Main School and Copernicus Academy, of course I was happy. But when I started reading this bill, and especially when I read the Senate Legislative Office's opinion, I realized what was going on. I remembered that in the late 1940's and early 1950's, when the new power took over science or wanted to take over it and break some opposition from the scientific community, it also introduced some solutions. Well, it was also a matter of establishing the Polish Academy of Skills and winding up the Polish Academy of Skills. The same operation was carried out. The Lord already looks different after several decades, completely different. But the approach of this authority is quite similar to that of the one that we all condemn and which they also condemn, as it seemed, the authors of this law. The rule of the Law on Higher Education, such that the university only after several years of activity has the possibility to award titles, i.e. subject to evaluation, as it is nicely and wisely called... This new college is gonna get it right away. It will be the first high school in Poland, which will be able to broadcast degrees without scientific achievements. This primary school, I am still talking about the primary school at the moment, will be able to conduct studies in philosophy or economics and finance, employing as teachers Academics of at least a few graduates entering the labour market. That's what I'm quoting from the legal opinion of our Legal Office. So this university is going to be highly dependent on a political factor. And its scientific activities will also depend on the government-political factor. In addition, the criteria that it will apply will allow for the introduction into the scientific community of people who will not have the right status and will not be able to legitimise themselves with their scientific achievements. I also see here in many places the hand of the present Minister of Black A minister who isn't here. I would therefore like to ask him. Yeah, but he's not here. But I see his hand here. You remember when Minister Czarnek set up the Zamość Academy. Remember? We remember. Yeah, basically his own private college because he filled it with his friends. A public university in the place where the private university was operating. We know they're supposed to be on the basis of this bill. The College of Astronomy and Natural Sciences in Toruń, the Medical College in Olsztyn, the College of Economic Sciences and Management in Warsaw, the College of Philosophy and Theology in Cracow, the College of Legal Sciences in Lublin. I see the hand of Minister Czarnek in the establishment of a college of philosophy and theology. Why philosophy and theology? Of course, they used to connect, etc., but that's a long time ago. And the College of Legal Sciences in Lublin... [[Timer signal]] On the basis of what university? What about those institutions that work? For example, medical science in Olsztyn. There's the medical department. So, what, he's gonna be upset? And the College of Astronomy and Natural Sciences in Toruń... [[Mr. Marshal, it's past time. You can use five more minutes.]] Thank you very much. But I'm pointing... Well, we don't know about these science centers. Are they gonna be taken over? Will people be accepted? So this bill is dangerous. Not only evil, but also dangerous for Polish science. And I will vote against this bill. It's hard to find room for discussion here. She's angry and should be rejected. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u217	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Sekuła, Tyszkiewicz, Matecka, Szwed, Szejnfeld, Bieda, Hibner, Pęcherz, Łuczak, Dunin presented their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Do the president's representative or government representative still want to speak? You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u218	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I will say literally in a telegraph briefing, only in one sentence I will say, Mr. Marshal, that you are also under the supervision of the President of the Council of Ministers. It's not a charge at all, it's a matter of a certain organization of science. That kind of argument... you have to watch how system science is built today. To conclude this discussion, thanking you for the opportunity to speak, I would like to sum up the arguments that have been made here. There were arguments here that there was a need for support for science. This law is giving support to science, and it is in the form of a very large pool of funds. Nobody's questioning the necessity of celebrating Nicolaus Copernicus. This is also the purpose of this law. Support for young researchers This argument was most frequently invoked. I don't think there's anyone in this room who wouldn't support that request. This is one of the basic objectives of science, so that not only young Polish scientists can obtain resources. The amount of PLN 6,000 fell, but the senator who called her forgot to add that this is the amount designed monthly, not overall. The Congress of Nicholas Copernicus also raises no doubt It is the President's proposal for a very concrete date, so as to highlight the historical and scientific dimension. What about the arguments against it? Impact on existing scientific units or temptations to take over existing institutions today. No provision of the law presented by your President provides for such solutions. On the contrary, it is clear that there are provisions that tell us how the Copernicus Academy is to be set up and where the funds for its activities are to come from. Moreover, any change in the organizational activity of today's existing universities or scientific institutes would require a statutory change. No provision of this law contains such a proposal. I'm making an additional declaration to the High Senate that the President's Office is not working on any such project. There was an argument about sharing the scientific community, but there are no arguments to justify it. Is the fact that an outstanding scientist is getting awards today an argument for saying that the fact that Professor Iksiński gets the prize is to divide the environment? Well, that's an incomprehensible argument at all. Doubts about the achievements and allegations about the party origin of the academy members. I would like to remind you of how high the standard in this respect is laid down by the law proposed by your President and how the choice is. Yes, it is true that half of the members will be appointed by your President, but there must be a model that will start a body. There was a room for discussion here, but no amendments were tabled in this respect. All other members of the Academy who will be appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland must have the support of scientific bodies. And the last point, purely technical, is the issue of organizing the Congress next year in Toruń. Yes, the President has proposed a fairly broad regulation in this area. This is not a new solution in any way. These are regulations modelled on regulations concerning previously organized World Youth Days or COP conferences in Katowice. These are solutions that have worked out and that have not been questioned as to the compatibility with the Constitution. In proposing these solutions, Mr President had a guided by what is now the international situation and how important security issues are, also for our guests from abroad. Once again, thanking the High Senate for the opportunity to present the bill, I kindly ask you to consider this issue and support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u219	Thank you, Minister. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Act establishing the National Day of the Silesian Uprising. The text of the Act is contained in print No 711, and the report of the Commission In print No 711 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Bogdan Borusewicz, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u220	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The purpose of the Law of 12 May 2022 on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising is to establish a new state holiday The National Day of the Silesian Uprising, celebrated on June 20, 1922 on the anniversary of the Polish Army's accession to Katowice. It is a tribute to the heroes of the Silesian Uprising, in which tens of thousands participated. It is also a tribute to the efforts of the Polish state, which supported these uprisings, and especially the Third Uprising, in various ways, not only politically. These uprisings, especially the last ones, had an impact on the completion of the construction of the Polish state and establishing the borders of Poland. The presidential project was introduced to the Sejm on May 6. His first reading in the Committee on Culture and Media took place on 11 May this year. The Sejm Committee on Culture and Media submitted a project with one punctuation and submitted a request from minorities, which proposed that the National Day of the Silesian Uprising should not be 20 June, but 2 May, the day of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. The motion for a minority was rejected by the Sejm and we received a legislative proposal in the form in which it talks about the date of 20 June. Yesterday, there was a meeting of a similar Senate committee. The Commission has unanimously adopted this law and proposes that the Senate adopt it in the version in which it was submitted. I would also like to say that there were 436 votes in favour of this law, 4 votes against and 12 Members abstained on this law. I would also like to remind you that on June 20, 1922, General Stanisław Szeptycki commanded the troops that entered Upper Silesia. I would also like to say that his brother Andrzej Szeptycki, his own brother, was a U.N. Metropolitan In Lviv, or in this family, as in several other families, nationality identification was done in different ways. The Metropolitan of Whittycki was undoubtedly Ukrainian, and General Whittycki was undoubtedly Polish. I would like to remind you that such situations were also in Upper Silesia, where, if there were three brothers, some called themselves Germans, others as Poles, and the third as Upper Silesiacs, because this type of national identification also took place during this period. On my way back to the bill, I would like to ask for the support of this law in the wording proposed by the Sejm and the Senate. There was a high level of unanimity here. I also want to thank the President for making a bill this time that did not raise any controversy. I think it will be supported in the Senate today in the same way as in the Senate committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u221	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Halin Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have one question. I was asked by the Councillors of the Sejm of the Silesian Voivodeship to ask such a question. Did the committee's meeting mention why the date was changed? The appeal of the Silesian Sejm was about the date of 16 July, that this would be the day of the Silesian Uprising. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u223	There was a discussion, but the June date was not controversial. There was an answer... I understand that this was already a Seym controversy. The argument was that any date related to the beginning or end of one of these three uprisings would trigger a discussion about why this would be the date of this uprising rather than another. The date of entry of Polish troops, 20 June 1922, did not cause any discussion. This is the date of inclusion of Upper Silesia, otherwise: acquisition by Upper Silesia Poland. That's the answer that came from... It wasn't a controversial date, it wasn't a discussion, so that's the date. That was the answer from the Minister at the President's office. [[Thank you very much. I'll ask the Minister, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u224	Of course. You're asking Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u225	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. A question for you, Marshal Borusewicz. Please tell us whether the argument was also used during the debate at the committee meeting. I refer to the date of the establishment of this national holiday Which appeared in connection with May 2, i.e. that this day is also a celebration of the flag and the day of Polonia, so the order on that third day, let's call it, this state holiday would miss the goal, because there would be mutual abolition of these celebrations. Was this thread present at the committee meeting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u226	Mr. Senator, I admit I don't remember. It's very possible he was. Mr. Senator was at that meeting. Yeah, the location of the holiday at a time when there's another holiday, it's not good, because... I do not know whether the Silesian uprisings would cover the festival of the flag or the festival of the flag would cover the festival of the Silesian uprisings. [[Voice from the room: Mr. Senator answered himself.]] [[Voice from the room: Right.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u227	Thank you very much, senator, for asking the question and answering the question. [[Joy in the Chamber]] No further questions, so thank you very much to the marshal, Senator rapporteur. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the president. The President's position was presented in the course of parliamentary work by the Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland, Ms Małgorzata Paprocka and Mr Wojciech Kolarski. Do the President's representatives wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the President's position? I invite Minister Wojciech Kolarski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u228	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! High Senate! First of all, thank you very much for your support for the President's initiative. Thank you very much for the votes expressed more than understanding, kindness and recognition of the right which are behind the law adopted by the Sejm on 12 May this year. It is a law which should be seen from the perspective of the continued statutory celebrations of the century of regaining independence by the Republic. Under the Act, the Parliament of the Republic accepted that the years 2017 and 2022 would be the period during which we will remember this great effort of our predecessors, who after 123 years rebuilt the independent Republic to show that it was a process, that it was not one event, that it was the effort of the entire generation, which lasted for a time. This is how these time frames have been defined and the Act discussed today refers to the time of the end of the celebration, i.e. the 100th anniversary of the return of Upper Silesia to the Republic. Already during the work on the Act on the celebration of the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, this symbolic date appeared, the date remembered in Silesia and celebrated in Silesia, i.e. 20 June, i.e. the day on which in 1922 the Polish Army under the command of General Stanisław Szeptycki was solemnly welcomed in Katowice, among others. by Wojciech Korfanty, dictator of one of the Silesian uprisings. Speaking immediately to the senator's question, which was asked to the senator of the rapporteur, I will explain that the date which was in the resolution of the Sejm of the Silesian Voivodeship, the resolution which was the direct cause of President Andrzej Duda's legislative initiative, was discussed with local authorities from Silesia. It was discussed with the voivodship authorities, the arguments which were accepted were presented. Of course for historical reasons Yes, such a date of the act of including Upper Silesia in the matrix could also function as the date of the public holiday, however, since earlier, just in the course of the work on the 100th anniversary of regaining independence, the date of 20 June... This proposal was sort of discussed, consulted and finally accepted by local authorities who presented their initiative to the President in the presidential palace, their request and who witnessed the signing by President Andrzej Duda of the proposal addressed to the marshal's staff. Speaking of the local community, I would like to stress that the President's initiative comes from this civil, bottom-up belief that the Republic should commemorate in the form of a state holiday this great effort of the Silesians, i.e. The 3th Silesian Uprising, the result of which was, as I said, the inclusion of the Upper Silesia in the matrix in 1922. I also stress this fact of citizenship and this grassroots initiative, because it is reflected in a vision of the celebration of the century of independence, and this is also of great importance in our work on the bill. The president wanted these celebrations to be of a civic nature and to see the law that was being passed today, just as the bill on the victorious uprising of Wielkopolska • was a result of such a bottom-up belief that the celebrations of the century of regaining independence should also be commemorated in such a way. Hence I bring and appeal to the High Senate that the High Senate should pay tribute to the heroes whose courage and dedication enabled the return of the Upper Silesia to the reborn Republic, cultivating the memory of those fighting for independence, and spreading the knowledge of these 3 national breaks in the nationwide consciousness, adopted the bill submitted, expressed support for it, expressed acceptance. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u229	Thank you very much, Minister. Does the senator want to ask you another question? Because I understand that the Minister... [[Yes.]] You're welcome. Senator Rotnicka. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u230	Thank you very much. I'd ask for an explanation, actually. Of course, we will support this bill. But where did this difference in dates come from, i.e. July 16th, which the local government requested, I understand, Silesia, and now 22... yeah? [[Voices from the room: No, June 20th.]] And June 20th. What's the difference? And who's more important here? Because I didn't really understand what was going on.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u231	Senator, High Senate, in the process of working on this bill... I can share the following reflection. This project, this initiative has gained widespread recognition and a cross-party consensus. The only discussion was about the date. This involves not only the date discussed at this point on 16 July, but it was also proposed on 2 May as the date of the outbreak of the Third Silesian Uprising. The date of 20 June was proposed in the presidential project because it is a date which does not refer to the first, nor to the second, nor to the third uprising, but is a date which refers to the effort of these 3 uprisings, to this patriotic effort, the fruit of which is to include part of Upper Silesia in the matrix. And the date of 20 June was chosen as a date which has just such a symbolic expression and which is a date of commemoration, not even in the form of a national holiday, but in the form of local holidays, in Upper Silesia. That's why it's a decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u232	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? There isn't. Well, thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland Wojciech Kolarski: Thank you very much.]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Simon Giżyński: Yes, please.]] I invite Minister Simon Giżyński, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Simon Giżyński: Secretary of State.]] Well, I've got the wrong script... I am very sorry, Minister, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u233	It's just, of course, for the formal order. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am also pleased with this aspect, without much controversy, to commemorate what happened in Silesia and, as to this day, is certainly such a manifestation of national pride and the basis for believing that these Silesian uprisings contributed to what was then a matter for Poland to be or not to be. After all, 1918, i.e. regaining independence and creating a Polish state, did not mean the end of the struggle for borders, for the shape of this country, for its prospects. This was done in a few years and eventually it was done in a certain dimension in Silesia. Of course, we are talking about the realities of the Second Republic of Poland, but without the Second Republic there would not be what we are today. So this gratitude to the Silesian insurgents is absolutely natural, it is a manifestation of patriotism, it is a manifestation of what our generation today expresses in its love for their homeland, a manifestation of that feeling. After all, it is quite clear that this manifestation and the reference to the date of 20 June symbolize such a very simple but most important fact that the whole Polish nation was the resurgent of the Polish state. And in this way we pay proper homage to the Silesian insurgents. I am grateful to you that in place of what you said here, Marshal Borusewicz, a graduate, as far as I know, history at KUL, being her master of... Marshal Borusewicz spoke of the takeover of Silesia, and Minister Kolarski spoke of his return to his homeland. Once upon a time, it's happening too. It was said to go back to the matrices, in those realities it had a beautiful, patriotic, very sensitive justification. I think that these reflections are a form of support for all these intentions resulting from good will, patriotic intentions. I, from my humble perspective, have added some comments that this positive side of the narrative, the positive side of motivation in a modest dimension complements. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u234	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Thank you very much, then, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage Simon Giżyński: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Gentlemen of Ministers! This is a very valuable initiative, and there is no doubt about it. It is important to pay tribute to the President and, at the hand of the Minister, to thank him for all these actions. However, it may be worthwhile to refer to a number of issues that have been raised in the context of the discussion of this law. The first point is the historical context at all. Why? Because the public has such a belief that Poland's regaining independence in 1918 was like a day-long process. On November 11th, there was an uprising... Marshal Piłsudski was given command of the army and the Polish state was established. But the truth is, there was a whole series of very important events which led to the fact that on 16 July 1922. The part of Upper Silesia has already been officially covered by the Polish State, by the reborn Second Republic. And this has just closed the period of constitution of the State, the determination of borders of the Second Republic of Poland. The High Izbo, in fact the Second Republic in this shape, which we know from history books, in this geographical form, existed actually only 17 years, from July 1922 to September 1939. It's worth remembering. Therefore, when ceremonial celebrations of the century of regaining independence were established, the calendar of these events, all that involved these events, was written down for 4 years. And very rightly, because it was a continuous process. It is difficult for me to say whether the course of these celebrations over the last 4 years has led to an increase in the awareness of Polish citizens that this process has been extended or not, but I think it was a very good decision. It wasn't a one-time act, so we didn't celebrate these celebrations once. I would also like to thank the entire committee. Thank you for all the events that followed. The present law closes this period of celebration of the century of regaining independence, because it establishes a new festival, which in turn refers to events concerning the completion of the borders of an independent state after 123 years of captivity. I hope that this will be very soon, perhaps even today, voted that we will accept this without amendment in the Senate and the bill will be placed on the President's desk. I believe that the President is immediately, which is as soon as possible, he will sign and this year, June 20th, or so in the century of these events. In some ways, but exactly in the century We will be able to celebrate this national holiday for the first time. As for this date, it is worth referring to a few threads. The process of fighting for Upper Silesia was a long-term process. Well, there were Silesian uprisings. I don't want to go too far into history, but we need to talk about the plebiscite that was ordered in March 2021. [[Voice from the room: 1921]] I'm sorry, I'm still wrong. I'm sorry about the mistake, of course. It was ordered in March, and as 200 thousand Germans were transported from Germany to the plebiscite area, this plebiscite was lost. Only 40% voting according to these official results recognized the affiliation of Upper Silesia to the Polish state. If not for the Third Silesian Uprising, whose leader was Wojciech Korfanta, if not for the very smooth operation of the reborn Republic... The insurgents received thousands of weapons. There were instructors, former officers of the Polish Army who were included in the insurgent structures. It was perfectly organized for the conditions and possibilities of the reborn and poor Polish country, which faced the eye with the German element. It was really fantastic. Only as a result of this 3rd uprising was it finally considered that 29% would be attached to Poland the territory at issue Well, originally nothing came from this plebiscite for us. With 46% of the population. And indeed, on June 20th, a thousand nine hundred... so that I don't make a mistake... It was not 2022, it was 1922 that Polish troops entered under the command of General Stanisław Szeptycki, a cavalry. And they were solemnly welcomed. There were 200 welcome gates, as chroniclers record. It was a huge event. There was a Mass celebrated. on the market in Katowice, and Polish troops arrived greeted Wojciech Korfanty, undoubtedly a hero and a great politician, without whom the involvement of Upper Silesia in Poland would definitely become a question mark. ♪ And yet ♪ And this is what Senator Poor asked you on July 16th, there was a formal act of signing the incorporation of this part of Upper Silesia into the Republic of Poland. And from a formal point of view, actually the date of July 16th... She's such a date, let's call it formal. But I wouldn't get into this argument anymore, because just like the Independence Day... Why November 11th, not November 10th? We can start this discussion and I'll be serious arguments and after one date, and after the other, etc. As far as May 2 is concerned, here the arguments not to establish this holiday on May 2 were, in my opinion, obvious, uncontested and prejudicing. First, the celebration of the flag, second, the festival of Polonia, third: it was one of the uprisings, why should we honor it, and others not? Or other events? And that would just start a discussion like this. So, when I return to this law, I would like to thank the Minister very warmly once again and to express my great appreciation and joy that we will be able to celebrate this feast on 20 June for the first time this year, exactly during the 100th anniversary of these historical events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Guests are here! First of all, I would like to thank the President and his representatives here. Who came up with this initiative. Because indeed, there was no holiday to honor all three Silesian uprisings. Because there was a string, of course. The first, second, third and all of them aimed for one purpose. It was about connecting the largest part of Upper Silesia to the matrix, to the reborn Polish country. And it's just that the Silesians deserve this holiday. They just deserve this holiday. And it was a good thing that during the centenary celebration of Poland's regaining independence, the entire program of the independent... I would like to remind you here, as part of the digression, that at first the time horizon was set until 1921. Then we realized together that it should be 1922. Very good. Very good. And it's also important that this bill and this holiday have its foundation, I would call it, folk, i.e. directly from the citizens, from their representatives... power in a sense responded to the bottom-up demands here. Now it's a matter of date. There were different dates. July 16th... but July 16th is a formal act, signing a certain document, incomparable in collective memory with what was June 20th. Why? Well, it was a Silesian holiday. Then Polish troops entered the territory until recently German. Then the Silesians welcomed them very solemnly, these famous welcome gates... We need to be clear about this. And in fact, it's the presence of the army in a given area that means that the territory is fully, let's call it, the property of a given country. That's something you have to say to yourself clearly. Of course, international acts, contracts Yeah, it matters. Incidentally, if you look from this point of view, the final shape of Poland's borders was accepted by the Council of Ambassadors on 15 March 1923. Only then was the document concerning the eastern border of Poland accepted by the Council of Ambassadors. But that's not the point. This is about public awareness, public awareness, in this case awareness of the inhabitants of Silesia. But there's one more thing. We're all talking about three Silesian uprisings. Ladies and gentlemen, if you think about it further, it was the 4th uprising. There was still a Olescian uprising. It in the public consciousness practically functions very poorly. This does not, of course, concern the district of Oleski and Opole. In the night from 7 to 8 June, a group of about 300 people began, let's call it an uprising, an armed statement. Only one ranch was captured, and then the insurgents withdrew. But that was the beginning. That was the beginning. The coincidence of June 7, 8 and June 20... The proximity of these dates also has its meaning, because it is a kind of buckle that closes... Starting from this Oleski uprising, and ending just at the entry of troops. There is one more thing I would like to draw attention to. We often say: return to the matrix after 123 years. But that's not true, ladies and gentlemen. In this case supervision, I would call it, political over the land of Upper Silesia, but not only Upper, in general Silesia, the Republic lost in 1339. As a result of the consent of Kazimierz Wielki to the subjugation of the then fragmented Silesian dukedom, or rather of the fragmented individual parishes, they became under Czech rule. By the way, Kazimierz the Great tried to recover these lands in different ways, not always did. But from that date, i.e. For almost 600 years, exactly 580, Silesia was politically outside Poland. Imagine: this isn't after 123 years... There's a memory of generations, I mean, a grandson can remember what his granddad used to say to him, or So it might be safer to say The great-grandfather, but there is no memory of generations here anymore. In this area something else connected the population, thanks to which it survived in Polishness and then it appeared also during the plebiscite. The population survived in Poland for nearly 600 years, despite increased Germanization, persecution. I am talking about this recent period, not about the Middle Ages, but about this period, let's call it, the subordinates of the German state, actually Prusai, because it is like a better term. Question: "What was the connection between Poles, what kept them in Poland, even though Poland did not exist for 123 years?" What did they have in common with the newly formed Polish state? How strong is it? it was e.g. A religious element? How was Polishness cultivated by clergymen in this area? I don't know if you remember, but we recently adopted a resolution in the century of the death of Fr. Augustine the String. He was just a certain exemplification, an example of how difficult it was to preach and maintain this Polishness. We by this resolution paid tribute to all priests who advocated Poland, they preached Poland, but not only because they later led to the possibility of creating these triumphal gates and the triumphal greeting of the Polish army. For this we should be grateful, but first of all we should be grateful to the Silesian people, it is said, autochtonic, to those who identified their small homeland with Poland and wanted this small homeland to return to Poland. And I hope... I am convinced that this holiday will be a symbol of the Silesians who spoke, spoke and will stand for Poland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u238	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does the president's representative, the government, still want to speak? Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item five of the agenda: the law amending the Foreign Service Act and some other laws. The text of the act is contained in print No 703, and the report of the committee In print No 703 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Senator Bogdan Klich, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The Commission leaned on the proposed amendment to the Foreign Service Act last week and requested that it be rejected. I would like to mention three issues that have been discussed by the committee. Firstly, the committee critically referred to the issue of eliminating the degree of attaché and making the third secretary in the embassy of the lowest diplomatic degree. The arguments that emerged concerned the flattening of this structure, because it will indeed be flattened. There were doubts as to how this new structure would be a motivating structure for those who would take up a job in diplomacy and want to have a career path. Because of course she can be defined, I assume she will be defined. But less of this career would mean less motivation to climb that ladder. The Minister argued that this did not mean any layoffs as regards persons with such a diplomatic degree at the moment. The Commission took note of the fact that the people who are now attached will be developed and will act as third secretaries in our diplomacy. The second question raised concerned the possibility of removing from the diplomatic service those who would twice refuse to enter the facility they were offered. Here the question was whether we were dealing with a disorder of a certain balance that exists at the moment between, on the one hand, the availability of diplomats and, on the other hand, the acceptance of their preferences. Minister Wawrzyk, present here in the Chamber today, argued that the will of the current management of the Ministry is that this availability should be fuller and that this does not mean automatic dismissal in diplomatic service. The third issue, most widely discussed, was the question of re-verification of people who had already been verified many times before for their loyalty to the Polish state. I would like to remind you that the Act states that a person who has been educated has obtained a professional title, degree in art, academic degree, academic degree or has carried out scientific activities in a subject of a higher education and science system which is a security authority of another State or is part of a military force of another State, or is part of a foreign or internal ministry of another State, or is under their supervision or controlled by them, may be employed in a foreign service after the application has been submitted and the approval of the Head of Foreign Service has been obtained. But the head of the foreign service is now to give his consent to employ a person in the foreign service after receiving the opinion of the head of the Internal Security Agency, which would state that there is no reason to believe that such employment is possible. The committee asked if they even expressed doubts. on this solution, they claimed that it would actually mean the possibility of removing from the diplomatic service those diplomats who had previously been educated in countries other than allies. These three arguments, these three cases were discussed most widely. The Commission has decided by 4:1 votes to propose that the High House reject the amendment to the Foreign Service Act.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u240	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u241	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question. I happen to be on the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union. At the committee meeting, you said that foreign service agencies are very often travel agencies. I'd like to ask. However, these are very insulting words to Polish foreign service offices, if you are able to give some examples. That was a question that had already been asked at the committee meeting. You weren't able to answer back then. Perhaps now you can give some examples that you have suggested, directing such insulting words at Polish foreign service offices.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u242	As you know, Mr. Senator, I avoid insulting words and I find it difficult to cast them at any time in this room and in any other room. This is just an opinion that I have presented on the basis of web analyzes, based on Facebook analysis, where everyone can see what actions are being taken by our diplomatic agencies. It's for inspection, you can gain that knowledge. I don't want to point out specific diplomatic posts, because everyone can make their own opinions on the basis of an analysis of what they find on the Internet. I believe that the statement that this is offensive is at the same time an attempt, Senator, to close their mouths to those who express opinions different from those of the ruling camp. I ask you not to use such expressions and not to close the mouth of the opposition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u243	The senator still wants to ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u244	Mr. Senator, I am not shutting down the opposition in any way. I'm asking, and you're saying there's this stuff on the Internet. I just didn't see them, and yet I'm going to ask which offices of Polish foreign service you meant.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u245	I encourage you to be more active, Mr. Senator, and make your own opinions after analysing such materials.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u246	Senator Swede again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u247	I have another question, Senator. In addition to the rejection request, were there any other conclusions at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u248	Yes. The senator has requested that this amendment be adopted without amendment. In the first place, there was, as usual, a motion to go further, to reject the bill, and it gained the support of the people I mentioned.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u249	Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u250	Mr President, I would like to refer to the question of Senator Swede. You're the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I have a question about this very opinion that we often hear. You're not the only one who can hear her. We all often hear that indeed the Ministry is more likely to organize tourist trips than substantive meetings at the moment. Did you ask the Ministry to prepare a report on the trips and what these trips were about?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u251	I don't rule that out. I hear about this proposal for the first time, and I'll be happy to consider it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u252	Senator Kwiatkowski wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u253	Mr President, I would like to ask whether the current staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and candidates for workers are already being verified, for example. by the Homeland Security Agency.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u254	Ladies and gentlemen, this was the third point we discussed, that was the third question. Those who work in the ministry and act as executives, I am thinking of political leadership here. Of course, they have access to the highest secret clause. They, of course, went through the entire verification procedure, gaining access, receiving a security clearance. Others, in turn, have been verified by a proxy for the protection of classified information, which has full authority to assess whether any threat to the security of the state poses such a threat. So this is another attempt, this is another proposal for verification, which is in this law, after verification carried out earlier in respect of all those who serve in the diplomatic service, carried out or, as I said, by the Internal Security Agency for the griffin of secrecy, or by a proxy for the protection of classified information to the lower griffons.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u255	Thank you very much. You're asking Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u256	Thank you very much. I have a question about a similar scope. Namely, 33 years have passed since 1989. Foreign servants, and rightly, were subjected to research, control, as the senator has already said. Those who have worked loyally, effectively for the Polish state over the years... If there is such a legislative initiative, however, I understand that it is called into question whether the drafters of the law undermine their loyalty, competences, etc. Have examples of such situations been given? That's one thing. Secondly, if they were, were the consequences also drawn, because in that case it would have to be argued that the control procedures were carried out incompetently. Is there any impact on the control authorities, including the competent authorities, e.g. the A.B.W., etc.? Because if you wanted to support this weird bill, you'd have to find some genesis, some ratio legis of this bill, and I don't see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u257	Mr. Senator, there is actually one additional justification that you have given to the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr.Wawrzyk, saying that, in view of the current geopolitical situation, it is necessary to introduce, and I quote, additional criteria for verification and confirmation of the competences of the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I mean, I don't find any other justification in the work report from this committee meeting that would be the reason for this next verification mechanism.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u258	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u259	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I don't know if you remember, but at some point, we were looking into it. I think it was still in that term. . issues related to the elections. And then you attacked in a way, too. That's what I said then. . Foreign service à opos implementation of the electoral code, and as a basis for this statement of the attacker, you gave Facebook. I was saying that at this level we shouldn't have a Facebook policy. So I would ask you to specify exactly what sources outside the Internet or, let's say, the social Internet you can give to confirm this thesis you gave. And if you don't have these sources, don't you think you've gone a little overboard? Some sources, for example. NIK checks, any supervisory appearances...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u260	Well, there's a big difference between us, Mr. Senator, but I have a feeling she's referring to the whole thing, not just this bill. Today, however, the Internet is one of the main sources of knowledge. I encourage you to upgrade and use the Internet. And that's exactly what I'm talking about right now and I was talking about at the committee meeting, i.e. to assess the fact that I quote some of myself from memory Our offices have become more travel agencies than diplomatic offices. I encourage you to read their websites. [[If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u261	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u262	I am indeed an old-fashioned man... [[Oh!]] ...and I think... I don't feel like that's an insulting term. Or old-fashioned. And I think that if a forum such as the Senate says certain things, it should be said not to quote in a precise way, but at least to give sources outside of the Internet. You can't give these sources, you're running into some anecdotes... That's the answer that proves you, so modern.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u263	Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u264	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Senator, in your report, you did not mention the opinion of the Senate Legislative Office. What was the opinion? And were there any comments from the Legislative Bureau on this amendment?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u265	In this opinion, which was presented by a representative of the Legislative Office, there were no critical opinions. It was a positive opinion on this amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u266	Senator Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, this is another change in the foreign service bill. I would like to ask what extent the changes took place after the adoption of the previous one, in particular concerning the scale of persons admitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the posts created by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for those who do not have diplomatic powers, these traditional, standard diplomatic powers, are not diplomats and yet work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u268	That wasn't the case, Senator. It wasn't the committee. Although the changes introduced by the new Foreign Service Act itself were also the subject of this House's deliberations, they were revolutionary in terms of the shape of our diplomacy, and we had the opportunity not only to listen to it, but also to read and express ourselves. I refer to this discussion because this discussion is still valid.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u269	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u270	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, I would like to ask if you spoke at the committee's address... Because the bill says you're gonna put out your relationship with your employees. Did you analyze this bill from the point of view of the so-called. appeal procedure? Did you analyze the fact that it's hard to talk about appeal? Because what is different is the appeal procedure in which the employee stays in the employment relationship until the appeal is considered, and what else is indicated here is the possibility for the citizen to go to court after that employment relationship has ceased. Have you analysed this from the point of view of breaching the general provisions of labour law and the risks arising from it, as well as in the context of constitutional matters, equality of all relations?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u271	This subject, Mr. Senator, was noted, but it was not subject to any further analysis. However, it was noted at the committee meeting that you mentioned in your question or in the extension of your question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u272	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I invite Mr Piotr Wawrzyk, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u273	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In my brief speech, I would like to refer to the discussion that took place at the committee meeting and to some of the points that have been raised by the rapporteur. With regard to the first issue that was raised here, I would point out that if we compare the number of diplomatic degrees under the previous law, namely the one at the beginning of our century or the millennium, to the number of degrees that we introduce in this law, it will turn out that this number of degrees does not change. It doesn't change, contrary to what the Senator rapporteur said. Yes, we are de facto eliminating one degree, only the problem is that earlier, in this last year's law, we added one diplomatic degree, so in relation to this one, one can say. the original law does not change the number of diplomatic degrees. The second point that I think is important, in connection with the work of the committee... This is a reference to this question that Senator Swede has allowed himself to ask. I would point out that we have some duality, we have two different answers from the Senator rapporteur to this question. At the committee meeting and at the end of the committee meeting, the Senator President said that he had this information from his fellow senators and that he would give it to me as soon as he received it from the senators and today he is talking about websites. I'll leave that to the High Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u274	Thank you very much, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's request to a government representative. So please, Minister, stay on the stand. Following the item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u275	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I'd just like to establish facts here, not talk about confabations. I mean, would I call it, such signals have come to you, I understand that you are in a sense overseeing the foreign service, which would give you sumptuousness to define our foreign offices in such a way? Were there, for example? any formal checks in this regard? Were any formal, signed, addressed speeches addressed to you in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u276	No, we didn't hear those voices. There was no information about the way Senator President said it would be. Some Polish institutions have become a kind of travel agencies. No one used such a statement in the objections raised by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in any way. This is the first time I've heard of this at the committee meeting. And, as I said, this was due to the information that Mr President received from his fellow senators, and today it turns out that he received this information from the Internet.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u277	Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u278	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. In fact, Senator Czerwiński gave me a bit of a heads-up on that question. I wanted to ask the Minister, too. At the same time, I would like to ask if there were any press releases, any press releases, as the rapporteur suggested here. I ask because I have not noticed in the press any such article in which Polish diplomatic services would be insulted in this way.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u279	Yes, it is also offensive to me, because the role of Polish diplomatic institutions is in no way to act as travel agencies. I think that the wording was reprehensible, all the more so because it fell out of the mouth of the chairman of the committee responsible for the Senate.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u280	Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u281	I'm gonna have two questions right away. The first question is to the Minister. In the explanatory memorandum of this bill we read about carrying out another verification of a particular group of employees. Which is why I'd like to ask you how many of these employees will be covered by the bill... First of all, what kind of group is this? Secondly, how many of these employees did not pass the extended investigation procedure providing access to classified information? Well, then, of course, that would be the basis for some concern. So, how much do you think this amendment will cover? And how many people in this group today have failed to go through an extended investigation procedure that gives access to classified information?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u282	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u283	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! To answer questions, I'm going to start by saying that the law applies to 38 people, so many people are subject to the rules we're talking about in terms of education, because I understand that's what the senator meant. The second element, the answer to the second question. I'm paying attention to this. Mr. Senator, as an important public servant, probably knows this. That the verification procedure ends with the issue of a document, but for a certain period of time, I stress, for a certain period of time. None of these documents, whether concerning access to classified or classified information, shall be issued indefinitely. This document shall be valid for 5 years or 7 years. Therefore, if the conduct of the person was carried out, let us assume, 10 years ago, that person, despite the passing of this procedure, is no longer in existence at the moment. One more thing... Thank you very much for this question, because it will allow me to answer one more question that came here. It is not true that all employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are under investigation only those who, due to the position taken, must have access to the information of a particular category, undergo such proceedings. I would like to stress once again that it is not that... at the committee's expert's hearing, there was such a charge, the question of why this procedure, since all the employees are going through this procedure. That's not true. Only those who have to have access to classified or classified information to perform specific duties in the performance of their duties shall have access to classified information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u284	Thank you very much. The senator wants to ask, right?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u285	Yes. The Minister, I see, has a deeper knowledge... We're talking about exactly 38 people. The question is, how many people in this group 38 have an outdated certificate today. And then there's the second question. I won't have to speak again unless the marshal thinks... [[Please.]] I would like to ask if it is not so that the fundamental difference that this new law introduces is that... Because currently, when issuing the certificate, the appeal procedure is adopted first to the Prime Minister and then to the Supreme Administrative Court. In the case of the procedure that you are now proposing, there is no such mode, because the employment relationship automatically expires, as I have already pointed out. This employment relationship is resolved and only then, as you suggest, after its termination can the employee benefit from a certain mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u286	You're welcome, Minister:
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u287	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, this is a normal procedure that applies to all employees. It's not about creating a special appeal procedure. Any employee, in accordance with the Labour Code, may appeal to the court against such a decision of his employer. And in this case, any employee will be able to do the same if on the basis of the so-called opinion. the external institution will be disbanded with it. He will be able to submit his claim to the labour court, and if the court confirms that this accusation or the lawsuit is justified, then, of course, the court may order the person concerned to return to work. So in this respect, you can say, we place foreign service workers, possibly those who will no longer be foreign service workers. . on an equal footing with other employees, other offices or other private institutions or companies in Poland. As for the first question you asked the senator, I'll say yes. On the day of the committee meeting it was, as I recall, 16 or 18 people. And I would like to point out that this might be a little out of date, because it's been a few days. Like I said, it's periodic. [[So from this group I was talking about, 16 or 18 employees don't have access to documents... did I get that right, Minister?]] But they don't all have to. Not everyone has to, because, as I said, only those who perform certain functions must have access.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u288	Minister, I'm sorry, but you misunderstood my question. I asked about those who didn't pass the procedure, and you answer me: we don't send someone, access has expired and he doesn't have to apply... That's not what I asked. To be precise, I asked who didn't pass the procedure.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u289	So we're talking about two categories of people. This number of 38 people, I'm sorry, Mr. Senator. In this situation, it will not be entirely up to date either. If you're talking about people who are required to testify right now... Well, there are no persons who do not have this certificate because the certification is required, it is a condition for admission to perform certain duties. So, if someone didn't have this permission, then, by all means, they couldn't have performed a certain function, so... [[Minister, that's exactly what I meant by what you said. So all these employees have been through background checks before. Thank you very much.]] Those from whom it is required today. [[Yes, sir.]] But I would like to point out that this law applies to a second category of people, i.e. people who will come to work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not just current employees.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u290	Thank you very much. Senator Jazlowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u291	Thank you very much. Minister! I am one of those senators who spoke with President Klich about the opinions we hear in various places concerning the tourist nature of the ministry. And I would like to ask you this because this is a very important signal that we heard at the committee meeting. As we know, every trip And business and non-service is very expensive. I'd like to ask if you were concerned about this signal. And have you therefore proposed to prepare a report? What does it look like to be monitoring trips to different countries in the ministry? Is it up-to-date? And are you predicting any special measures after this signal? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u292	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u293	Senator, I solemnly inform you in return that it is obvious. But apparently... The senator's question is that I have to say this straight away: neither employees nor outsiders go away for tourist purposes. MFA staff shall only travel for business purposes in the performance of their duties, within the scope of foreign service needs. So don't create a reality that doesn't exist. There is no situation that the employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are going to some country because they want to sunbathe on holiday, they want to visit a country. This is not what the Ministry of Foreign Affairs staff travels to other countries are for.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u294	Senator, I see she wants to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u295	The opinion that the Ministry has become a tourist office does not apply only to workers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u296	If you're all... Senator, if you have that kind of information, then I'm asking you to give it to me. I'm expecting you to hand them over now. There's nothing to prevent you from pointing out specific cases of this kind. If not, I will say the same thing as I said to the President: these are your suggestions that are not factual, they are merely insinuations, and to put it simply, they are not true. Unless you give specific examples of facilities. And the specific people who were traveling for tourist purposes in this way. [[Senator?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] But what opinion, Senator? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mrs. Senator, no one at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs officially declares this to you, there is no reason for you to... of course, but this letter will be the same. The employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs do not leave for tourist purposes and no one uses the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for tourist purposes. That's not what public administration is for. If you have such an attitude towards public administration, then I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u297	I think we've cleared things up here already. The senator will send the right letter, and then the Minister will be able to answer. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u298	There's a reality here without specifics, not substantive... But I'm gonna ask you a question. The impact assessment states that this amendment results from the need to adapt the catalogue of diplomatic degrees allocated to members of the foreign service of the Republic of Poland to the systems adopted in the legal order of other democratic countries, including the Member States of the European Union. Could the Minister refer to this? How do we adjust here? And will this adjustment be appropriate after this amendment? Will there be any further legal action in this regard?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u299	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, this is part of the justification for eliminating the attaché degree. There was also a discussion at the committee meeting. On the part of the expert of the committee, there was an argument that this kind of degree is e.g. in the Federal Republic of Germany. We have shown specifically that this is not true, because this degree is in the Federal Republic of Germany, but it does not apply to members of the foreign service of this country. It is a degree that is received by applicants, i.e. persons before employment in the foreign service. It is not appropriate for members of the foreign service. Of course, a separate issue is the position of the military attaché, because this is a completely different category.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u300	Thank you very much. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz:
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question. At the meeting of the Parliamentary Committee, the Minister also said that this amendment was intended to replace some of the inconvenient ones for the government in the foreign service. Of the 101 ambassadors, 90 have already been mentioned. Is this amendment really meant to be used to get rid of these uncomfortable people? That's how I understood what was going on in the Parliamentary Committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u302	Nothing, Senator, I didn't say anything at any committee meeting. [[Seymour's.]] I didn't use that phrase at the Parliamentary Committee meeting, I didn't say what you quoted. I didn't say it was supposed to be about removing someone from the service. [[27 people don't...]] It was the ambassadors. You said it was meant to serve...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u303	No, no. It wasn't about the ambassadors. I said that out of 101 ambassadors, there were 90 and 27 inconvenient... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Is that what I said?]] ...corporal officials... [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Piotr Wawrzyk: Is that what I said? Inconvenient?]] ...who are inconvenient to the government... [[Minister, wait to finish the question.]] Okay, I have another question. Minister, tell me if today an ambassador can become an official who doesn't speak a foreign language.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u304	I answer the first question: I did not use the word "uncomfortable." I said... [[Okay, I'll check it out. Maybe it was a similar word.]] Well, then I'm asking you to make a distinction. [[I'm sorry if I messed up. You can correct my statement.]] I didn't use that phrase. In answer to the question asked by my fellow Members, I gave concrete figures, which were the result of what was actually... [[And 27 people you want to replace, right? That's how I figured it out.]] No. [[Okay, good.]] I didn't use that phrase either. I didn't say we wanted to replace someone.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u305	Then I'm sorry if I made a mistake. Maybe I misunderstood. And one last question. I will refer to this travel agency and to the statements of Senator Czerwinski, who said I was using old methods. I quickly searched the Internet and found, for example, a commentary by Jack Pawlicki, an editor who writes about a travel agent, an institute for getting up from his knees, a museum of former greatness. The last experienced diplomats lose their jobs or are sent to the archives of the Ministry. Careers and sweats of people at the heights of power are waiting for nominations. There's a grave silence in the headquarters building in Shucha Avenue. Cats are spreading in the offices. Well, I'm not gonna read anymore. I'm just saying there's a lot of that on the Internet. All you have to do is look. I'm not going to quote because time isn't enough, but of course I can send links or show you where to find it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u306	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u307	I would like to point out that the senator has failed to give specific examples of places that have become travel agencies. What you were talking about wasn't about that complaint about the facilities as travel agents. [[I'm just quoting. In the media space, such information appears, and the details actually...]] I'm asking for such information... [[Thank you.]] ...about specific facilities. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal. I've been replaced here.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u308	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, I have a favor to ask of you. Well, don't embarrass yourselves any further, at least in this respect. Let's have a substantive discussion, because it's a disgrace. Don't you notice that? Either you have such examples or you don't have them. If you don't have it, stop it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the impression that there's a thesis here all the time that there's no concrete evidence. I think we're standing still. I don't think there's any point in continuing this, so please ask questions on another matter. Mr. Senator Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u311	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, if I understand correctly, you asked me to say that this bill is needed, among other things. because not all employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have passed this verification or not all of them have passed it repeatedly. In any case, it seems to me that such verification is possible without the adoption of a new law. In that case, I would like to make sure: does the employer, the management of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not have the authority to apply to the Homeland Security Agency, to verify, to check a specific employee? I don't think we need to make a bill for this. Am I wrong? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u312	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u313	I would like to point out that this statement applies to persons who perform managerial functions in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or in institutions. In other words, the practice is as follows. If someone after the application is admitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, then it does not need to be verified as you say. It doesn't come under official authority. At the time of entering the service, they do not immediately gain access to classified or top secret information, and therefore they do not go through this procedure. This procedure occurs at a time when his professional path is developing in this direction which I have said, i.e. when it starts or has the ability to act as a manager. Only then does he receive this certification for a certain period of time. If, after a few years, he ceases to perform a function... In any case, the certificate shall expire after the period for which it is issued. If, at the time of that expiry, he does not perform a function requiring that certification, there is no need to repeat this procedure. In other words, the new document is only obtained when it wishes to perform the functions for which such a procedure is required.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u314	Thank you very much. The senator wants to ask. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u315	Minister, I'm sorry, you said a lot, but you didn't answer. At least I didn't understand. I asked if a bill was necessary to apply for an employee verification. I mean, if we don't pass this bill, will the management not be able to, will the employer not be able to apply to the services for verification of employees? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u316	Where necessary, there will be an appearance... [[So you don't need a bill to do that?]] Where necessary, there will be an appearance, but not... I draw your attention to the fact that I am talking about this in connection with my duties. Necessary, I used the word "necessary" or related to the performance of functions. With this law, any person who is currently not required to carry out this procedure will undergo this procedure despite failure to perform the function for which it is required. That's the first one. In other words, we're talking about this opinion from the Internal Security Agency, because this is the verification element, let's call it that. And the second category I was talking about just now. People who come to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs start their work at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will also be checked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u317	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you very much, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u318	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! The essence of the PiS government is that it fails to solve the problems that it created. This bill is another confirmation of this rule, because it is really about three cases. The first is the abolition of the degree of attaché, of which the Minister spoke at the committee meeting. Today, he did not repeat what should be commended, because that means that the Minister is following the President's words and is still learning that he has only stayed in post-communist countries, that he is connected with the post-communist tradition. You were undoubtedly confronted by one of the most experienced diplomats of the last thirty years, the title ambassador Tomasz Orłowski, who rightly stated that the degree of attaché existed also in interwar Poland, which as a lively communist or post-communist. That's the first one. Point two. This bill says you can release someone from foreign service who will twice refuse to go to the facility. I can honestly say that if certain clear criteria are included in these provisions I would support them, because the real essence of diplomacy is that the diplomat gains sands, experience in other countries, whether in bilateral relations in embassies, or in delegations with international institutions. However, this provision in its currently proposed form is so arbitrary that it is, in fact, appropriate to suspect that it is only a matter of increasing the supervision of employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, members of the Foreign Service by the political management of the Ministry. 'Cause if it was there, for example. it is said that this person cannot refuse twice in two years or three years, it would make sense, because it would mean that this person permanently does not want to go anywhere, and if he does not want to serve the Republic in this way, let him find another ministry, not one where the work is immanently connected with travel abroad. However, you can imagine absolutely justified refusals in the course of e.g. 2 months, 4 months, associated e.g. with this person's illness or someone close to him or a child's graduation This kind of random, lifelike circumstances can be mentioned, and this refusal in the case of 2 reminders at short intervals may be the reason for firing someone from foreign service. This is absolutely unwarranted. But really the most absurd reason why this law was created is, of course, the third point, which, as we have learned thanks to the question of Senator Kwiatkowski, concerns actually 16 or 18 people, because all others have certifications. Let us be clear that what Mr Wawrzyk and other representatives of the foreign affairs department have said in recent weeks was about MGIMO graduates. Well, every graduate of MGIMO in the last 30 years or more than 30 years of independent Rzeczpospolita has been checked by Polish special services, Polish security services, and actually for 20 years, since the reform of these services, by the ABW. And this law is an act of distrust towards these services, including those services operating in the last almost 7 years, which are under the supervision of Minister Kaminski. It must be made clear: the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the government of Mr Morawiecki express this act of distrust towards the coordinator of special services, minister, Mr Kaminski, because it is his, subordinate to his service, i.e. the ABW, has constitutionally and legally registered counterintelligence protection of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This bill is unnecessary, this bill is an example of mixing teaspoon with tea without any purpose. In the justification, in what the representatives of the Ministry have said, it has repeatedly been said that this law is necessary because of the attack, the shameful assault of Russia on Ukraine. The fact that someone studied in the 1980s, and there are also cases that at the turn of the 1980s and 1990s, in the Moscow MGIMO, which, for example. is internationally recognised as one of the best language schools, of course it increases the potential reasons why Polish services should X-ray such a person, especially when he is in a managerial position. Speaking of which, these people were in managerial positions, both in the Ministry and in institutions, also during the times of the PiS government, it is necessary to make it clear, only that these people have been X-rayed for the last 30 years, also for the last almost 7 years. So what's the bill for? This is a pure propaganda hump made to show: ah, we do, we increase security at a time when, in reality, the security of our region is reduced by Russia. Well, I have a simple advice for you from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. If you really want to increase Poland's security after Russia's aggression against Ukraine, first of all, within the government, start lobbying for what we in the Senate for, for which we in the Civil Coalition and the Civic Platform have been lobbying for three months: for withdrawing from a completely absurd transaction with the Hungarian MOL, whose government wants to give a significant part of Lotus. And the Hungarian MOL is a company about which your former minister, Mr Piotr Woźniak, says that he is the front, the forpost of Russian Gazprom. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u319	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden, Gromko, Szejnfeld, Komarnicki, Godyla, Świlski, Tyszkiewicz and Jazłowiec have made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. Does a government representative still want to speak? Thank you very much. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and some other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 698 and the report of the Commission In print No 698 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Senator Richard Bober, to submit a report to the committee and to present a proposal for minorities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u320	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would like to submit a report to the committee on the Act amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and some other laws concerning a very important and very important area and consequently the production of safe food. Indeed, the first part of all laws refers to this... I would like to remind you that these are laws that adapt our legislation to the regulations of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe, as well as adapt and update certain areas. These areas are very important throughout food production, starting with the production and surveillance of feed production, through the whole livestock treatment area, here we are talking about the use of antibiotics. Another area concerns the surveillance of slaughter of animals and those difficult elements which are and which require disposal. The next area, which is very important and important, already concerns pets, is very clear about the area concerning the transport of pet animals for non-commercial purposes. It's all very detailed here. In this area, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development proposes that the High House adopt 5 amendments. And the last very important area I want to draw attention to is the vet's profession. And in this area, indeed... This was brought in during the second reading in the Seym. I have made amendments, which are amendments to the minority. This is a very important topic, and it is said that there is simply a procedure for vets to improve their qualifications in some way. At the moment, it seems that the whole procedure is run by universities, as well as by the State Institute of Veterinary Studies in Puławy, but the whole procedure for the appointment of committees and members of these committees, as well as the issue of qualifications, are assigned to the Institute in Puławy, assigned to the Institute in Puławy. The veterinary authority, and in fact the National Veterinary and Medical Chamber, has reservations about certain wordings contained in this area. The proposals, which have been submitted as minority proposals, clarify the whole procedure for setting up a committee and putting the documentation into the hands of the medical authority. They also specify a very important element, i.e. the issue of appeal in the event of a veterinarian not qualifying for the process of raising his calibrations. Yesterday, the Minister was surprised by the amendments tabled. I think that today it will address the issues that have been raised at the committee meeting. On behalf of the committee, I ask for the adoption of 5 amendments which do not raise any objections, as well as the amendments tabled by the minority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u321	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Swede. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u322	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like to ask you something because I didn't catch it in the report. I understand that the entry into force of the proposed regulation will not have any financial implications for the public finance sector, and the regulation itself results from the need to adapt Polish law to EU regulations. But I would like to ask if the committee meeting discussed the impact this regulation and proposed solutions will have on large agricultural enterprises and on micro, small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u323	Of course, they will have an impact on the whole system of functioning in this area. I would like to draw attention to the fact that this amendment also causes... She assumes that different bodies work together over the entire production space of safe food. This also applies to the Ministry of Finance. Some issues must simply be identified in the arrangements. This also applies to the entire system... I'm talking about KAS, and more precisely customs and customs-treasure offices, which also in the case of certain elements... For example, in situations where it is clarified who is responsible, whether the border doctor or the county doctor... This was explained in detail at the committee meeting yesterday. Of course, the fees resulting from all the activities carried out by the Veterinary Inspection are agreed with the Ministry of Finance by the Minister of Agriculture. It's from the price list.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u324	The senator would like to ask you a few more questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u325	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, as I said, this regulation results, among others. from the adoption of a Regulation of the European Parliament and of a Commission Delegated Regulation. I would like to ask if the committee meeting was discussed how it is in other countries of the European Union. Are these regulations and acts already ratified or not?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u326	There were no such conversations. I think the Minister, who is here with his colleagues, is able to answer these questions. They're very precise. The subject we are currently discussing at the Senate is also very specific. I don't think my knowledge is so broad that I can answer that question precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u327	You're still Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u328	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! I don't want to bother you because it's a detail, but it can be meaningful to those who listen to us, to non-farmers. It's about pets. Is this about our pets? Something's changing over there. How important are these changes when it comes to caring for these animals?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u329	This changes in the area of transport for non-commercial purposes. If someone with his own pet crosses the border, he must have all the health certificates, his passport, as well as all the documents that are required. This also applies to livestock, where the electronic registration system will be piloted. In this area, decisions on disputes which suddenly appear at the border crossing point and require ongoing response shall be taken in agreement between the veterinarian and the customs office, but the final decision shall be taken by a representative of the customs office in this area. It's about whether an animal can travel further or not, if it's okay, because different situations can happen. Whether it's in air transport or rail transport... We do not anticipate all situations, and the necessary issues must be settled on an ongoing basis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u330	Thank you very much. That was the last question. Thank you, Senator. [[Thank you.]] The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? I invite Minister Lech Kołakowski, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u331	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The draft law was designed to ensure the application of the rules and to adapt to these provisions of Polish law. This is an important, very expected solution. The aim is to ensure the application of Regulation 2017/625 on official controls and Regulation 576 on non-commercial movements of animals... The proposed law also responds to other problems or expectations. The draft provides for the amendment of the laws on Veterinary Inspection, on animal health protection and the fight against infectious animal diseases, on the system for the identification and registration of animals, on products of animal origin, on feedingstuffs, on food safety and nutrition, on the levy. At the same time, it is proposed to repeal the laws on veterinary border control and veterinary checks in trade. The proposed law includes, among others,: determining the tasks and competences of national authorities in the application of Regulation 625 in the area of animal health and the safety of products of animal origin and food contained in agricultural retail trade; determining the amount of fees for official controls and other official activities carried out by the Veterinary Inspection using the possibility provided for in the Regulation to introduce national rules for the levying of a lower amount on certain operators; allowing slaughter on a holding of bovine animals aged 12 months or less in the context of the production of meat for own use only for bovine animals up to the sixth month of age; authorising food business operators, under certain conditions, to separate meat from head in bovine animals and to remove the spinal cord of ovine and caprine animals; creating an electronic book of treatment of animals that ensures that full information on the use of medicinal products is available for official controls in animals from which or from which food is obtained. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the Sejm passed a law at its fifty-third meeting on 28 April this year. 439 Members voted in favour of the bill, no votes against and 11 Members abstained. All parliamentary clubs of the Polish Sejm supported this presentation. With regard to the committee's meeting, the Senate's agricultural committee yesterday, I will say, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, that the government supports all 5 amendments tabled at the committee's meeting yesterday. With regard to the rapporteur's comments on the issue of minority proposals, I will say: the minority proposals are not supported by the government. I'd like to justify that. The amendments presented differ significantly from the concept of specialised training of veterinarians adopted in the Act, changing it to a disadvantage in terms of ensuring a high level of training of veterinarians. As I have pointed out, the government does not support such solutions. Amendment 1, acceptance for specialization training and appeal procedure. The Commission for the Specialization of Veterinary Doctors is currently deciding on admission to specialization training. The amendment seeks to delegate basic powers in this respect to the panel within this committee, adding the appeal path in the form of the possibility of appealing the panel's decision to the full composition of that committee. Such a solution seeks to limit the competence of the committee to its internal body, which is the team. Such a solution leads to excessive formalisation and extension of the entire recruitment process. The criteria for admission to specialisation training are clearly defined and do not leave room for abuse. The veterinarian, who will not be qualified for a given training course, may also apply for training organised by another entity, especially since the powers to conduct specialization training have both public universities conducting master's studies in the veterinary field as well as the State Veterinary Institute of the State Research Institute in Puławy. At this point, it should be pointed out that the law extends significantly the scope of the bodies authorised to provide such training. From now on it will be as many as 8 entities. In the current legal state, which amends this Act, such training may be provided by only five entities. Therefore, the risk of refusing to accept specialized training is minimal. To sum up, the amendment is not justified. Amendment No 2 - Specialization costs. The amendment aims to grant additional competence to the Specialisation Committees in order to lay down rules for the carrying and sharing of the costs of specialisation in a given veterinary area. The reasons for the amendment do not indicate why such regulation is necessary. The author uses the generals without indicating the substance of the problem to be solved. At present, this matter is not regulated under applicable law, and the explanatory memorandum does not specify precisely why such a change needs to be made. [[Cell phone signal]] I'm sorry. Notwithstanding this, the proposed amendment could cause excessive interference by committees in the rights and obligations of specialised training providers, including universities, which as such are autonomous in their activities. To sum up, this amendment is also not justified. Amendment No 3 - the composition of the specialization committees and examination teams. The amendment narrows down the possibility for professionals to participate in the work of the committee, which may be important for the level of specialisation training. In addition, the local authority of veterinary surgeons shall decide on the designation of the person concerned as a candidate for membership of the committee. Thus, the government will have a fundamental impact on the composition of this committee. If the person concerned does not provide a guarantee of a high level of specialisation training, the local authority may decide not to recommend this candidacy. As regards the composition of the examination teams, the proposed amendment limits the possibility of participating in the work of the examination teams of specialists from the area concerned. The requirements laid down in the amendment shall fully protect a person who does not have the required qualifications from becoming a member of the examination team. This provision sets out in addition to the requirement to have a doctoral degree that a member of the examination team should be specialised in a given veterinary field and that his candidacy should be submitted by a higher education institution conducting specialization training. It should be assumed that universities will report to the examination teams primarily to persons conducting specialized training courses. Veterinary sciences are linked to other fields of science and it cannot therefore be excluded that scientific research or teaching activities at a university in areas covered by specialisation training will be carried out by non-veterinary physicians who have, however, specialist veterinary knowledge and skills. To sum up, this amendment is also not justified. Amendment 4 - meeting of the Specialization Committee, conducting specialization examinations and keeping a register of veterinarians who have obtained the title of specialist. In fact, the amendment seeks to take over the competence for the organisation and handling of committee meetings, as well as for examinations by the National Veterinary and Medical Council. Currently, these competences are, as a rule, owned by PIWet in Puławy. It should be noted that in PIWet in Puławy there is a specialized Veterinary Postgraduate Training Centre, which has been specifically created and used, among others. for the above purposes. There is no justification for changing this model, all the more so as this could lead to an unpredictable increase in the costs of specialization training borne by veterinarians. In turn, the proposal to make public the data of veterinarians who have obtained a professional title is incompatible with the rules for the processing of personal data laid down in Regulation 2026/67 of the European Parliament on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and on the free movement of such data and repealing Directive 95/46 GDPR regulation. So that, in summary, this amendment is also not a valid amendment. Amendment 5 - Specialization costs. The inclusion of this amendment would in fact lead to the burden on veterinarians participating in specialization trainings of the costs of keeping a register of veterinarians who have obtained the title of specialist by the National Veterinary Medical Council. Furthermore, the proposal for a provision is incompatible with the rule of law in so far as it concerns fees for specialised training providers. On the basis of this provision, it is not possible to determine any elements of the legal structure of these charges. In conclusion, the amendment should not be taken into account. Amendment 6 - Legislative authorisation. Amendment incompatible with the system of sources of law laid down in the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and with §74 principles of legislative technique. Only the authority empowered to issue regulations may submit an application to the Minister who may issue a regulation. Therefore, the submission of an application by the National Veterinary Medical Council, as proposed in the amendment, is unacceptable. The Council, which is not an entity which, in accordance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, is entitled to issue regulations implementing the law, cannot have a decisive influence on the exercise of powers to issue such a regulation. This amendment seeks to do so. In conclusion, this amendment should also not be taken into account. Amendment 7 - adaptation provisions. The proposal for the wording of the Article contained in the amendment. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 the Act aims at early termination of the term of office of the current members of the Committee on the Specialization of Veterinary Physicians. This proposal should be rejected in view of the value of the Commission's stable and continuous performance of its tasks for the Specialization of Veterinary Doctors, as well as the certainty and stability of participants in ongoing specialisation training. This is particularly important in view of the fact that, particularly in 2020, the provision of these trainings was difficult due to COVID-19. Furthermore, shortening the term of office of the committee during its term of office may be considered contrary to the principles of a democratic rule of law. It should also be noted that the proposal for the wording of the Article contained in the amendment. Article 12 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Act is contrary to Article. 13 Act amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and certain other laws, which provides that cases concerning the acquisition of a professional title by a veterinarian, including the performance of diplomas confirming the acquisition of a professional title by a veterinarian, initiated and not completed before the date of entry into force of the Act, apply to the existing provisions. In conclusion, the amendment should not be taken into account. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, in conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the government supports the amendments tabled and, as far as minority proposals are concerned, proposes that they be rejected. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u332	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There are no volunteers. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Lech Kołakowski: Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor... [[Voices from the room: There is no...]] Since there are no senators... [[Secretary of State in the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Lech Kołakowski: I would like to speak.]] But I'm sorry, in what mode, Minister? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Lech Kołakowski: After the discussion.]] In the debate, the Minister cannot speak. I'm sorry. I would like to inform you that there are no senators in the discussion. I inform you that the following senators made their speeches to the minutes: Alexander Szwed, Janusz Gromek, Janusz Pęcherz, Benjamin Godyla, Ryszard Świlski, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Wadim Tyszkiewicz. Does a government representative still want to speak? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development Lech Kołakowski: Now not.]] Not now. Thank you kindly. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held... I'm sorry. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. The text of the Act is contained in print No 699 and the Commission's reports in print No 699 A and No 699 B. I would ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u333	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to report on behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. Yesterday we discussed the law on the amendment of the Social Insurance Act for farmers. Following a thorough analysis, the Commission proposes to adopt a law without amendments. During the discussion at the committee meeting, attention was paid to the positive effects that would result in the proposed solutions. These solutions have been repeatedly reported by organisations, trade unions and agricultural chambers, as well as by my union, the agricultural union.Solidarity. He proposed, to be precise, that he acted with legislative proposals showing that the solutions contained in the current law are incompatible with constitutional law, because everyone working and having their work workshop can continue to work, does not have to liquidate his workshop, and the farmer had to pass on the farm, cannot work on his own farm. Hence such a debate, it has been going on since 2017. Thanks for finally making such a decision and in this amendment of the law granted the possibility that farmers who are entitled to retirement may benefit from retirement without having to... They can transfer the farm, it's obvious, but they don't have to transfer it, especially as fewer and fewer farmers are in the country, there are less and less willing to take over the farm. Therefore... those pensions that are allocated are agricultural pensions at a minimum level, which can be said to be an pension. almost the lowest possible. Therefore, the farmer should also be able to refine himself on his farm if he wishes to, but should not be forced to do so. There is also a solution that shows that farmers who have so far had no right to use sanatoriums or rehabilitation centres who have already retired... At the moment we allow it and farmers will be able to use these rehabilitation centers as active farmers. Rehabilitation is a very important element, so that we have this generation older healthier, not sicker. Well, it's known that farmers who retire often get worked up. So far, they have been deprived of the possibility of rehabilitation in the institutions that lead the KRUS, in rehabilitation centers. It's gonna come in next year, but it's already in that bill. We are very positive about this solution. Yesterday at the committee meeting there were also discussions about an unfair system of valorization. This case is often raised. When the valorization was quantitatively-percent, they all received, for example, 70 zł plus, possibly, after crossing... But that's never happened in KRUS. And those examples of 70 zlotys had. Now it's converted by the so-called. minimum and this comes out differently 15, 18, 20 zł. It's often 2.5.3% Depending on the amount of the pension in KRUS. That's why the request... Prime Minister Kowalczyk has committed himself to working on the other part, which... This is ongoing, it is in progress, it is currently being prepared. The point is to improve this valorization, adjust to what is currently in force in the ZUS. Everyone's counting that percentage from their pension, not from their minimum. There was a request at the committee meeting, and we have repeatedly pointed out that, Minister, we are calling for it. Farmers ask us all the time in our offices why you did it, why... Well, the translation is simple. So far, there has been a quota-percent valorization, so for many years farmers have not felt it at all, because they had these examples of 70 zlotys, and at the moment they have 15 or 18 zlotys, depending on what kind of... And they feel hurt. Hence the request to amend, amend as soon as possible. And that was very much discussed at the committee meeting. That's it. And a request on behalf of the committee to adopt the bill without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u334	Thank you very much, Senator. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to present a report to the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u335	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Today was the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, where the Act on the amendment of the Social Insurance Act of farmers was discussed, Senate printing No 699. My previous speaker, Senator Chróścikowski, mentioned two things that were raised in the amendment of the bill. It remains to me to add that there is another matter concerning the possibility of including in the amount of the contribution part of the agricultural pension the periods of active military service in the Polish Army or its equivalent periods or the replacement periods of the forms of this service, which were prior to 1 January 1999. And that's the third thing I wanted to say. The two previous Senator Chróścikowski has already spoken of. And one more thing, rehabilitation... But you've already told the senator. I think that's it. So that what I said, and what my previous speaker said, is connected, Mr. Marshal, all in all. At the family committee meeting there was no discussion, the legislators did not make any comments. In the vote, eight senators were behind the bill. Therefore, I kindly ask the High Senate to adopt this law in this form. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u336	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to both Senators. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Bladder. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u337	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think the senator will answer that question. I don't think I need to ask Senator Chróścikowski... Was there a speech at the committee meeting... The Senator rapporteur spoke about the matter of some sort of valorization that should be done, and that the ministry, according to the senator, is working on it. Has there been any mention of a minimum pension, which is within the range of PLN 1 000 300, a little over? Are we working on it or not? Or was it said that the government is working to raise the minimum, and then the compensation will be higher? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u338	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I think that this question will be more to Senator Chróścikowski, because I said earlier that there was no discussion at the family committee meeting, no discussion, so we did not discuss it either.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u339	By force. [[Yes, by all means.]] Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Chróścikowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u340	Well, I have to say, Mr. Senator, that the agricultural committee has dealt with these issues many times, we have raised these problems. Prime Minister Kowalczyk has repeatedly pointed out this in new solutions that are being prepared, for example. KRUS contributions are uneven, there are those who pay a double contribution, there are those who pay higher rates for 50 ha, 100 ha, 200, 300. So it is also prepared, as the Prime Minister, Minister Kowalczyk mentioned, if any, to value them, it is taken into account. Will this be adopted soon? The Prime Minister declared that such measures would be taken to depend on the amount of the pension. And I've already mentioned the valorization case. But, well, we can't really say that we want to raise pensions as high as the government says because of the finances. Farmers pay a small part of the contribution, the largest contribution is paid by the state budget. This is the problem of funding from the state budget. This is, as I recall, 16 billion pension grants to the KRUS and additional funds are for so-called. insurance, because the insurance of farmers with up to 6 hectares is exempt, it is about health insurance, and only over 6 hectares are charged a zloty per hectare. These are large subsidies from the state budget and I am not surprised that we often have difficulties with the budget, how to obtain even greater subsidies from the state budget. Of course, as often as the Minister here and earlier ministers have said, it is possible to raise, but it would only be necessary to raise the contribution of the KRUS several times. So this is the biggest problem, the question of paying pensions. Employees are paid on capital, we have paid this almost minimal, because the state budget does not want to pay any more, and often the senators, most of them resent and ask why so many billions are added to the CRUs. Therefore, we have such difficulty and I understand the government here. But also recently there was such a problem that the daily rate was 10 zlotys, at the moment it was raised, but at the same time the health contribution was raised, from the so-called. a contribution fund. Therefore, if we want more, we have to pay more. There's often a question... The Council of Farmers, which is in the KRUS, makes it clear that it is not very acceptable to raise rates, raise fees, i.e. contributions, and therefore there is no means to pay higher benefits, e.g. For every day of illness. I give these examples to show that this is closely related to the revenue that KRUS has and the budget of the country that supports it. The desire for support in our committee is always great, but the financial opportunities are often different, there is a contradiction here, which is why there is a lot of state aid here today, for which we thank you, because without this state aid, without the help of the budget, we would certainly not be able to pay benefits at such altitudes, certainly not from those contributions that farmers pay. And this is one of the ways that the government has been applying for a long time, because farmers are still not treated equally in the Union. It is therefore one of the support schemes which not directly but indirectly supports farmers' incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u341	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u342	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I, too, would like to address the question to Senator Chróścikowski. Mr. Senator, this amendment is very important, it goes against the demands of farmers, the demands that have also been made in my senator's office. I'd like to ask you about this part, so to speak, rehabilitation. In addition to those entitled to an agricultural pension, carers will also be able to benefit from such rehabilitation tours. Was there any mention at the committee meeting of how many eligible people would be here? These are both those entitled to agricultural pensions and carers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u343	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u344	Mr. Senator, there wasn't exactly such a detailed discussion. We understand that. Well, if that's a possibility, then we don't see any obstacles, no barriers, especially as far as I'm concerned. And we've talked many times about these rehabilitation centers. It appears that most of them are not exploited by farmers. These centres were made available for a fee to other institutions, also privately. That's what I've been told before. I can confirm that the so-called transformational possibilities. rehabilitation centres are large and therefore there should be no problem with the number of people admitted. In addition, as a contribution fund, KRUS is also involved in support of rehabilitation of children, organizing these trips of disabled children, children with defects. The KRUS organizes all this for the children of farmers. It also organizes colonies for children or rehabilitation during holidays, organizes winters, so that KRUS assistance is large in rural areas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u345	Thank you very much. Senator Bober. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u346	Yes, thank you very much. I would ask that the President raise the question of those two professionals who left in 1989 and do not have those quarters in the CRU. They were forced to move to the ZUS, and there they have a much smaller contribution period. We settled some ZUS law on women in the year 1953, and there were also such disparities. Unfortunately, this issue has not been considered positively. We talked about that, too.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u347	Well, there was a discussion. I myself presented the positions that came to the committee, the positions that said, for example. The victims feel like those born before 1948. Well, that earlier justification was that who had the opportunity to get a pension from the Social Security Office, and before that worked and had insurance at KRUS... It wasn't even a KRUS system yet, it was still a fund. Someone like that was getting half a farm pension, but this system was kind of interrupted. This was changed so that the born after 1948 was entitled to a full pension, but it was necessary to have a full period of 25 years. At that time, the pension was available. If you weren't 25, you couldn't get a pension. There's a discussion on this at the moment. There are proposals to change this system and give the possibility to merge, so that those years that are taken into account by the Social Security Office can be added to this so that such a person can have a pension. For example, someone had 2 or 3 years worked out there, and got a few pennies from the ZUS, because it could not be added to the KRUS. Therefore, such requests have been made and these requests are still valid. We understand that this system should be consistent, but of course no one can be excluded. The point is for a farmer to get money and KRUS and ZUS. He put money in there, put money in his pocket, and according to that, he should receive... But when he was 24 years old, he couldn't get an agricultural pension. This is a matter that needs to be discussed. That's the subject all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u348	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u349	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I have a question about that, I'd call it the overlap between ZUS and KRUS. Wouldn't it be better if... I don't know if this was even considered, we're gonna be asking the government. Isn't it better for the farmers who worked to be two professionals to choose which solution is better for them? Because right now, they're here, practically, very strict regulations, and there's no choice. I've done some of these interventions, which are related to it. And also during the introduction of the Polish Deal, the issue of collection of advances, etc. So the question is, what system are we really aiming at? Or to the most favorable for e.g. a two-professional, will this be strictly controlled, strictly defined by law?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u350	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u351	We farmers are very committed to having two systems, and we do not want to eliminate it. Many times there were proposals to eliminate the KRUS and introduce one ZUS system. This is not permitted by farmers. Such systems operate in France and other European countries. We believe that there must be a separate system, because in this case farmers would be very disadvantaged if we introduced them into a single system. Therefore, there is no consent to this and these systems are separate, there is one and the other system. In the French system, it is so that those who want to function in the so-called. The KRUS system only there is otherwise called "the possibility of combining this with business activities." It's not in Poland. But we have a record that in the case of doing business not exceeding a certain size you can still be in the KRUS system, only then you pay a double contribution. And it's like... But she doesn't have this benefit, there's no way to raise that person's pension because she paid double. Hence our conclusion that if someone pays twice, let them at least have a little higher pension, let it not be on such a principle that everyone is almost even and comes out almost minimum pension. That is why I have already mentioned this amount of aid from the state budget, because from our contributions we would never get such pensions because these contributions are not enough. The fact that you can have an extra pension with the ZUS is actually a big bonus. I know many farmers who have this proverbial pension plus take 500, 700 zlotys, which are from somewhere overpaid amounts resulting from the initial capital they collected. And here it has 1 thousand 100 zlotys, there it has 700 zlotys, so in total it already has 1 thousand 800. That's some kind of pensioner's allowance. It stays that way, and I think that's how it's supposed to work. Here is only a problem regarding the absence of Because up until now, if someone wasn't old enough, he could have gotten his internship years with the U.S.S. It was possible, but then it was within the range of 12 or 15 zlotys, I might be wrong. I mean, it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... That's where the funny money came out. I've got my pension so calculated myself, and I've got, like, two years there that count. That's funny money. There is virtually no consideration at all of how much it is from KRUS compared to the capital raised from ZUS. If that's the answer that pleases you, thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u352	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. Thank you very much to the rapporteurs. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Agriculture and Rural Development has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? You're welcome, Minister Kołakowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u353	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! What I'm trying to say, Mr. Marshall, is that we all have the satisfaction. This presentation meets the expectations of the Polish village. The project has been well prepared. From this point I would like to thank Members once again: 449 votes for, no one opposed, no one abstained from all clubs, circles who unanimously supported this submission. I would like to stress, Mr Marshal, that the Senate committees also unanimously supported this submission. The Polish government, the Polish parliament, we all meet these expectations. This is very necessary, expected submission and it will be well accepted by the Polish village. This is where the Polish state has proven itself. With regard to the issues of valorisation, I would like to say, Mr Marshal, High Izbo, that this is the subject of new projects related to valorisation, government activities related to the preparation of changes in the second half of the year. I hope that the value of farmers' benefits will apply from 1 January 2023. So that we meet expectations, too. In the discussion, although this is outside the scope of this law, it was about the entities, groups affected by the project. If the marshal would allow it, if there is such expectation, I would provide some data. Group: Farmers and households for which the possibility is created to carry out agricultural activities in parallel to holding a title to be insured under the general scheme On average, over the last 4 years, there have been around 1.5 thousand insured persons. Next group: insurance and persons entitled to an agricultural pension who will be able to apply for an increase in the amount of the contribution part of the agricultural pension, this is a group of 100,000 people. Another group: persons entitled to an agricultural pension with insurance, who will be able to benefit from rehabilitation tournaments, are 840 thousand 427 persons. Next: insured persons who are carers of disabled persons, who will be able to be directed towards regenerative turnouts to rehabilitation facilities 9 000 1 person. And last group: persons entitled to an agricultural pension who will receive full benefit without cessation of agricultural activity - 31 thousand 43 persons. This, Mr Marshal, is to fill in the votes in the discussion. Dear Marshal, High Izbo, please accept the submission. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u354	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Senator Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u355	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much, Minister. Thank you for this amendment, because this is indeed an expected amendment. Like I said, these farmers' demands were also addressed to my senator's office. I also thank the Minister for answering my earlier question to the rapporteur concerning the number of persons entitled to these rehabilitation turns. But I'm going to ask you again if you've been doing any analysis of what is going to be more or less the demand, how many applications for these tournaments are going to be made. How many farmers are going to benefit from these rehabilitation tournaments each year?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u356	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u357	If the senator would allow us, we would have given a precise written reply. [[Good.]] That'll be a precise answer. [[Good.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u358	Thank you. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u359	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, you yourself have raised the issue of the valorization of agricultural pensions and hence the question. Because this count, which is now written, is not entirely fair. The most recently announced valorization was 7%. But we do know that this valorization has made not all farmers get 7%. A lot of people got a lot less. As you say, you are preparing some bill that would be in force from 1 January 2023, and as you have just said, I assume that of course some work is already underway in the Ministry. So I would ask for some more information, because farmers expect this information very much. I'd ask us to take them seriously, so if you could say more today than suggest that the work is going on and give us the date of entry into force...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u360	Dear Marshal, Dear Senator, taking this question and the answer very seriously and, therefore, in order to be precise, I will say that this will be presented in the draft law. This is a very important issue, and it is not possible to provide precise information at the moment. Besides, this is not the subject of this law. I extended my speech, among others. the answer to the questions. There's work to be done, we meet expectations. This will benefit Polish farmers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u361	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u362	I, being satisfied that you have extended your speech, and thus having the opportunity to ask this question, without being satisfied with the level of detail, am convinced that, first of all, farmers are not satisfied, I ask for a written reply to the question on which principles this valorization will be prepared.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u363	Politely, please. The answer will be given. [[Thank you.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u364	Thank you, Minister. There are no more questions. I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Janusz Bubbler. [[No, I made...]] Oh, you have. I'm sorry. Senator Kwiatkowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u365	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! It is rare that we have the opportunity to talk about the problems of the village and the problems of Polish farmers in this room. And we are talking about an extremely important group, because, as we remember, with more than 38 million Poles formally in the countryside, there are more than 15 million in rural communities. Of course, this number is not a number that would talk about those who live on from agricultural activity, whether in whole or in part. This figure, of course, reflects the data of the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund in a better way. There are 1 million 134 thousand people insured in KRUS. 679 000 are farmers, the rest are mostly spouses and domestics. We must also remember Which I am also talking about with some embarrassment not to say: shame That average benefit, the average pension from the Agricultural Social Insurance Fund is, according to data from a month ago, 1 thousand 436 PLN and 36 gr. As the youth would say, there is no madness. This is a witness, to put it mildly, starving. What are we doing? So far, we've offered a group? We say this with absolute conviction, as a lawyer, we proposed unequal treatment of the farmer's citizen. Inequal treatment of the farmer's citizen. Because show me the second group where a retired employee... a person who is not a farmer can retire and continue to work, and we suggested to the farmer that he could only earn 1 thousand 300 PLN, and if he exceeded that amount, we suspended his benefit. What equality are we talking about? What, a citizen living in the country is a citizen of a worse God? And it's still in the height in which... This witness is, well, to say the least. I have no doubt that the rule in its current form has violated constitutional equality in relation to the law. I have no doubt that the rule in its current form has violated the right to social security in the context of equal employment. Why was the farmer treated worse than others who wanted to continue working after reaching retirement age, why in fact did we force him to pass the farm? And this is not a political statement, because I very much stress that, as in the Seym, everyone accepted this amendment, beyond the political divisions, so I hope that without amendments, we will adopt this law, including here in the Senate, to complete the work as soon as possible. That bill that's needed and expected. Ladies and gentlemen, Polish farmers have been waiting for this revision of the legislation since the creation of this system, i.e. for over 30 years. And it's a good thing we can finally sort things out today. We can sort these out in as many as four key areas. Firstly, a retired farmer will not have to stop farming in order to receive a full benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm sure many of us have come to the senators' offices with the saddest stories. Yeah, they used to happen, too. A person of senior age who was entitled to an agricultural pension decided to transfer the holding. The recipe in this shape caused the saddest circumstances. Sometimes it caused the relationship between those to whom the farm was transferred, i.e. in practice children and the father, the mother radically deteriorated at the time of the formal decision. That's why it's a very good solution. I'm not going to develop it. You may also know tragic examples, such stories about purely human relations. Talking to an older farmer who, with tears in his eyes, told me how surprised he was about how his children were when he made this decision, he'd probably stay in my memories forever. Secondly, the rule regulates issues related to the confluence of insurance titles from the agricultural social security system and insurance from the general social security system. Thirdly, the possibility is introduced to include in the amount of the contribution part of the agricultural pension periods of active military service in the Polish Army or equivalent periods. Fourthly, pensioners and farmers will have the possibility of healing rehabilitation in KRUS centres, and carers of disabled people Possibility to get redirected to regenerative turns. All of these solutions were extremely needed, very expected, because it is good that they are included in this proposal. They meet the demands of all communities, including agricultural representation, from trade unions, as Mr Chróścikowski said, to other associations and organisations operating in the countryside. I had such signals both from volunteer firefighters and from rural hostels' circles. I'm sure you've also received signals in this area. We will, of course, be asking about matters of valorization. This over 12 percent inflation applies to everyone, to those living in the city, and to those living in the countryside. Therefore, I look forward with great hope to making the Ministry more specific as to what country you will be proposing the principles related to the value of agricultural pensions. Unfortunately, this honey barrel needs to be added a spoon to the ground: we also do not forget to raise the retirement age of farmers in 2016. I think it was a wrong decision, a unnecessary decision, it was a government error. Raising the retirement age for women's farmers aged 55 to 60 and men's farmers aged 60 to 65 is a decision that, I believe, was unnecessary. I hope that in this proposal to amend the law, the government will withdraw from the mistake it has made. I'm not hiding that we're hoping for a government decision like this. I am pleased that there is a short period of entry into force of the provisions of the Act, also because of how it is expected by the environment concerned. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased with this revision of the legislation, of course I support it, and I hope that it will be adopted in the Senate above the divisions, and the Ministry will soon come with further proposals, for example in terms of reducing the retirement age of farmers, which farmers expect. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u366	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jerzy Chróścikowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u367	Ladies and gentlemen, I thought we'd be done quickly, but Senator Kwiatkowski's colleague provoked me to speak and I have to speak a little bit here. Beautiful, it's nice to say who raised the retirement age to whom, but someone raised the farmers to 67 years old. It was the Law and Justice that reduced the retirement age of women to 60 years old, which did not raise this age. That's the truth, and it's important to be clear. But there's another truth. That's the truth the senator might know about, and maybe he doesn't want to know. Listen to me. Please note that the amendment of the law contained a 5-year operating period. The five-year period has expired and the possibility of early retirement for farmers has therefore expired. This was due to the increase in age for women up to 67 years old, as well as early retirement. There was only vacathio legis, so to speak, associated with the duration of this 5-year period. The five-year period is over and the question can only be asked: why didn't Law and Justice want to give a vacatio legis yet? But it didn't take anything. It's over. Remember that and don't say that the PiS raised the retirement age because the PiS reduced the retirement age. The second element that was and is not there is a lack of efforts to ensure that we have structural pensions. Remember: structural pensions were from the age of fifty-five. This age has been abolished because we have not sought funding in the European Union for the payment of structural pensions. And that's the next element. The work on the future common agricultural policy has not secured the resources for this. In fact, I have often heard in this House that we cannot afford to pay structural pensions because we can eat money from the fund, from the so-called. They were in the second pillar of the second pillar. It doesn't allow for modernization. And therefore it has been eliminated: let there be money for modernisation, and not for farmers who pass on to the farm... They pass it on when they're fifty-five. I want to draw attention to one more element. Even in the time of AWS, a Polish law was passed, which spoke about the so-called. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure on studies, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings of experts, meetings It expired in 2004, at the time of Poland's entry into the European Union and the introduction of new solutions for European structural pensions. I personally applied for it. He's in the Ministry of Agriculture. In order to restore Polish structural pensions. It is a Polish solution, which is valid, but is suspended. It's announced in law, it exists, but there are no brave people who will say that structural pensions need to be paid billions of zlotys. When there was money from the EU money, it was a deal, and if it was from the state budget, then... We farmers demand this, but there is no such consent. I want to remind you how many people were here before that said to take out the KRUS. How many of them did they preach, how many fights were there? And today, those who raise... I'm not gonna name them, name them, not talk about the party. Law and Justice and PSL also said that the fund, the KRUS, must exist. This is our 1991 postulate. And now the return... Why couldn't you have done this before? We as farmers, as a union, as a solidarity of farmers have reported these solutions before. Why wasn't it done? Because this was explained to us: you agreed then that you would transfer the holdings, and for the transfer of the farms you would be able to obtain agricultural pensions. I would like to remind you that the so-called Game was introduced. contributions and pensions are introduced. But what pensions? Those were pensions for transferring agricultural land to the fund. There was a State Earth Fund. That's over 2 million hectares passed on by farmers. And we said, since you've taken 2 million ha of our agricultural land, now pay off the state budget, because you're trading the agricultural land that you've taken from us farmers before. Hence, it was easier for us in 1991 to come up with a fund such as it is in France, which is co-financed by the state budget. In other countries, this is also financed. And don't tell me that we, PiS, have raised the retirement age because that's not true. It's gone. Also then, according to the bill that... Of course, PSL applied, RI applied, others applied, but failed. And it's my project, so-called. 60 years old for women... sorry, 55 years old for women and 60 years old for men. He's in the ministry, only he hasn't been allowed to pay that earlier... I'm counting on us to continue to consider... Only, as I pointed out even at the committee meeting, then we will write down, as before, the transfer of the farm to successors. Do you want an early retirement age or a lower retirement age? There you go! And bring it in. This is a request that we make. And possibly That's what I said at the committee meeting, too. Polish structural pensions since the age of fifty-five to be able to pass on the farm to the young generation in advance. It's complex, it's a possibility, it's just a question of political decision whether we're able to pay so many billions of zlotys. We often hear: you spend almost 18 billion on farmers, on KRUS. This is a big charge, often directed towards us. And I believe that this is a great achievement in helping farmers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u368	Thank you, Senator. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u369	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I absolutely agree with the previous speaker here. Yes, there was the possibility of extending the vacathio legis, and in this respect my speech should sound that way. All the more so, by modifying, of course, the question, I request and call on the Ministry of Agriculture to fully agree with it, as Mr Chróścikowski said, on this issue, to propose a revision of the rules and to return to these solutions before 2016. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u370	Thank you. The list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the questions asked by Senator Swede and Senator Kwiatkowski. For the sake of order, I also inform you that senators Alexander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Janusz Pęcherz, Grzegorz Czelej, Maciej Łuczak, Benjamin Godyla, Ryszard Świlski, Wiktor Durlak, Przemysław Błaszczyk, Wadim Tyszkiewicz and Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor have submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting, which is today... Sorry, today, yes. [[Voice from the room: Not tomorrow.]] I'm just saying, tonight. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. The text of the Act is contained in print No. 701 and the report of the committee In print No 701 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I present a report on the meeting of the committee and the work on the Act amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. During the committee meeting, the Minister and the representatives of the Ministry presented the scope of this law. The law on its merits, i.e. improving the possibilities of cooperation with the National Tax Administration of entities and institutions, is absolutely right. These include actions under the e-government project, e-government, including tax administration, actions expected by both financial entities and tax administrations, state administration. As the Minister presented during her speech, this law is addressed to 5 stakeholder groups, namely taxpayers, payers, agents, bailiffs and notaries. As for the content of the Act itself, we did not have any more comments here. There were questions about the article. 297e, whether KNF should have such extensive access to data. As a result of the explanation of the Ministry's representative, we considered that the solutions were sufficient to secure all the information that was not needed for KNF to have access to them, and as regards access to the information needed in the cases under investigation, we considered that this was justified. I would now like to talk about what raised controversy, namely one case concerning the substantive part of the law relating to the tax administration, i.e. the issue of authorisations. Here, too, we have information that for 60,000 people who should sign decisions and be able to make such decisions, as if ceding the possibility of signing such decisions is justified so that it is not only the head of the KAS. This raised doubts on the legal side, whether this should be the case, we also have these doubts, but we recognise that what concerns the effectiveness of action is more important than our doubts. The most important problems that have occurred, in the opinion of our patron, but this was also the result of our discussion, are two points, namely the inclusion, as is usually the case, at the last minute, during the debates, without three readings, of two passages, which I would like to draw your attention to. It is a delay in the date of entry into force of the VAT Act, i.e. within the framework of the so-called. The date of entry into force of collective VAT is postponed to the beginning of 2023, which is beneficial for taxpayers, but from the point of view of legislation it is completely illegible, because the National Tax Administration is included in the act. And the second element, even more clearly showing this legal legislative work In quotes, of course. The law on voluntary firefighters, which has been negatively assessed by our Legislative Office, namely that it was incorporated in this law at the last minute in the act, that it would be possible to subsidize firefighters. Again, from the point of view of the idea, in a situation where voluntary guards are involved in the process of aiding the fighting Ukraine, handing over equipment, aid and subsidy are absolutely necessary, but including it in this law is, in our opinion, a disgrace again. But again, given whether there is more good or bad here, I will say that the committee unanimously adopted the law without amendments... sorry, with the amendments, with the 7 amendments that you have on your list of amendments. These are editorial and legislative amendments. These 7 amendments were also supported by the government. The Commission unanimously adopted a resolution on the whole of the Act and the amendments passed by the votes of 5:4. Mr. Marshal, on behalf of the committee, please accept this bill.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u372	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. There are no such questions. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Anna Chalupa like to speak on this bill? There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u373	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Thank you very much for noticing that this bill will allow automation of the process of handling matters handled by the National Tax Administration. It's a very important project for taxpayers. We also see that it will provide citizens, businesses with a package of coherent, complementary online services for comprehensive handling of PIT, CIT and VAT issues. I would like to address those questions which were also raised yesterday in committee in the context of, in particular, grants to voluntary firefighters, as promised to the chairman of the committee. As regards whether there is a possibility to provide targeted grants to municipalities for the financing of TSOs, I would like to point out here that, as is apparent from the article. 32 of the CSR Act, operating costs may be covered by the budgets of the local government units and the state budget, but from the state budget only in the form of grants directly to the CSR, by the Chief of State Fire Service, on the basis of a contract concluded with the CSR. This amendment therefore introduces the possibility to finance the municipalities' own tasks in this respect. In fact, this is an additional funding path for CSR when it comes to financial assembly: municipal resources and state budget resources. There's another range of tasks. The grant will be provided through the voivodeship. The Public Finance Act applies to grants, i.e. up to 80% of the costs. The added provision is optional, not mandatory, and should be used in specific situations, e.g. arising from random events or if the TSO is not satisfied with the money it receives from the State Fire Commissioner. This is the amendment proposed by the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Administration and this is the detailed information we have received from the Ministry of Interior and Administration. If there are additional questions, I would ask that these questions be addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u374	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute of questioning to a government representative. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski volunteered. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u375	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! 2 questions, one related to this calculation in Article. 29. There are detailed dates, dates within which the individual provisions of this law enter into force. The question is whether it was not better to apply such technique as is used in other laws, that the minister responsible for this, if the functionality which the law gives is already ready, determines in the Polish Monitor, that e.g. after 2 weeks, this functionality enters into force and it is possible to use such functionality. That's the first question. And the other. This will certainly make life easier for the average, I would call it, taxpayers, not payers, but taxpayers. The question is, what is the security of this data... [[Timer signal]] I am able to imagine such a situation, that someone will be lurking at data related to, I don't know, court proceedings and then carrying out appropriate projects, so that, for example. it's easy to get rich. Is the method of securing credible enough that there will be no such cases?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u376	Thank you. There you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u377	Senator, when it comes to adding new functionalities, we want to do so by way of a regulation. When new functionalities enter, the Finance Minister will announce in the regulation that they are already fully automated. And when it comes to security, security doesn't change here. Everything that was covered by the tax secret in our systems... We have now sent out the appropriate APIs that will be transferred to the IRS... the IRS is not the server we have access to. That's where we have access. It's just for your data. The Department of Security of the Ministry of Finance together with the Financial Resort IT Center makes sure that the data on the servers is safe.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u378	Thank you. The question is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj. [[Voice from the room: No, no...]] No? Oh, he signed up for the discussion. No further questions. Thank you, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Anna Chalupa: Thank you.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! I'll be brief, maybe I'll repeat myself in some parts. I have such hope as perhaps a naive man, that maybe someday you will come to order with what you create. I, of course, do not address this directly to the Minister, but if the Minister meets those who make these contributions, then maybe you would come up and say: listen, don't do that, because later I go to the Senate and these people say things that I agree with, and I can't say it directly. The bill you're proposing regarding, let's call it, broadly understood computerization, the ease of online connection... That's the obvious thing we're going to support. Even if there were doubts as to whether these authorisations for these 60,000 people should be introduced in this way or not... As you've noticed, we haven't touched on this thread because we think that this element of good is more important than doubt. Yeah, but it was done in normal mode. And throwing stuff like that... Oh, well, you're Minister Soboń, the man responsible for Polish cargo encore. There is a situation of this kind that we reported in the debate, but the state on the right did not listen completely: do not do this Polish Load, make it since January 2023, remove these important elements that are important for you as elements of fiscal policy, social policy, put them in the bill, we will support them, and let us put the rest aside to answer some questions. Well, we've heard here what a fantastic program it is until Minister Soboń has come, who's cleaning up now, although in some situations he doesn't know what to do. And they're starting to shove it up the chain of custody. But in order for it not to be a single law, ladies and gentlemen, it was necessary for this law, which speaks about automation, computerization, to enter a thread concerning the transfer from July to January next year of issues relating to the introduction of this VAT. I already told you, but you, Minister, were not there, there was only a minister at the committee's meeting: make one bill, which will be called a "sack" correction of the Polish Load and put all your ideas there. If anyone's looking, they're gonna find that bag. And you're splitting it up after all the laws, and we don't know where to find it. That's one thing. Secondly, a very important case concerning fire department assistance. Well, it's pretty obvious we'd be ridiculous if we said no, we shouldn't help the fire department. But that's not what we're saying: twice. Let's help the fire department more. Only that we will sit down with you today and come up with five ways to help quickly, without making legal structures that are simply something that is not appropriate for the Polish parliament, the Polish government, because it is not appropriate for them to create the law, that at the last moment it is right for the law on the facilitation of the functioning of the National Tax Administration in relations: the taxpayer of the National Tax Administration. There's a fire department case going in. Well, there's no logic in that. If this were one such case, Minister, Minister, Ladies and Gentlemen, we would say: okay, it happened, okay, we're turning a blind eye. But there isn't a meeting where there wouldn't be a bill where you put something in it. Is there a scenario that one politician has said Poland is the only country in which the Law and Justice must be removed from power in order to restore law and justice? I'm putting that under consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u380	Thank you, Senator. I'm informing you... Oh, no, I'm gonna close the discussion first, 'cause there's no more calls. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed, Janusz Gromek, Grzegorz Czelej, Ryszard Świlski, Senator Danuta Jazłowiecka and Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz submitted their speeches to the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The text of the Act is contained in print No 715, and the committee's report In print No 715 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Wojciech Piecha, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u381	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Dear guests! Report of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation on the Law on the amendment of the Act on Taxation of Goods and Services and of certain other laws adopted by the Sejm on 12 May 2022. Following discussions at the committee meeting, the committees request that this law be adopted without amendment. The vote was 17 votes in favour, no one was against, no one stopped. Now, the purpose of the bill. The Law on the amendment of the Law on value added tax and certain other acts adopted by the Sejm on 12 May aims at: implementing Directive 2019/2235 of the Council of the European Union of 16 December 2019 amending the 2006 Directive on the common system of value added tax and the 2008 Directive on general rules on excise duty in respect of defence activities within the Union. The following point refers to the extension until 31 December of the provisions concerning the export and transport in Ukraine of armoured or protective equipment, structures and their components, marked with LU13 category, as well as the purchase for export to Ukraine of bulletproof vests, military and police helmets, shields, limb protectors and other parts of the body. In addition, it is a matter of extending the application until 31 July 2022 of the Episcopal Provisions, which provide for exemption from excise duty for the sale of electricity to the final customer of electricity in the household, as well as establishing for the period from 1 June 2022 to 31 July 2022 the Episcopal Provisions, which provide for a reduction of excise duty from PLN 232 per 1000 l to PLN 97 per 1000 l for: diesel fuels intended for heating purposes with CN codes 2710... etc., fuel oils with CN codes 2710... etc., of which 30% or more by volume distils at 350°C and the density indicated here, as well as other fuel fuels, where their density at 15°C is less than 890 kg per m3. Modification of the rules on control of investments resulting in the acquisition or acquisition of significant participation or dominance over the protected entity by: a person who does not have the nationality of a Member State of the European Union, a State which is party to an agreement on the European Economic Area or a State belonging to the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development; an entity which has not owned or held for at least 2 years from the date before the declaration of establishment in the territory of a Member State of the European Union, a State which is a party to the Agreement on the European Economic Area. Extension until 31 July of the exemption from retail taxation: motor gasoline, gas oils, biocomponents constituting spontaneous fuels, gases intended for the propulsion of internal combustion engines. That's what the bill was about. The Commission proposes that this law be adopted without amendment.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u382	Thank you. Now the senators can report a question to the Senator rapporteur from a place that lasts no more than a minute. No such questions. Thank you very much, Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister of Finance has been authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Would Minister Arthur Soboń like to speak on this bill? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: No.]] Thank you very much for your succinctness, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: Thank you, Mr. Marshal.]] At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questions to a government representative. I don't see any requests for such questions. Oh, there's a question. There you go. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.]] Senator Paweł Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u383	Minister, you were at the time of Mr Leszek Czarnobaj's speech, who spoke about these outcasts in various other laws. Would the Minister be able to tell you how many such cases there have been, that the changes concerning the Polish Order have been inserted into various other laws?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u384	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Arthur Soboń: Mr. Marshal, may I approach the speaker?]] Ah, speak from the point of view, you'll be quicker.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u385	Thank you. If I may, I won't be here much longer. For the record, Mr. Senator, this project, which is being processed today, does not concern the Polish Government. He deals with VAT issues for the European Union's armed forces operating under the common security and defence policy, but, of course, he also deals with excise duties as part of the extension of the anti-excise shield... excuse me, anti-inflationary. And indeed, it also falls within the scope of other laws. I will not deny here that these amendments, of course, have gone far beyond the legislation originally proposed by the government. As far as the Polish Load itself is concerned, this project, which has already entered the Senate from the Sejm, is a project that closes the issues of changes in the income tax of PIT. But I have announced and announced that a similar CIT project will also be aimed at government work and parliamentary work. We are already at the stage of finalization of the work within the Ministry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u386	Thank you. There are no more questions. I therefore open the discussion. And I'd like to sign up for her. Minister, I would like to express my satisfaction that changes have been made regarding the carriage abroad of certain weapons-related equipment which are not weapons and which were incorporated in 2000. In my day at the MMA, for weapons such as bulletproof vests, necklaces. Well, unfortunately, regardless of political change, certain administrative decisions are unshakable. And I'm happy for you. Because during the discussion on our initiative in the Senate, the Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs said what I heard in 2000: yes, this is a weapon, it can be used for the wrong purpose by the wrong people. This position made it difficult to assist Ukraine in matters of equipment which could be purchased by private entities, civilians in Poland. And there were situations that were passed on to Ukraine with some circumvention of the law. I would like to say that there have been cases where the government took the Senate initiative, which was led by you by Marshal Witek to the Seym freezer. This was the case, for example, with the issue of some financial support for those who were repressed during martial law and before martial law in various illegal or power-fighting entities. Such a bill was prepared by the Senate and this Senate bill was not implemented. Nevertheless, the same law was presented by the government. I always praise such situations that good ideas are taken over by the government. I'm not talking about this because I have any objections to the ministry on this particular issue that has been introduced. This is a very good situation. You don't want the opposition to act with such obvious laws, you take over these laws, you submit them to the Senate, and we support them. So thank you again, Minister. This debate is over. I'm closing... Sorry, before closing the discussion, I also inform you that the senators Mariusz Gromko, Władysław Komarnicki and Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor submitted their speeches in the discussion to the minutes. And now I'm closing the discussion. Is there anything the government would like to add or subtract? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Artur Soboń: I would like to thank the High Senate for working together on this project.]] Thank you. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held today. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax. Let me remind you that this project was introduced by a group of senators. The draft is contained in print No 694, and the committee's report In print No 694 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u387	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees, which you just mentioned to Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, have examined the bill being a legislative initiative of 40 senators and senators. The joint committees adopted the proposed solutions by the following vote: 15 votes in favour, no one opposed, 12 senators abstained. The Act refers to the return to long-term solutions in force until 31 December 2021, which have since 1993 complied with the constitutional principle contained in Article. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 our basic law, the principle that families in difficult material and social situations, especially many children and underprivileged ones, have the right to special assistance from public authorities. For this special help, we recognised the right to account for single parents who raised their children together with these children. From this principle the Polish Load left. It is true that he introduced the 30-thousand-dollar tax-free rule, but it is also true that all families and taxpayers benefit from this relief. Therefore, all other forms of support should be preserved. From this principle, we considered that incomplete families have the right to tax relief, to settle together with children, just as full families are covered by the right to joint settlement with their spouse. That's what the bill is about. Moreover, the bill received a positive opinion from the Ombudsman. Although he added that government solutions are more complete, it is not true, because in the light of what has happened in the Seym in the last few days, a single parent is not entitled to full relief. His child is counted as half a citizen, this relief is just less. We believe that this relief should apply in its entirety. The Ombudsman considered these solutions absolutely right, going in the right direction, and supplemented them with a proposal that the adult child who is being educated should be able to account for... Conversely, a parent who has an adult child who is educated will also have the right to settle with that child. The income of this adult learner counts as if he had received 12 times his social pension. The joint committees at their meeting on 26 April considered this suggestion appropriate and amended the provisions of the draft law accordingly. The Social Insurance Institution does not comment on the bill and the Children's Friends Association considers it very good. Unfortunately, it's psychic. I'm sorry, I have to tell you this. The position of the Minister of Family and Social Policy, who believes that this submission does not require his opinion that the opinion of the Minister of Family and Social Policy is irrelevant in this regard. However, by the votes cast by me... 15 votes in favour, no one opposed, 12 senators abstained. We are submitting this bill to the High House and I ask you to accept it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u388	Thank you. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. The applicants also authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to represent them. And Senator Halina Poor is asking questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u389	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, Senator, I actually have one question, perhaps less about the financial aspect. Namely, did you at the committee meeting raise the question that such a way beneficial for single parents of children can also affect the decision to have a child, if you consider that, despite various attempts, we still have negative natural growth? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u390	Thank you very much, Senator, for that question. No, this aspect was not taken into account during committee deliberations, but I consider it very important. The economic security of the family, including the incomplete family, is the basis for greater childhood. That's what all the demographics are talking about.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u391	Thank you. Senator Eve Matecka. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u392	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, you said the family ministry expressed... [[Disruption during the speech]] ...the opinion of the family ministry. Tell me, was the representative of the family ministry present at the committee meeting and then expressed that opinion? How was this information about the Ministry's failure to express its opinion presented to you? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u393	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u394	Thank you very much. Minister Maląg, Minister of Family and Social Policy, expressed her opinion in writing and used such a phrase there, and I quote precisely: the submission of an opinion on this matter is pointless. I am sorry to hear that, because it is the family, including the one who is facing difficulties, which is covered by the protection of the Constitution, the fundamental law, that should be the subject of particular concern of the Ministry. I also regret to note that the unfortunate statements of the Minister responsible for removing errors from the Polish Łódź, who considered incomplete families to be unfamily... And I imagine a family where a widow raises four children. And tell me, isn't this family? A dad who raises two kids alone or one kid? This is family. This is a family subject to a particular I'm sorry, too. I remember a suggestion to resolve these difficult situations of incomplete families expressed at one time by a Member who today is a MEP: she simply advised single moms to marry. Well, it's hard, it's sad, it's against the Polish constitution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u395	Thank you. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u396	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm a little sorry, because if you're quoting a statement, even in writing, I'd ask that I get that statement. Because I didn't attend your committee meeting. Minister... You have to talk about the whole thing. It's unobtrusive, but why? That's because the Sejm has already handled this case. The path is faster when the Seym takes care of it and sends it to us And we're supposed to be dealing with this at the next meeting. It's more than a senate initiative. And that is why the question, already substantive, not commenting: wouldn't it be easier to simply introduce these changes as Senate amendments to the bill that I think has already come to us, because she is already formally in the Senate I don't know if it's already in the numbered print, too. Who's handling this case?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u397	Thank you. There you go, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u398	Mr Senator, Minister Maląg's opinion is attached to all the opinions that this print contains, so it is on the senate pages. Please check the wording. And as for whether or not the faster path is the seym path... Here's what I'm gonna say. We have been waiting for this seym path with our submission, hoping that the government's promises, also expressed by Minister Sobonia, will be fulfilled that incomplete families will be able to have a single parent with a child or children to account for their child together. Meanwhile, a draft law is sent to us from the Sejm, in which, yes, a parent raising children alone or a child can do so, but provided that one of these children has a disability ruling. And if this child is healthy or healthy, then such relief is granted halfway through. So this citizen with a single parent is counted as half a citizen. We can't agree to that. Moreover, in the government project there is also not what we propose, namely the possibility for single parents to use or choose to raise their children: either to benefit from tax deduction, from the amount of tax 1 thousand 500 PLN, or to settle with the child. The government project doesn't include it. And in my opinion, it doesn't contain any information... I haven't looked at this project in detail, I haven't read it yet, but the information I have on it shows that a single parent raising a learning child who is 18 years old can't account with him. Our project predicts this. This is a clue from the ombudsman we made in our project. So this project is much wider and nothing will prevent us from entering it in the manner in which 40 senators have decided to submit it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u399	Thank you. More... [[Voice from the room: Senator Czerwiński.]] Mr. Senator Czerwinski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u400	If you don't mind, Mr. Marshal, I'd actually have a question. The records that are in this bill can be calmly introduced as amendments to the bill, already to the bill, and it will be more effective. I can imagine, for example. some of these amendments can pass, maybe all of them. 'Cause now, notice, I'm sorry for the expression, it's ugly, but you're orbiting yourselves, you're not making this an amendment... [[Mr. Senator, ask me a question.]] Exactly. And you're introducing this as a project that's going to follow a simple path. He'll come in or he won't come in. Question: Isn't it easier to do this with the simplest means, simply by the amendments? That's what the Senate is for, by the way.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u401	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u402	Mr. Senator, trust is a thing that is very lacking in Poland. We cannot have confidence in a government that rejects all our draft laws and then brings them as its own to the House. We have no objection of authorship. We resent what you just said, that if our cooperation were better on a daily basis, probably good ideas would have been implemented more quickly. We have experience with government promises, such as those obtained by single parents raising children, because they have heard that in the improved Polish Order their situation will be repaired. And it didn't. Then we'll submit... We're doing our job. We're doing what the Senate has to do. We have the opportunity to introduce a legislative initiative, and 40 senators, 40%. The Houses signed on to this project. As their representative and rapporteur for the 3rd committee, I also do what I have to do to report the work of the 3rd committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u403	Senator Jan Maria Jackowski now. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u404	Thank you very much. Senator, don't you think that if the government really wanted to promote the family in the tax system, it would be, for example. would the French system be considered in Poland? I'll remind you that it's there that married couples can account for each other, but it's a product for every child. In this way, the tax system grants childhood which is in the interest of the State. Then there are no charges that we are discussing here, those, let's call it, about which child is a better child, which is worse, what relationship, etc., etc. Do I think correctly? Thank you. [[Mr. Senator...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u405	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u406	Mr. Senator, I dream of a French way to settle taxes. Families are actually preferred there. France is probably the only one of the countries of the European Union, and I do not know the latest demographic results, which for many years... It must be said that the French pro-family policy, prodemographically introduced after the end of World War I. I dream of such a solution, such a model of promoting family and children as the French model. It's all ahead of us. I invite the senator to do some good work in this area. I'm sure we'll work on a good cause.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u407	Thank you, Senator. There are no more questions. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? There is no government representative, and he was invited, there was an invitation sent to the Ministry of Family and Social Policy. It's a shame, because I wanted to ask you why Minister Maląg thinks that her opinion on the bill would be pointless. I'm opening a discussion. Please address Senator Halina Poor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u408	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am very pleased that I could be among the 40 people who initiated this bill. Thank you very much, Senator Kochan, too, for making sure she was briefed. I would also like to thank the committees that gave it a positive opinion. To put it this way: for less than 16 years, I was a single mother who raised four children. [[Applause]] Because my last, youngest son recently took up a job, even though he is still studying, joint accounting is no longer possible. I really think that the privilege of sharing tax treatment with the child, with the children... Regardless of how many children you have, this relief can be applied. The proposed changes and withdrawal of the government from the promise that this privilege, which has been since 1993, should be included in the bill that we will consider in the next meeting, I find it very bad. If our project, which is possible, is lost in the Sejm and in two weeks we will be considering the government project, we will certainly bring these amendments to it. Like Senator Lover said, let's do our job. We believe that such settlement is absolutely necessary. I can say that based on my own experience. I appeal to all those who have abstained. Fortunately, no one on the committee was against this project. It is very important, necessary and important for single parents to support this law. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u409	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u410	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! In Poland we have 2.5 million people, parents raising children alone. Highlights: 2.5 One million people. The rules of the Polish Order told these people: "You are worse parents. We introduce laws that treat you worse, tax rules that treat children from families worse than children from families where mom and kid are. The legislator told the parents who were single, single, widow, widower, divorced, divorced or parents who were separated from their former partner: "The State will treat you worse." And remember that the vast majority of these situations are, of course, women who raise children alone. These are also cases related to the fact that the separation of partners has led to e.g. That there was domestic violence. Today we are dealing with such a situation, that when we were working on the provisions of the Polish Deal, when changes were made to the law implementing Poland Load, when the Sejm Committee of Public Finances decided to abolish the right of a taxpayer who is a single parent or children to tax together with this child or with those children to establish the right to deduct from the tax an amount of PLN 1 000 500, i.e. on worse terms than in families where there are two parents... When the ratio legis was presented, I refer to the ratio legis here in quotes of the amendments tabled, the following was raised: the introduction of a tax-free amount of PLN 30 000 multiplied the profit of single parents in relation to the benefits obtained by married parents. Who said that? Ms Chorosińska at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance in September 2021 You have no shame. We're dealing with a parent, whether it's a woman or a single father who's in a much harder situation than those parents who raise a child or children. And you propose to treat them worse? I say the words to the government. The government had a chance to get out of this face-to-face situation. The Sejm has just amended the provisions of this law. And what did he do? Has he taken this amendment into account? He didn't. I answer the question of one of the senators, my previous speakers: yes, we will make such an amendment. I will personally submit such an amendment to the government project. Do I believe the government will accept her? I'm afraid he won't, because if he wanted to treat these parents fairly, he would have already included it in those changes in the laws that the Sejm was working on. What's the matter? He didn't. All the more reason for me to be so responsible. We want to treat our children the same way honestly, evenly, regardless of whether they are raised by both parents or by one parent. Every opportunity must be used to remove this discrimination. Thank you, Senator, for the initiative in this area. We will also report such an amendment to the government project and we will look at the hands of the government. We will not allow 2.5 million single parents to be treated worse so that the children they raise are treated worse than both parents. We know for ourselves that situations in life are different. The expected effect of the proposed regulation will be not only to improve the income situation of single-parents and to equalise the situation of single-parents, but also to include in Polish tax legislation the constitutional right of single-parent families to special assistance from public authorities. We are talking about a recipe that is valid in the Polish legal order. You guys went up to him. I'll say it softly. "Ignorantly, completely forgetting him. We don't forget that art. Article 71 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 of the Constitution speaks of special assistance from public authorities for families in difficult material and social situations, especially for families of many and incomplete children. So often you refer to the need to protect the families of many children. Read this constitution in its entirety. There is not only the part concerning families of many children, there is also the part concerning single families. Are they worse because there is no longer a sacramental marriage? What if the parent is a widower? What if the other parent died in a traffic accident? After all, this is a curiosity situation. I'm ashamed that we have to talk about this at all. How could you possibly think of that? How could anybody think that a parent who's already in a difficult situation because he's raising a child himself should be treated worse? Therefore, I believe that this revision of the rule, which I will repeat: restores the right of a taxpayer who is a single parent of a child or a child to a common taxation on the same principles as in the case of full families, is an absolute measure of our humanity and shows that we do not dehumanize incomplete relationships, but on the contrary, that today, as my previous speaker said, in a situation of demographic collapse, every child is of particular importance to us. And it is the duty of the State, which uses instruments such as tax legislation, to stress that every family, including the one in which only one parent is present, will be supported by the State. There have been numerous requests to all of us on this matter, and we also have an ombudsman's position on this matter. Everyone asks the same question: Why does a single parent's child become worse than that of both parents? We must also not forget that we are dealing with a difficult situation also because of the so-called. the economic and financial environment. We are dealing with massive inflation, they do not compensate for this loss of change in tax rules and the transition to a relief system of PLN 1 thousand 500. Therefore, taking all these circumstances into account, I hope that today, especially when we are already dealing with an amendment of the Polish Order, which has not further solved this problem, we will adopt a legislative initiative over political divisions, and also over political divisions at the next meeting with the votes of all the ladies and senators in the government project we will introduce an amendment. I really don't care if the quicker path is to adopt an amendment to the government project or to adopt the Senator's initiative. The important thing is to solve this problem. I would also remind you that, in accordance with the settled case-law of the Constitutional Court in this respect, based on the principle of democratic rule of law, the principle of protection of trust in the State and its rights, it is not, in principle, acceptable to make changes to the tax burden during the tax year. Under what circumstances did you accept the Polish Load? I should remind you here, in this room, how you worked on this project, how early before the beginning of the financial year, and in this respect, a project that is detrimental to the taxpayer? Because if you were to change this in a way that would benefit taxpayers, you might wonder, but, as we know, these adverse changes were announced in a very short time before they came into force. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, please, I recommend: let us accept these solutions, which cause that there are no children of a worse God, regardless of whether they are raised by both parents or by a single parent. The adoption of this project is the blurring of a certain stain on the authority of the State, which shows that it defavorizes, let's call it something by name, treats it worse, treats it differently, treats it as a step-by-step, and the word should be taken into consideration in quotes. Today's our chance to fix it. Let us adopt this project without undue delay, and at the next meeting we will also introduce this amendment to the government project. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u411	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u412	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The tax system is one of the key instruments of state policy, especially in the field of family policy. In Poland, until a certain point after the changes in 1989 to whether or not the taxpayer had dependent children, the system was that, so to speak, blind, did not take into account this, it was an individual case of the taxpayer. But fortunately, in the middle of last decade, after an interesting vote in 2006, a tax deduction was introduced for the first time in the Polish tax system due to the child. At that time it was to be 500 PLN per year, but thanks to the support of the LPR proposal by the Civic Platform it was twice that amount. This led to a famous 2006 vote. [[Voice from the room: Thanks...]] The Member remembers that, sir. And that, in my opinion, was groundbreaking in the state's approach to the family, because suddenly the state noticed that the taxpayer had a supporter of some family members who, for obvious reasons, could not earn. Therefore, since the economic operators could deduct e.g. carpeting in the office, furniture or something else as... In that case, there should also be a deduction on income tax for persons who remain dependent on the taxpayer, which does not mean that such a family does not pay indirect taxes anyway, because there is no relief for what is subject to VAT or excise duty if such products, services or goods are used. It seems that at this point we should all think about finally putting a dot over the tax system in Poland, that is to say, that the tax system in Poland actually takes into account the situation of the taxpayer and the children who are dependent on it. That's why I asked Senator Magdalena Kochan about the French system. Of course, there are no ideal tax systems, and we need to be clear about that, and every system will always stimulate discussion. The linear tax will raise her, progressive... It will be: why such, and whether there should be inheritance tax, and whether there should be the first zero or not, and what about the donation in the family, and this and that. There may be very different views on such issues. But as far as the product system is concerned, in European countries, better than family-friendly solutions have not been introduced. I will remind you that taxes in France are paid taking into account the number of people remaining in the family, there is a deduction on the basis of the parts by which we divide the income. So that's what we call it. product system. Parents are 1 plus 1 and each child is 0.5, increased by the next half, if it is a child with a disability or disability It is also important to take into account in the tax system that the cost of living a child with a disability or disability is extremely high. In the case of 80% invalidity, the person concerned is, as I say, deducted without age restrictions. So we have a solution here, for example. 30-year-olds who are dependent on their parents or are... Parents are currently getting some benefit, but there is no deduction, and this is about those who are absolutely incapable of taking up employment. There, the child remains dependent on his parents until the age of eighteen, and in the case of studies up to twenty-five. If a family is established, settlement may take place together with the parents of one of the spouses And so here we see a multigenerational family. Every year, you can choose which parents are billed with. This also applies to grandchildren. When parents who are divorced or separated are dependent, 1/4 of the deduction is granted. The maintenance of children over 18 years of age or who are disabled can also be settled in another form By deduction of the cost of food, diet, etc. I do not want to go into the details of this system, it is really complicated, but France is probably the only European country that, when it comes to demographic issues, is... [[And Scandinavia...]] ...through enormous expenditures since the 1960s... Then, in fact, this pro-family policy began and, nevertheless, it has achieved some success, although it is not fully satisfactory, because from what I remember and what the data say, it appears that they do not yet have this simple reproduction, i.e. more than 2,1, the ratio is at level 2. So that High Izbo, I think, instead of fighting on this subject, we can simply accept this bill, what Senator Kwiatkowski said. I'm sure it's like this famous law to bring down to 12%. The one who's supposed to come in... Notabene is a law on which, I understand, there will be such a solution that it will enter on 1 July, because this is the answer I received from the Minister of Finance on certain tax settlements, but it will apply from 1 January. So that's the 12%. It is not yet available, but it is due to apply from 1 January this year. Some people already benefit from, for example. with the relief for the middle class and... Now, whether it's a business, whether it's on an employment contract, whether it's on a contract or on some other form, whether it's on some lump sum or not, no one is able to calculate what tax he's going to pay at the end of his expected income for 2022. Moreover, the National Tax Administration is also unable to do so and will have huge problems with the PIT settlement for 2022. So that's what we're dealing with here, and because of that, I think about the children... There is nothing to divide children for worse, better etc., etc., but we need to work out a really pro-family system in line with government declarations. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u413	Thank you, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. The discussion is closed... And, earlier for the sake of order, I inform you that the senators Alexander Szwed, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor and Wadim Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the protocol. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be held today along with other votes. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. I would like to remind you that this project has been submitted by the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No. 645, and the committee report In print No 645 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on National Defence and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Aleksander Pociej, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u414	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Minister! The Prison Service Act, which defines the rights and obligations of the Prison Service officers, provides for the termination of the service relationship by virtue of the law due to the absence of an officer in service for a period of more than 3 months due to the temporary arrest, while failing to regulate the possibility of such an officer re-establishing the service relationship when the criminal proceedings in question are or are definitively terminated on account of the circumstances set out in Article. 17 c.p.k., or terminated by acquittal. In such a situation, a personal order stating the expiry of the service relationship by law pursuant to Article. Paragraph 97. Point 1 (6) of the Prison Service Act shall not be subject to either state control or to the cognition of administrative courts. Meanwhile, in the law on the Police, Border Guard, State Fire Service, National Tax Administration, State Protection Service, Marshal's Guard, regulations, unlike in the case of the Prison Service, do not provide for the termination of the officer's service relationship by law due to his temporary arrest. These laws impose an obligation to suspend the officer in his duties and the continued long-term suspension constitutes an optional basis for his dismissal. The Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights drew attention to this situation and to this discrepancy in its petition. During the work on this draft committee First, the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions itself, and then at a joint meeting with the Committee on National Defence and the Legislative Commission on 5 April 2022, decided to adopt the law and proposed that the Senate adopt a uniform draft law. We had different opinions for this project. I would like to say that only the opinion of the Minister of Justice indicated that work is underway in this area. All other opinions were either neutral or positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u415	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and an authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized them to represent Senator Andrzej Pociej. [[Voice from the hall: Aleksandra.]] I'm sorry, Alexandra. Are there any such questions? I can't see. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill presented? I address the ministers... to Minister Warchoł. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u416	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft submitted by the committee deserves attention. The direction is right. Namely, the officer was released from service because he was arrested, temporarily arrested, and then convicted, he is certainly not the one who should perform such service. And that's obvious. If he is acquitted, the proceedings will be terminated, conditionally terminated, then the possibility of returning to such service should be provided. Indeed, the current rules do not provide for such a possibility of returning to a Prison Service officer as opposed to many other services. That is why we consider this direction to be right. Nevertheless, we differ in the way we regain our rights. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the senators have made a proposal for this, and on request, this decision. So first, we're making an administrative decision instead of the current personnel order about the termination of the service relationship. Then, after the acquittal of such a defendant, he is given the opportunity to move this administrative decision, that is, what is in the background, because the administrative decision is the result of a temporary arrest, following his absence, as a consequence. But then the acquittal. And that's where we're different. Well, in our proposal, which is now after the law commission, just before the Council of Ministers and soon to be held by the honourable ladies and gentlemen of the senators, we propose the following: that this final remission, the acquittal of the law give rise to the Not the possibility, but the basis to initiate a procedure for re-establishing a business relationship. So we're giving you a chance to come back. Of course, if they don't want to come back, they won't have to use it, but we won't require them to re-apply, as you propose, within 3 months. You propose to this defendant, and then to be exonerated, to show a specific initiative: he must submit an application, perhaps he must go to a lawyer, I do not know if he will write such a request himself, but some activity is required. And in our resolution, we give him the opportunity to initiate this procedure, so that the state that brought the charges before him and then cleared it, of course, gave him the opportunity to return to the service of the same position previously occupied. And this is our proposal, which I think is better. It is simply this advantage that the final remission or acquittal is of its own motion the basis for the initiation of proceedings. And then what? Of course, he is notified of this, he has the right to be heard, he has the right to submit all requests in this matter, to say whether he wants to return or not to return to the service, and at the end of the day there is an administrative decision. And here we are again in line with this: an administrative decision suing the administrative court. It's our rule, Art. Point (a) of Article 4 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 is replaced by the following: 7: The provisions relating to the appeal shall apply mutatis mutandis to the decision in question. And that's why we think our solution is better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u417	Thank you. At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. Minister... Oh, there it is. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski wants to ask a question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u418	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Brief question: are you in favour of this project or against it?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u419	Against the current project, however, I look forward to the Senate meeting of our project, so that we can return to this discussion on the occasion of our project, which is, as I have already said, before the Council of Ministers meeting, soon to reach you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u420	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[No, not the question...]] No, not a question. Thank you, Minister. So that's how it is: our better. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Yes, sir.]] Thank you. [[Speak up.]] Speaking? [[Yes.]] I'm opening a discussion. And please take the floor of Senator Alexander Pociej.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u421	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I will not argue which solution is better, I would just like to say that our 3 committees have gathered probably on 5 April or March, I no longer remember, and the opinion of the ministry, which is on one and a half pages, came the day before. It's a problem that we're talking about over division. We regret that you do not come, that the representatives of the Ministry very rarely come when the petitions that are being considered are subject to your interest. And many times we could avoid a job or work on a project... Just like you said today, we're generally coincidental, only you would like to go left first, then right, and we chose that first right, then left, but we're going to be in the same place. Therefore, I will ask the High House that we vote positively because... if you were right away, we would probably save everyone some work. And in the future, I would like to ask you very much to send the Ministry to us to discuss the petition of its representatives. It could be the headmaster, the warden. It'll be easier for us. Everyone voted on this project together, if I remember correctly, it was adopted unanimously. And so are the Senators of Law and Justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u422	Thank you. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Alexander Szwed and Wadi Tyszkiewicz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It will be held together with other votes today. We proceed with the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the Law. Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law on Lawyers. I would like to remind you that this project has been introduced by the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and is included in print No 636, and the committee's report In print No 636 S. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, Senator Alexander Pociej, to present a joint report to the committee on the draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u423	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project that I will report today is a project that results from the adoption of a petition by the Supreme Bar Council in the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. In short: this project boils down to 2 issues. First of all, at the time when a search takes place in a lawyer's law firm, in a place where documents are stored, which are mostly not the subject of a case which causes a search with a lawyer or a lawyer, there was a person present who will be identified by the Dean of the Bar Council in such a situation, who, in short, will look at the searchers in their hands so that the search concerns what is the basis of a decision, a provision, and not what concerns the clients of a lawyer or lawyer. And this is the first case that's included in this project. Now the other one. This is due to the nature of the profession of public trust, and such professions are the profession of lawyer and counsel. The second point is that the decision to apply a temporary measure in the form of a suspension in the law of the profession should not be taken by the prosecutor, but by the court. Why by court? The nature of the profession of lawyer and counsel is that they are dealing with the prosecution. And this profession is a guarantee that... equal opponents, partners in this dispute are facing each other. It should not be so in the opinion of the petitioners and the majority in committees In order for one of the actors in this dispute to have the right to decide that the other will be suspended in its rights. That's what this project is all about. The Joint Committees and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions request the adoption by the Senate of the attached draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u424	Thank you, Senator. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur of the committee and to the authorised representative of the applicants. I would remind you that the applicants also authorized Senator Alexander Pociej to represent them. Senator Jerzy Czerwiński is asking a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, it won't be as simple as the previous bill. First line. Why are these two professions, the legal counsel and the lawyer, to be distinguished here? As far as I know, there could be a lot of other people. Why should they be equal and equal here? That's the first question. And the other. They are privileged, these professions are privileged in a specific way. I understand security measures, but worse with the room search... Is there still such an institution of assistance in searching the room somewhere in Polish criminal proceedings?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u426	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u427	I don't remember her being anywhere else. Why the two competitions? Those two competitions... In 99% of cases, the attorney is a lawyer or legal counsel. Of course, we can talk about patent attorneys, etc., but in a dispute with the prosecution, lawyers or lawyers are most often involved in a specific fight against the prosecution. And that was probably the reason for the Supreme Council to petition such a petition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u428	Thank you. Are there any more questions? [[Mr. Marshal, the question...]] There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u429	This is serious. We give a certain distinguished group, actually 2 groups of people, very far-reaching powers, and the rest remains, I would call it, in the area of grayness, indeterminateness. If you have any authority to give, then to me, all citizens. But here you're suggesting that the D.A.'s office will have a bad attitude, a bad will. I know other competitions the prosecutor might be misguided about... sorry, bad will, e.g. A journalist. A journalist's secret maybe, I'd call it, it tastes a lot better for a prosecutor than a lawyer's or a lawyer's secret. Distinction of these two competitions on the basis of unclear criteria, I believe... If anything, let's take into account any person who might be a proxy. And if not, why these? Because there's most of them? Or should this minority be protected as well? I don't think that such a bill, in this form, is... not so much necessary as useful. She's gonna give birth to more tension. I'm no longer talking about matters relating to the prohibition of occupation. We've been here before, in the case of the municipal executives. I don't know if you remember, Senator. It was the executive bodies of the municipality selected directly. There were trials, too, in my opinion, pointless. Here is the division of society, because that's what you can call it, groups and groups in which some are more privileged, others less. Not because, like I said... There's a lot more to the mystery than that. [[Timer signal]] [[Voice from the room: Question...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u430	Mr. Senator, well, we're gonna stick to our assessments as to whether these two professions should be privileged, as you say, or should they be protected, as we say. But if the senator wants to make it even, you can always make an amendment extending these powers, that protection to other attorneys. [[Journalists, too.?]] No, no, reporter, Senator... I'm gonna finish my answer because I really forgot to tell you. Well, the reporter doesn't represent the client, the reporter describes something, obviously putting himself at risk. If you're suggesting a division like this, then there's definitely people who put themselves at risk even more than the D.A.'s office. There's thieves. Well, if we're going to lead to absurdity in our reasoning, then you could say that there's some way to protect thieves, too, because they're already completely upset with the D.A.'s office. [[I apologize, Mr. Marshal, for prolonging, but one last question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u431	Mr. Senator, but ask questions, not polemics. [[Yes, of course, Mr. Marshal.]] You're going into polemics... [[Mr. Marshal, there are questions all the time, there's always a question mark at the end.]] No, Mr. Senator, I'm paying your attention and I'm gonna make sure you ask a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u432	Good. Has the Senator rapporteur seen such appalling cases of tearing his laptop out of the hands of a journalist and doesn't he think that the information that then It was under your rule. What was then harassed by the prosecutor's office or by the body that carried out the search, was it much more tempting in the journalist's case than in the lawyer's case?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u433	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u434	Mr. Senator, those cases you're talking about weren't the subject of the committee. [[But running away... terrible.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u435	Thank you. No further questions. Thank you, Senator rapporteur. Does a government representative want to speak on the bill? I address Minister Marcin Warchoł. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Yes, I would love to.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u436	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Today we touch a very important problem, the right to defence, the right to defence, which is protected as a secret of an absolute nature in the article. 178. The secret of the defender is aligned with the secret of the clergyman and journalistic mystery in the field of protection of the so-called. Anonymous, a journalist's informant. These are the 3 secrets most heavily protected: a defender, a priest in the field of confessional secrecy and a journalist in the field of the protection of anonymity. In addition, in the profession of lawyer we have a less protected secret, it is so-called. attorney-client privilege, which does not concern customer relations The defender, the accused defender, but if the lawyer is e.g. an attorney or legal counsel not in connection with the defensive function, then he has no defensive relationship and is not subject to this protection for defence secrecy. It's the same for a journalist. If a journalist does not come to trust him, he is entrusted with his life's affairs very often, then this defender is not so heavily protected either. I will remind you that a lawyer and a journalist who is not a confidant of an anonymous person may be forced to speak by a court decision under Article. 180 §2. A lawyer and a journalist in this respect may be exempt from the obligation of secrecy if the good of the judiciary and the circumstances cannot be established by other evidence. That means the D.A.'s office needs to get to the evidence wall. And only when faced with this kind of unknown, does he turn to the court to release a lawyer or a journalist from this kind of mystery A lawyer or journalist. But when he's talking about a defense attorney or a journalist confidant anonymously, then he can't fire a journalist or lawyer like that. Therefore, we are moving on to the question of searching. As far as the search is concerned, the most heavily protected profession today is the defense attorney. Well, ladies and gentlemen, in the course of a search at the defender's office, if the defender declares in accordance with the article. 225 §3 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, that documents found with him constitute a defence secret, no one Neither a policeman nor a prosecutor nor even a court can read them. In short, the defense attorney's statement is indisputable. Even if this defender hides the crime, because it could be documents related to the crime, e.g. These may be left VAT invoices, these may be documents proving that his client commits many other crimes, such as laundering dirty money. I will read §3: If the defender or any other person from whom a search is sought declares that a document or other documents issued or found in the course of a search include circumstances relating to the performance of the defence function, the authority performing the activities Read the policeman, prosecutor It leaves these documents to the person concerned without familiarising himself with their content or appearance. A further sentence: however, if the statement of a non-defendant assistant, assistant, secretary, secretary, anyone who is in doubt, the executing authority shall forward these documents to the court with appropriate rigour, with adequate safeguards, and the court shall, after having read these documents, return them in whole or in part to the person from whom they have been taken or decide to retain them. So the court makes, Dear State, the selection of documents found in the defense attorney, the selection of whether or not they are related to the performance of defence functions. But only when? A statement from a non-defendant. If it were, for example. In my apartment, I'd be the protector, but I wouldn't be in the middle of a search at my apartment and my mom would say that these documents are related to the performance of the defensive function, and that's when the court will select these materials. See if these documents contain evidence of a crime, whether they are related to the performance of the defence function. And if I were, for example. When I searched the apartment and I made that statement myself, then no one could verify it. A policeman, a prosecutor, even a court. Dear Sirs, this is a clear breach in the protection of mysteries, because no profession, no journalist, no clergyman, no notary, no doctor. It does not enjoy such protection as the defender in the Polish criminal procedure. Why is that? There are arguments that this is what serves the right of defence, to ensure confidentiality in customer relations He's a protector. However, what you are proposing is the possibility of stopping the search when the Dean of the relevant district counsel does not appear. And until he does... The search shall not be carried out until one of the requested persons has arrived. And this dean is supposed to be, as the senator noticed, that assistant during the search. This solution is completely excessive, non-functional and harmful to our procedure. Harmful because it stops the probabilitation of the search, which, I repeat, can be done without any accusations being made to anyone. This is an act that is not meant to blame anyone, to charge, to accuse. The search operations are carried out in third parties, even the victim may be affected. Also a completely unnecessary action, causing a blockage in the action of downloading bodies, unnecessary in the context of as strong today as we see, protection and Most importantly, the defender, who is already privileged today, in a particularly privileged position for other public trust professions or other professions, such as: A doctor, a notary or a journalist at last. Yes, a journalist may also have strategic information to protect his premises, and his regulations do not protect him. Finally, if these documents are found either from a notarial law firm or from a journalistic editorial office to a prosecutor's office, they shall be dealt with in accordance with the prohibitions and restrictions set out in Article. 178.181, as provided for in Article 5 (1) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013. 226. What does that mean? That means the documents containing the defensive secret are unusable. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They are covered by an absolute defence secret. That's why we don't support this project... Oh, second point, I'm sorry, because there's a second point on the suspension of a lawyer. Well, ladies and gentlemen, I searched the archives of the Ministry of Justice and found the case in 2011, when the then Minister of Justice, Minister Kwiatkowski, said, I will recall that the argument then presented by the Ombudsman, because Irena Lipowicz, spokesperson at the time had already made such a request... And Minister Kwiatkowski then, in his letter of 31 August 2011, found that the exercise of public professional trust by professionals despite the alleged charge of committing a crime could in many cases raise public opposition, but, in conclusion, he did not agree with the proposal that this court should suspend the act of a lawyer. He stated that in the event of an unjustified application by the prosecutor of a preventive measure under Article. 276 of his decision is still to be brought before the court, which is the final decision at the end of the day. And here it is entirely up to me to agree with the chairman of the committee, Senator Kwiatkowski. Therefore, I consider the State project to be unreasonable in this respect as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u437	At present, senators may submit no longer than a minute's query to the representative of the government present at the meeting related to this item on the agenda. [[Senator Jerzy Czerwiński.]] Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u438	Yes, Mr. Marshal, traditionally, but I think the question is justified. Well, many of these very spectacular proceedings are carried out at the same time in many places, as in breaking up a criminal group, there must be entered at the same time and realized e.g. A search at the same time. Then it's effective. The point is not to let each other know, not to hide. So then there's going to be one element of the group. Let's assume that's not the case. Who will be privileged. In this situation, nothing but use such a place to possibly protect most of the members of this group or the whole group. This is what a halted search in one of these people will result in e.g. There's no evidence in this case. Is such a design, theoretically of course, possible? [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice Marcin Warchoł: Of course, it is possible...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u439	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u440	Thank you very much. Of course, it's possible. What else? Today, the absence of a defender, Dear State, does not stop the arresting session, i.e. in a critical situation for the accused, when there is a spectrum of arrest, deprivation of liberty, one of the fundamental constitutional assets, the absence of a defender in time does not stop such activities, is an article. 249 Code of Criminal Procedure. Why, then, should we hold back the activity for one chosen professional group, specially favor it? It absolutely creates the kind of risks that the senator mentioned. We choose one of the organized criminal groups, such as, let's call it, a hole in which we store all the uncomfortable evidence for us, and then we protect this person with a kind of immunity, holding back the actions of the authorities of the state towards this person. So that the whole action doesn't make sense. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u441	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Borusewicz's question, please. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u442	Minister, I have two questions for you. First. Tell me... There used to be a rule that any citizen who was being searched could have called someone to the stand. The first question is, has anything changed? Is such a situation no longer possible at the moment? That's the first question. The second question is a question specifically concerning this law. Does the law refer to a change in the law on attorney-client privilege or counsel privilege? Does it involve an assist in searching the dean's counsel or the person he's designated?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u443	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u444	Thank you very much. That's right. As far as the search is concerned, in fact, according to what the senator just said in his article. 224 §2 of the Code of Criminal Procedure shows that during the search the person being searched is entitled to be present, as well as the person assumed by the conductor. It may also be the person indicated by the person to whom the search is carried out. If there is no landlord This is §3 and is to be searched by at least 1 adult householder or neighbour. These are civil rights safeguards during a search. The senator's second question was to protect the defense secret. I'm sorry if I...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u445	Minister, your argument against this law was based on the statement that attorney or counsel's secret is sufficiently protected and that there is no need here. Some extra security. However, my assessment after hearing the opinion of this law is that this law does not concern legal or legal secrecy, and concerns the assistant during the search of the Dean of the Chamber of Legal Counsels or the person whom he or she has indicated. The question is, am I right?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u446	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u447	Thank you very much. The purpose of the proposed law is to protect the professions of trust, such as the lawyer or counsellor, and the persons in their possession, of documents which may be disclosed during the search. Therefore, the documents I have mentioned are already excluded from the possibility of getting acquainted with them in accordance with the Art. 225 §3. Even the court doesn't have access to them today. And that is why I believe that your proposal is excessive, completely unnecessary, because the documents in the defence are taken out of the possibility of any knowledge of them by anyone, even by a court. However, if they were somehow to be put in the hands of the court, e.g. they'd be in the hands of the client himself... Suppose there's a search at the defendant's or third party's, and there's documents that could be in the firm, of course, but they're in the hands of a client. In such a situation, the court has another prohibition, with the provision I have quoted, Article. 226: You cannot use these documents, judge. This is adequate protection, which, I believe, performs its function. And that's why I'm negative on this project.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u448	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? No. Thank you very much. I don't see any volunteers. Thank you, Minister. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that no one has come forward for discussion. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed made his speech in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. Now the Senate could proceed with the third reading of the bill. This third reading would only cover the vote. It shall be held together with other votes. At this point, I'll be in charge of the recess by 8:00 p.m. Following the interruption, items 13th and 14th agenda will be discussed. After considering these points, the vote will take place. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment from 19 minutes 35 to 20 minutes 04]] I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 13 of the agenda: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Magdalena Kochan. I would like to inform you that on 28 April 2022, the Senate Marshal addressed Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska's application, represented by Michał Pratkowski's lawyer, to the Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs. The Commission has examined the proposal and prepared a report on it. This report is contained in print No 718. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Marek Borowski, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u449	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! As your marshal just said, the case concerns an individual request by Mrs Agnieszka Dudzińska, who, through her proxy, requested the waiver of the immunity of Senator Magdalena Kochan. I will speak very briefly, because the committee's deliberations on this matter lasted very briefly from 2018. At the time, Senator Magdalena Kochan was a messenger. And during the debate at the point concerning the election of the Ombudsman, and Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska ran for this... [[The baby.]] Excuse me? [[Voice from the room: The rights of the child.]] [[The Ombudsman of the rights of the child.]] The Ombudsman of the rights of the child, I apologize. Of course, she was running as a child's attorney. Senator Magdalena Kochan spoke on behalf of the club about this candidacy and among others. quoted Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska's statement, which she gave during the interview for one of the televisions, and she did not quote it in full. Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska considered that such a failure to quote a statement in its entirety defames her, and has therefore made a criminal case before the court. Well, because of immunity, the motion first went to the Sejm because this case had its beginning in the Sejm. In the Sejm, the Committee on Ethics of the Polish Parliament probably did not consider this to be extremely important because it had not taken up this matter until the end of its term of office. Therefore, Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska repeated this request after the Senate elections, but also with some, apparently, delay. In this case, we have found the following. The senator's statement, and then a Member, Magdalena Kochan, was indeed overlooking a fragment of the interview. Two and a half weeks later, at the next session of the Sejm, Mrs Magdalena Kochan publicly apologized to Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska and quoted all of her statements. In this situation, the committee unanimously, I would like to say, considers that the waiver of immunity is pointless, involving the court in this case as well, and recommends that the High House reject the application for waiver of immunity. Thank you... Of course, if there's any questions, I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u450	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No questions. Thank you. According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate shall examine the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs without discussion. The Senator concerned can provide explanations and the senators have the right to ask questions on this matter. Would Senator Magdalena Kochan like to make an explanation? [[Thank you very much.]] Any of your senators want to ask you a question about this, Senator Magdalena Loven? [[Voice from the room: No questions asked.]] Thank you very much. The vote will be held immediately after the 14th item has been considered. We proceed with the consideration of item 14 of the agenda: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Tomasz Grodzki. I would like to inform you that on 28 April 2022, the Senate Marshal addressed the application of a regional prosecutor in Szczecin to the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee. The Commission has examined the proposal and prepared a report on the matter. This report is contained in print No 719. I ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Senator Sławomir Rybicki, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u451	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee at its meeting yesterday decided by a majority to submit a proposal to reject the motion to waive the immunity of Marshal Thomas Grodzki. I will try to reconstruct the committee's meeting quite accurately and faithfully. I ask you to be patient, but I think the seriousness of the matter requires that we discuss this committee meeting, also referring to the various speeches. At 6 p.m., the committee considered item two of the agenda, i.e. a request by the regional prosecutor in Szczecin to consent to the criminal liability of Senator Tomasz Grodzki. The chairman of the committee informed at the beginning of the meeting that Marshal Tomasz Grodzki had refused to allow him to be held liable. On the question of the chairman of the committee, the regional prosecutor in Szczecin, Mr. Artur Maludy stated that he maintained the request and pointed out the legal grounds for the allegations made to Senator Tomasz Grodzki. Vice-Marshal Pak, present at the committee meeting, asked the prosecutor to state the reasons for the proposal, claiming that the senators had very little time to get acquainted with it. He then stated that the application had been in the Senate for 420 days. Let us stress that the point is that it should be possible for the public to become aware of the reasons, because the senators know them. The senator pointed out that the prosecutor could easily justify the request, but the case has no precedent and in this case it is impossible to take shortcuts. In response, the chairman of the committee assured that it would be time both to ask the prosecutor questions and to discuss them. He pointed out that it was important at this stage to obtain an answer to the question whether the prosecutor maintained the request and that the affirmative answer had just been made in this respect. The president also noted that he could not agree with the statement that the proposal was being conducted in an extraordinary manner. The motion, let me remind you, was handed over to the senators in advance. The sitting was convened by the President on 13 May in the morning and on the same day the materials were delivered to all members of the committee. Vice-Marshal Pęk once again pointed out that the essence of his appeal was to enable the public to understand the reasons for the proposal. He also called for clarification of what had previously been the case since the senators were not informed about the fate of the application and the formal deficiencies. The chairman of the committee referred to the comments of the Vice-Marshal, pointing out that it is not the role of the chairman of the committee to clarify these issues, and in particular that questions relating to the formal deficiencies of previous requests should be addressed to the Attorney General of Zbigniew Ziobra. He pointed out that the request under discussion had been addressed to the committee for two weeks, and the committee therefore proceeded to examine it without delay. Despite this, Vice-Marshal Pęk asked who should be asked about what was happening to the proposal before he got to the committee. In order to put an end to further consideration in this regard, they deviated from the task imposed on the committee. The chairman of the committee quoted the text of the Rule. Article 26 (2) (b) 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Senate and of the Rules of Procedure. 7c of the Act of 9 May 1996 on the implementation of the mandate of the Member and of the Senator governing the examination of the application by the committee, including the scope of the evaluation to which the committee is appointed. In addition, the chairman of the committee stressed that the committee did not decide either on the guilt or the innocence of the senator concerned, but only on the basis of his knowledge and the findings made, decide whether the application for waiver of immunity was motivated by an out-of-law factor, whether it was intended to punish the protected person and not to compromise the policy, in this case the Senate marshal. The president also pointed out that, in the absence of a previous motion by Vice-Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, the prosecution initiated an investigation into failure to fulfil its duties, which is an obvious interference with Senate autonomy and an attempt to influence the High House. In any case, Senator Włodzimierz Bernacki asked if the senators, the members of the committee, could gain insight into previous conclusions. The chairman of the committee informed the senator that these proposals were not at the disposal of the committee as they were never addressed to it. The chairman of the committee once again stated that the committee was dealing with the request which was addressed to it in the appropriate manner and only with that request. After this explanation, the chairman of the committee gave the floor to Marshal Tomasz Grodzki in order to respond to the proposal. Marshal Tomasz Grodzki referred to the previous votes and confirmed that the previous two applications were subject to formal defects. Continuing his statement, Marshal Tomasz Grodzki presented his professional achievements and stated that there were never any objections to him of a corrupt nature. He emphasized that he was one of the first in Poland to invite prosecutors to provide training for doctors and nurses showing the boundary between accepting evidence of patient gratitude and accepting a wealth advantage. According to Marshal Tomasz Grodzki, only the day after he was elected as Marshal of the Senate began a campaign involving the entire apparatus of the state, initiated an application to the prosecutor's office from a person who was never a patient of the Marshal. The CBA involved 100 agents in interrogation and interviewed over 200 people. The result is 4 events from 2006 and 2012 and the allegations are based on such wordings: "I wasn't there, but my dad said, "I heard from my sister-in-law, my sister-in-law said there was something there for things." No one has testified that a surgeon would demand anything from him, and some of the testifyors, apparently misinformed about the contents of the expected testimony, have even confused his function and organizational realities of the hospital. The Marshal pointed out inaccuracies in his testimony and emphasized that he had numerous lists of former patients, including PiS activists, who ensured his commitment and expertise and emphasized his honesty and gratitude. They were also letters from people outraged by interrogations. He emphasized that he was famous for his strict enforcement of the rules and did not want to receive flowers from his patients. No talk goes beyond 2012, and the case is not so much a chase for him personally as for the Senate. He recalled that cases of false statements against him were submitted to the prosecutor's office in exchange for money and that the CBA and the prosecutor's office were accompanied by an intensive campaign of the right-wing press which issued the judgment. In this context, Marshal Tomasz Grodzki referred to the trials he had brought to the editors of Sakiewicz and Duklanowski, in the case of the editor of Pereira he mentioned that the editor had apologized to him as part of the settlement. The Marshal also pointed to the fact that he received criminal threats concerning both himself and his family, but according to the words of Marshal Grodzki these cases were not properly explained by the prosecutor's office. After the speech of the Senate Marshal, Senator Krzysztof Słoń asked the following question: why is the third application of the Senate Marshal's office dealing with the previous two requests for compliance with the formal requirements examined Vice-Marshal Borusewicz? And second question: what were the drawbacks of the second conclusion? In view of the questions relating to previous proposals, the committee president pointed out that the committee's work was subject to a specific proposal, i.e. the request of 14 December 2021 made through the Prosecutor General on 28 December 2021, and this request was forwarded to the senators, the members of the committee. Nevertheless, Marshal Grodzki responded to Senator Krzysztof Słoń's questions. He explained that he was following the Senate's Rules of Procedure and that as soon as a well-drafted proposal was sent, in which the statute of limitations was not discussed, he addressed it to the committee. Senator Marek Martynowski called for all senators to be able to read the request and to be made available on the committee's website, as well as for the prosecutor's representative to be free to comment on the proposal. Senator Włodzimierz Bernacki drew the attention of committee members to the difference between material and formal immunity. In addition, he asked the regional prosecutor in Szczecin to refer to the personal evidence referred to in the grounds for the request and thus to the claims of Marshal Tomasz Grodzki concerning the testimony of witnesses. Referring to Marshal Tomasz Grodzki's statement, Senator Stanisław Karczewski noted that the sentence could only be handed down by an independent court, and stated that he wanted Marshal Grodzki to waive his immunity and clear himself of the charges. He called for the full transparency of his work. Tomasz Grodzki, a marshal, referred to this point, pointing out the press publications determining his guilt and claiming that he does not believe in the impartiality and objectivity of the prosecutor's office, which is headed by Zbigniew Ziobro. At the same time, he warned that it was not possible to make the proposal public in connection with the position of the prosecution itself, which is conducting one more procedure, on the public disclosure of the content of the proposal. The appropriate letter in this regard was addressed to Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz. As Senator Marek Martynowski asked how the other senators could read the application, the representative of the Legislative Office indicated that the content of the application should not be made public because it contains information from the preparatory proceedings hosted by the prosecutor. Senator Krzysztof Słoń asked the regional prosecutor in Szczecin about... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Shh...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to ask for peace of mind. Let the senator...]] Just add me some time, if you don't mind, okay? [[Voice from the room: Yes, yes.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Yes.]] Senator Krzysztof Słoń asked the regional prosecutor in Szczecin. Firstly, it was a question of the differences between the second and third proposals, whether the second proposal really referred to the actions of statute of limitations and whether those actions were described in the third proposal. Secondly, the question of the moment when the prosecution took action, whether the proceedings were actually initiated only after the election of Senator Tomasz Grodzki as Marshal of the Senate, or whether the prosecution had acted before. And thirdly, the question of Senator Elephant about the possible effect of the Senate's failure to allow Marshal Tomasz Grodzki to be held liable in the context of the institution of limitation. In response to the questions of Senators Włodzimierz Bernacki and Krzysztof Słoń, the regional prosecutor in Szczecin, Mr Artur Maludy, confirmed that the proposal contains legally protected data. This is of colossal importance: the prosecutor confirmed that the application contains legally protected data, i.e. data of persons, medical data, sensitive data that cannot be made available to the public. He stated that the investigation was initiated on 4 December 2019 in connection with materials collected by the Central Anti-corruption Office officers. He pointed out that the prosecutor's office had until the first request for consent to be held liable by Senator Tomasz Grodzki, i.e. On March 17, 2021, she interviewed only 49 people, and 20 of them, under criminal authority for false testimony, indicated that either they personally provided benefits or their relatives did so, this was done in the years 1996-2012 and was related to the treatment of 13 patients, while the total amount of property benefits granted was PLN 24,000 150. The prosecutor added that the actions committed between 1996 and 4 December 2004 were statute-barred and cannot be covered by the application. However, he admitted that these actions were referred to in the explanatory memorandum. He also stressed that, in this respect, the third proposal is no different from the second proposal. The prosecutor described the circumstances of the act, quoting key statements in favor of the motion. He also stated that the witnesses volunteered in this case because they were appalled that Tomasz Grodzki had become a Marshal of the Senate. He emphasized that witnesses testified that the motive for granting property benefits was either to provide themselves or their relatives with the best care possible, in one case A desire to speed up the operation. In his argument, the prosecutor argued that both parties to proceedings pending before the committee should be free to refer to the evidence gathered. To point out to the chairman of the committee that the prosecutor does not have the nature of the party in this case, i.e. at the committee meeting, because the committee is not a court and there are no parties here, the prosecutor noted that he cannot defend the proposal, since he cannot fully comment on the statements made at the prosecutor's office. It ensured the accuracy of the request and requested a positive examination of the request. Ad vocem said Marshal Tomasz Grodzki. He quoted the information that 73 people had been interviewed by 12 March 2020 and that by 24 February 2021 180 witnesses had been interviewed. He said this data contradicts the information given by the D.A. He allowed the possibility that the D.A. didn't include the persons being questioned by the CBA. As regards the statement of voluntary witnessing, Marshal Tomasz Grodzki quoted letters describing the content and form of summons sent by the prosecution to patients for the purpose of testifying. The letter read by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki indicated that the witnesses were subjectively intimidated. Senator Marek Borowski stressed that if formal immunity were to be lifted always to allow the accused to be exonerated, it would be unnecessary, but in democratic countries it protects opposition politicians from the self-will of power, from using law enforcement and justice apparatus to harass, persecute and prevent them from working. When considering the request, it must be assessed whether it is dictated solely by a sound investigation and objective conduct by the authorities of the State or not. It is necessary to conduct a test of the credibility of the prosecution led by Zbigniew Ziebra. In this context, he recalled public, well-known examples of politically motivated actions by the prosecution's acquittals. It was about the alleged corruption arrangement in the Warsaw City Council, the provocation against Andrzej Lepper, the Barbara Blida case, the harassment of doctors, the judge, the experts who were involved in the case of father Zbigniew Ziobra, the case of Mr Andrzej Kratiuk, and thus the marriage of Jolanta and Alexander Kwasniewski, the attempted arrest of patron Giertych, the case of charges brought against Senator Gawłowski, and finally a listening scandal involving Pegasus. He stressed that it would be a mistake to assume that a year after the waiver of immunity the result of the CBA and the prosecution's actions would be known, because the case could go on for 5, 10 years and end in acquittal. Therefore, Senator Marek Borowski stated that the waiver of immunity would be irresponsible and requested a negative opinion from the committee on the application for the waiver of the immunity of Senator Grodzki. Senator Włodzimierz Bernacki warned that Senator Stanisław Gawłowski had made a statement of criminal liability and that Members, Senators, Judges and Prosecutors should not be protected from criminal liability. The request by Senator Włodzimierz Bernacki to change the law on formal immunity has triggered a short replica of Senator Marek Borowski, who noted that this immunity is sometimes broken, but is necessary to protect against abuse of state institutions to prosecute and harass opposition politicians. It will become redundant only when the prosecution in Poland is independent and apolitical. In general, Senator Stanisław Karczewski also spoke about plans to abolish formal immunity, stressing that he was in favour of this solution. He criticised the proceedings of the committee meeting and the conduct of the deliberations by the chairman of the committee. He argued that law enforcement authorities had to refer to witnesses to call for specific content. Threats directed at the Senate Marshal, but he also referred to other senators as provocation. He declared that he would vote for the waiver of immunity, not because he was reluctant to go to Marshal Grodzki, but because he was in favour of the transparency of law and justice. He pointed out the value of the principle of equality before the law. In his view, there can be no question of any harassment or repression in this matter. The chairman of the committee, speaking in the discussion, stressed the role played by the institution of formal immunity in a democratic state of law and drew attention to the instrumental use of law enforcement authorities in the fight against opposition in Poland. In this context, he referred to the report of the Helsinki Foundation for Human Rights on the 6 years of the prosecution under the rule of Zbigniew Ziebra, the State of Indictment, which discusses the legal tools unknown in democratic countries which enable the prosecutor general in Poland, and at the same time the politician, the leader of the political party, the member of the governing group, the executive authority, the manual control of individual preparatory proceedings, the commissioning of operational and exploratory activities, i.e. surveillance, and give the opportunity to learn about the effects of this surveillance. In the final part of the discussion regarding the doubts raised by Senator Stanisław Karczewski and the earlier question of Senator Krzysztof Słonia, Senator Marek Borowski noted that during the period of immunity there is no limitation period for the act covered by immunity. The case of Marshal Tomasz Grodzki will therefore not be statute-barred and, in addition, in the event of re-election to Parliament, the Marshal will be subject to an assessment of the voters. The chairman of the committee put to the vote Senator Marek Borowski's request to reject the request of the regional prosecutor in Szczecin to allow the Senate to hold Senator Tomasz Grodzki liable for criminal liability. This proposal was voted on by 7 votes in favour, with five votes against and no abstentions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u452	I thank the rapporteur very much for his detailed and thorough presentation of the committee's work report. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Marek Pak. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u453	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I'd like us to get down on the ground and make reference to the merits of the case, and simply present to the Senate and to the public the content of the prosecutor's application, and above all what charges the prosecutor would like to bring to Marshal Grodzki if the immunity of the Marshal was lifted. So what's really being accused of being a marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u454	Mr. Marshal, I am standing on the ground very strongly, so in response I will tell the Marshal that, according to the rules of procedure, I have presented the proceedings of the committee, and I think that this is my role.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u455	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal Marek Pak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u456	In that case, I would like to ask your senator whether it is true that the prosecutor's request includes charges consisting of the acceptance by Marshal Grodzki of a cash benefit of 7 000 in 2012 and in 2009 of a cash advantage of 2 000 in exchange for a personal operation. Is it true that on 7 September 2009 in Szczecin, Mr. Marshal Grodzki accepted from the established person a property benefit in the form of money in the amount of PLN 3 000 and USD 500 in exchange for a quick operation? [[Timer signal]] Is it true that this proposal also includes an act by which your Marshal accepts the property benefit in the form of money in the amount of PLN 1 thousand 500 in exchange for providing good care to a particular person? [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, time.]] Is the truth... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...that this request covers the actions described in Article. 228 §1 of the Penal Code? Because we haven't really heard since yesterday... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stank: Mr. Senator, the minute has passed.]] ...what is the conclusion we are considering. In these diwags we hear mostly about Minister Ziobra. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please...]] Just tell the Senate and the public what we're really going to decide.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u457	Thank you. Before the senator answers, I would very much ask you all to observe your time. You're welcome. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u458	Mr Marshal, the rapporteur's role is to present the committee's course faithfully. I did so, predicting that there might be questions about the course. This is a very faithful reconstruction of the committee and this is my role. The right, and it can be said that it is the duty of every senator who is interested in the matter, the law or the proposal, to simply read it, and the role of the rapporteur is not to read the content of the proposal at the meeting. This is not the subject of my report. I would like to say to you that at the end of the committee meeting I informed all the members of the committee that, since the proposal is covered by such a clause, that it must not be disseminated, the senators concerned can come to the committee and simply get acquainted with it. I would like to inform you that no senator has come to the committee to read it, no senator of those who raise this issue publicly, has come to the committee and has not read this proposal. I won't read it, because it's not my role, it wasn't the subject of my speech or any other speech at the committee's meeting, because all the committee members have had this request for days in their lockers and in their mailboxes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u459	Thank you very much. Are there any more questions? Mr... But I'd like to ask you now... Senator Marek Pęk will be, and now Senator Vladimir Bernacki. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u460	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, is it true that, at first, during the meeting, you spoke to the President about the fact that the rapporteur's role would be a precise explanation of the issues relating to the legal basis of the allegations? Is it also true that you initially claimed that the content of the proposal was secret and confidential?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u461	It is not true that I have said that in the report I will read the conclusion, this is absurd. The truth is, I said there would be a free discussion and the possibility of asking questions to the prosecutor. I would like to say to you that the discussion was unlimited and anyone who wanted to speak on the committee meeting could take the floor and take the floor. Anyone who wanted to ask the D.A. could have asked them. Only two members of the committee asked for it. It's also some measure of interest for your assessment. Well, maybe those two questions were enough. I think if there were more of them, and if they were about the substance of the problem, which is the conclusion, you'd probably answer. I am surprised at such questions, because after all, you have all this request, which... If you wanted to, you could have gotten to know him. Do not expect the rapporteur to go beyond his role and read the proposal. That would be super-standard.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u462	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Marek Pak. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u463	I would like to return to yesterday's committee meeting, because in fact the course of this committee meeting and the way it was conducted by your president was, to say the least, outrageous. First of all, I think it was outrageous. And I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you have nothing to accuse yourself of, that you have left, in fact, completely without the reaction expressed by the senator, Marshal Boris-Damięcka, a proposal to remove me from the sitting room for the fact that I am asking you to answer these questions that you were talking about at the beginning of your report, so the questions about what happened to this proposal for 422 days. And don't you also think that the scandalous and inconsistent principle of establishing material truth was that you didn't allow the prosecutor to speak freely? You interrupted him instantly when he wanted to be professionally... [[Timer signal]] ...justify the charges, state the merits of this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u464	Mr. Senator, time. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u465	Mr Marshal, I believe that the chairing of the committee was in order and that we have repeatedly appealed to the Rules of Procedure. Also when Marshal Karczewski appealed Although he used a formal application after Senator Barbara Boris-Damięcka's statement, that her speech, which was, as Mr. Marshal Pęk noticed, would be heard... Because I didn't hear it like that. Maybe I was focused on something else. But the point was to put it on the record, to record it. And I got Mr. Marshal Karczewski's attention that according to Art. 66 Rules of Procedure of the Senate concerning the minutes documenting the work of the Senate committees and the possibility to make such comments and appeals there... that this would not be a formal request. But, Mr. Marshal, Mrs. Barbara Boris-Damięcka, the senator, reacted after you once again tried to really disrupt the committee's work, demanding the president to refer to the content of the proposal that never came to committee. That is, to compare the conclusions that were never on the committee. The committee's meeting was subject to a specific request that was available. He was the subject of our work. Senator Damiecka voiced it out loud in her outrage and it will be in the record, Mr. Marshal Karczewski will be able to check it out.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u466	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski for a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u467	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. The first letter of 6 April this year The request for public information to be made available by me: "Please provide information on the content of the letters sent by the authorities and the state offices to the Senate of the 10th term of office on the waiver of the immunity of Mr Tomasz Grodzki, the Senate Marshal, and the reply of the Senate or its authorities to those letters.' And that's how the senator gets the answer. It is not an ordinary person, in quotes, but a senator, also a citizen. Well, referring to the content of the request, I kindly explain that such a question is not a question of public information. In fact, it is a request to make available a collection of correspondence between the more precise authorities and state offices on the waiver of immunity to the Senate Marshal, without stating who the correspondence was addressed to. Why were you so afraid of the truth? Why?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u468	Mr. Senator, the motion has been received by the committee... I can relate to the correspondence that went to the committee. And the motion was sent to the committee on 28 April, and the day after that it was sent to the committee to proceed. And this is the only correspondence in this case I can comment on. I, of course, know about the existence of correspondence from the National Public Prosecutor's Office, which was sent to the Senate asking for an explanation of who from the clerk's office was supposed to be the source of information leaking from previous applications, also covered by the principle of confidentiality, i.e. the principle of non-disclosure of this information publicly. And that's the correspondence I know about. And the second is the one I mentioned that the prosecution opened proceedings on the decision of the Senate Vice-Marshal, an autonomous decision based on the law, a law on the implementation of the mandate of a Member and a Senator, in which he failed to issue a motion. And in this case, the prosecution sent a letter to the Senate, which I know about, stating that it is initiating proceedings for abuse of powers or failure to fulfil its obligations. It's the only correspondence I know about, but it wasn't really... At the committee meeting, there was only mention that this was an attempt to interfere with the autonomy of the House.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u469	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u470	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I'm not a member of the committee. I'm supposed to vote on something I don't know. So... [[Shame.]] [[Voice from the gym: You're insolent, really.]] ...I'd like to ask... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Please calm down, Ladies and Gentlemen. Calm down, please.]] ...senator: What kind of confidentiality clause is on the prosecution's motion? And second question: What is the legal basis for not making this request available to the senators? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u471	I will repeat what I have already said in my previous reply: that every senator has the right and even the obligation to read the proposals that he is voting on, because he should know what he is voting on and what he is debating. And I know that many senators have been familiar with this proposal. Not all of them. Excuse me, I'm not gonna explain myself to those people who should have done this, and they didn't. And I'll recall, because I've already done it in a fairly precise report from the committee meeting... In his statement, the applicant confirmed that the application contains legally protected data, data of persons, medical data, sensitive data which cannot be made available to the public. Therefore, in this case I can only repeat what I have already said: all those who wanted to know about the request have become acquainted.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u472	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u473	Mrs. Marshal, Mr. Senator, I would like to ask you when and in what form I have been informed, as a senator, of the possibility of getting acquainted with the request you are referring to. That's one thing. Secondly, I do not know such a formula, a confidentiality clause, which consists in the statements of the prosecutor at the committee's hearing, because between the date of receipt of the request and the date of such a declaration, this request was public, and therefore could not change the status of the committee's meeting. It's just a very poor statement from the senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u474	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u475	You are a long-standing senator, and you know very well that there have already been several proceedings for the waiver of immunity, including an action or a public charge like that. With one exception, which concerned an application for the arrest and arrest of one of the senators, all other applications were dealt with in such a way as this. The senators could come and get acquainted and get acquainted. They didn't get applications for their mailboxes because it would be against the standard, first, and secondly, it would expose the senders to the charge of making the threads covered public... [[Voice in the room: You didn't understand the question...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] ...the secret of the proceedings.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u476	Calm down, please. There you go, Senator Kazimierz Wind.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u477	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr Senator, President of the Commission, I would like to ask which provision of the Senate Rules of Procedure describes the procedure for examining the proposal which the senator here refers to as customary and valid. Indeed, it is a fact that I have long been a senator, and indeed it is a fact that I have never had the circumstances to meet such practice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u478	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u479	No provision of the Rules of Procedure requires the Head of the Rules of Procedure, the President, to send all senators documents that affect the committee, including applications for waiver of immunity, but each senator has the right to read such a request in the proper manner, and particularly experienced senators should know that because they may have used such practice before. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down!]] [[What does that tell you, Senator? There's no record of that.]] There is a well-established practice that I mentioned, the practice that applications were not copied and delivered to all senators. It's been a practice since a lot of term. There was one case when Marshal Karczewski decided to send Senators a copy of the senate's application to arrest or arrest one of the senators.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u480	Thank you very much. Senator Stanisław Karczewski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u481	Thank you very much, Marshal. I didn't want to ask questions, but I'm very interested in this subject. I wanted to take the floor at the committee meeting, Mr Marshal has already... Mr President has not given me the floor, and I wanted to take the floor on this issue, on the availability, possibilities, rules and access criteria... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Question, Mr. Marshal.]] [[Voices from the room: Question, question.]] If you're patient, it'll be a question soon. [[Voice from the room: Yeah.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down!]] I wanted to ask you this very question, what are the standards in delivering this to the members of the committee, because I got these documents in box 42, and the senators who are not in committee and are about to make a decision right now did not receive this request to their boxes. This is a question to the President, but also to the marshal, why the other senators are about to make a decision, an extremely important decision... [[Timer signal]] ...and they didn't have the opportunity to read the application. I asked, I wanted to ask the chairman to stay... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...a fixed procedure for informing the senators that they can report to the committee and read this request, but unfortunately I have not been allowed to speak, and Mr President has closed the sitting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u482	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u483	And at the end of the day, he said that all those concerned according to some obvious standard could be familiar with the application. I wouldn't dig that much, because he's causing it... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please don't disturb me.]] It will also break through to the media that senators who have access to the proposal and want to make such an important decision, such a strategic, important decision, have not read the proposal. It's just, to put it bluntly... [[Voice from the room: Don't talk.]] Come on, everybody, make a comment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u484	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to ask a question? Mr. Senator Marek Pak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u485	I would also like to ask the President what is the date of the request that we have examined, and is it true that yesterday the prosecutor said that there was no difference between the proposal that we were considering and the previous proposal, which was supposedly flawed to prevent it from proceeding.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u486	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u487	Mr. Marshal, the motion that was sent to the committee, I repeat, arrived on 28 April 2022 and was given a run a day later. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Do not disturb me, Senator.)]] This proposal was the subject of a committee meeting, only this proposal, and only this committee meeting is being reported by me today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u488	Thank you very much. [[Okay, but...]] Does anyone else have a question? [[I still have a question because it's...]] [[You asked at the committee meeting.]] [[No...]] Senator Marek...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u489	Now you're asking for proposals that have never been made to the committee, conclusions that the committee has never seen, so these are questions that are supposed to cause... a destabilization of the debate rather than cause some kind of... [[It's just that everyone...]] ...possibly... [[Mr. Chairman, I really...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please do not disturb me.]] ...a substantive answer. Mr. Marshal, these requests have not been received by the committee, so it is difficult for me to talk about them. As for the one who came in, it was given to him immediately, or the next day. [[Well, then...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u490	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[Mrs. Senator...]] Mr. Marshal... [[Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to ask you a question.]] Mr. Marshal, I'd like to give you the floor. [[Thank you very much.]] Let me give you the floor. [[I thought you were gonna ask me out of the gym.]] Mr. Marshal, ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u491	Mr. Senator, why won't you inform the High Senate that the motion we've been considering is dated December 28th? I mean, it's public information.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u492	If you'd listened to my speech, Toby... That information came out there. Don't ask me what was in my report. I changed the date... [[I asked you one more question that I didn't get an answer to.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u493	Mr. Senator Mark Pop, Mr. Marshal, please don't disturb me. You wanted an answer. Let me ask you another question. Please listen to the answer. [[But I didn't finish asking the question, and the senator interrupted me.]] Mr. Senator, if you'd like to ask a question, please come to the question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. Mr Marshal Marek Pęk will allow you to finish the senator and ask another question. There you go. [[I can. Yes?]] Mr. Senator, do you still want to answer?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u494	Here is the thread from the committee meeting when I had to discipline your Marshal Pęka, although he considers himself an expert in the rules of procedure. These are questions which were not the subject of the committee's meeting. He asked for proposals that never came to the committee, and at the moment he is also referring to this topic. Mr. Marshal, you heard at the committee meeting that...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u495	But I asked you, Mr President, about the committee meeting. At the committee hearing, you clearly said... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr...]] ...that the December proposal compared to the April proposal did not differ in a word. I believe that this is a very important circumstance regarding why it is only now, why we are only proceeding with this proposal today. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] You don't answer like fire. I understand that this is embarrassing for you. That's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u496	Mr. Marshal... I would ask Mr. Marshal Pak to ask about the proceedings of the committee, not the content of the conclusions that were never on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u497	I, too, would like to ask you to ask questions that are being asked. The State has an unlimited opportunity to ask questions about the work of the committee. Now you're asking Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u498	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I quoted the question and the answer I got in April. The conclusion we're talking about, the current one you've been looking at, is from December. That means that he was at your disposal, and I'm talking about the Senate in general, and you're going to be explaining it all. It's been four months. Tell me on what basis, after such an answer, I was able to read the proposal on which I am to vote. Did I get any written, texting, e-mail information where I could get acquainted with him and what mode? That's basic.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u499	There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I ask the senators to remain calm. I'm asking for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u500	Mr Senator, let me repeat that the proposal, which was the subject of the work of the Rules of Procedure Committee, was sent on 28 April 2022 and immediately gave effect to the case. You can't ask me things I couldn't control. I have no idea about the content of these proposals, so please... I know as much as all the senators know if they're interested in what the media is talking about. That's all. [[I'm sorry, Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u501	Okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, [[I have to ask.]] You wanna ask. Okay, here you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u502	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm asking about the operation of the head of the rule board. If he received the application on April 28th... What date is today? May 18th. Tell me how you informed me as a senator between 28 April and 17 May about where I can read a very important request, its content, even in a confidential manner. There's no problem.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u503	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u504	Mr Senator, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, upon receipt of a request, the chairman of the committee shall address the persons who are covered by the request and shall set a time limit for surrender of immunity. This deadline was set on the first day of May 12. By 24 a.m. on 12 May, Senator Lover has not filed a motion to waive his immunity. The Senate Marshal announced earlier that he was not going to resign from his mandate. The procedure for sending information to the members of the committee, along with the materials, took place immediately after the deadline for waiver of immunity, which was the 13th morning. All of you, members of the committee, received a complete set of documents in the morning of the 13th. I don't want to ask you if you've all read these materials since Friday morning or later, it's not my concern anymore, but each of the senators here... Well, I'm not gonna say it again, because to me, it's just a little embarrassing how the senator says he doesn't know what the proposal is because he hasn't read it. Well, I'm really not gonna say this anymore, 'cause I'm just awkward.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u505	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Martynowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u506	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. I don't have a question, but I have a formal conclusion. In view of these explanations by the President, or actually obscure explanations, I am requesting a half-hour break so that we can all be familiar with this proposal from the prosecution. I would very much ask that the President designate such a place and tell all the senators in a moment where we can get acquainted with this proposal. [[Ladies and gentlemen...]] [[But this is a formal conclusion, you don't have to answer. He's a marshal...]] [[No, but I want to let you know that he's been around for hours.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u507	Mr. Senator, give me... I give the floor. Immediately at this request will be formally answered. [[...the senator is against it.]] Don't interrupt me. [[This isn't a firing squad.]] There you go. [[And the Vistula is still in the First League.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Mr. Chairman, Mr. Senator...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Senator, this is really not serious.]] [[Mr. Senator...]] [[And the firing squad is serious? Mrs. Marshal, is this serious?]] Calm down, please. I ask all of you to calm down your emotions. Calm down, please. Senator Sławomir Rybicki has the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u508	Mr. Senator, I want to tell you that this committee report is unprecedented, because it accurately, faithfully reproduces... If there's a dispute in this case, I'm going to refer you to the protocol, to what's in the transcript. Everything was done according to the regulations, with care for all the details. This is, I would say, a report that faithfully reflects the proceedings of the committee. Well, that was my role. You may disagree, say it's bad, that it doesn't explain anything, doesn't explain anything. I don't read this application because you should read it yourself. If you're filing a motion... [[Voices from the O.R.: Reported, reported.]] Well, yes, sir. A few hours after, actually... It was obvious that he needed to be heard before the vote. Friday, Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, all day today... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] If you have not read it and now you want to know it, then it is a matter of deciding whether or not you will object. I'd be against it, because it's a shame now to get to know the proposal that was available to all senators. [[Mrs. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u509	Mr. Senator, thank you very much. Thank you all. [[Mrs. Marshal, I'd like to...]] Your senator's formal motion for half an hour's recess has been filed. [[I'd like to make an objection.]] There's a motion against Senator Mark Borowski. But unfortunately, before I vote on this proposal, I have to take a two-minute break because my screen isn't working here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Well, the screen's down, you can check it out. I'd ask your IT guy for help because there's no signal. [[Okay, in the meantime...]] [[We have to turn it on, Mrs. Marshal.]] Mr. Senator, this really isn't serious. [[Very funny, very funny...]] Step over here, please. [[Voice from the room: Shame, shame...]] Ladies and gentlemen, once again, please calm your emotions. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[May I? Mrs. Marshal, can I have it now?]] Please, Senator Marek Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u510	I'd like to, Mrs. Marshal... [[Voice from the room: In what mode?]] I'd like to make an objection. I would like to make an objection and briefly justify it. It's right here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] Here we're dealing with... I don't want to talk about any more obstructions, but this is a giant misunderstanding. Everyone's... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] Quiet, please. Each committee shall sit on its own documents. In each committee, the members of this committee shall receive the documents to be worked on. It's not like the rest of the papers don't get it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Voices from the hall: What do you mean no?]] [[The voice from the room: Well, everyone got it.]] Okay, but not too... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Ladies and gentlemen, could you please remain serious and allow Senator Borowski to justify his request to the contrary?]] Today, for example. We have a law to amend the farmers' social security law. I am very curious whether all the Senators of Law and Justice have been carefully acquainted with this law. [[Voices from the hall: But they all got it, we got the footage.]] Definitely not, definitely not... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Good. I'm closing...]] I'm almost done. I'm almost done. The members of the Rules of Procedure Committee for Law and Justice have been informed that... [[Voice from the room: No. They weren't informed. They weren't informed.]] They stayed because I witnessed it. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: I ask the senators to remain calm.]] They were informed that this document was on the committee for inspection. Therefore, today was the whole day for him to be familiar with, for those who really wanted it, for those who didn't know what they were going to vote on. That's why I'm filing a counterclaim.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u511	Thank you very much. In connection with the request for a half-hour break by Senator Marek Martynowski, I ask the senators: who among the ladies and gentlemen of the senators is in favour of a half-hour break in the session? [[No, no, no, no, no, ……]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Calm down, please. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, 43 senators voted for a break, 51 senators opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 1]] The motion was rejected. We continue: who of you still has a question for the Senator of the rapporteur? Senator, you've checked in before. Senator Vladimir Bernacki. There you go. Wait until Senator Sławomir Rybicki approaches the podium.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u512	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, actually, that question should be raised... I know that it was a formal proposal, but this question concerns precisely the matter which later appeared, because the Senator rapporteur, when he presents the course of the committee, does not only report and discuss who took the position, but above all refers to the content of the act, which is in this case the law. It turns out that in this situation we are also dealing with documents that are sent to us by e-mail. These documents in paper form are here in crawlers. Therefore, the rapporteur is not only talking about the course, he is not only talking about the content, but every senator is equipped with concrete prints and subsequent prints, because since the entry of the bill here to the Senate with the amendments tabled and the debate being held, this is happening. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Question, Mr. Senator.]] However, please pay attention... [[Timer signal]] I ask the question: why, in the case of such an important and important issue as the issue of the waiver of immunity, or, in fact, of consenting to criminal liability in connection with the very specific 4 charges described by the prosecution, are we not discussing these 4 allegations at all? Why... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stank: Time, Mr. Senator.]] ...the Senator rapporteur also completely skipped the content of these 4 reasons for the 4 allegations?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u513	Thank you. Mr. Senator, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u514	Mr. Senator, I didn't miss any... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] ...point, no comment that was at the meeting... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Repeat.]] Mr. Senator, I answer you. You were at the committee meeting. I didn't miss out on any of the speeches, any aspect that was said at the committee meeting. I've accurately recounted the proceedings of the committee. If I didn't say anything, I didn't say that the Senators of Law and Justice had the opportunity to ask Mr. Prosecutor any number of questions, all charges, details, but they didn't ask them. They also had the opportunity to file formal applications for a two-week break so that all senators could read the application and not apply for it either.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u515	Thank you very much. Senator Michael Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u516	Mr President, I have a question: are we not considering, as someone here has demanded, specific allegations that we are not a court, Mr President, but a Senate? The only reason why the Constitution of the Republic imposes an obligation on us to vote on the immunity of one of us is to judge in our conscience whether this proposal is based on political motives or not. And that's the only reason we're discussing it today. Am I right, Mr President? 'Cause it's a question. That we are the Senate of the Republic of Poland and our moral role is to assess whether there is political motivation behind the attack on one of us or the desire for law and justice. And that's what we're here for. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u517	Thank you so much for that question. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u518	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I approached this issue on purpose in my report, not wanting to bring up all these threads, which sound very accusing of the legal system in Poland. A system in which the prosecution can be used as a tool to fight political opponents. But I told the committee at the committee meeting that it was the role of the committee to examine the proposal and to adopt a report which would include a proposal to accept or reject the proposal. And I was reminding you that the committee is not deciding whether or not the Senator concerned is guilty. This also appeared in later threads. Whether this proposal is to discredit whether it is politically motivated or not, whether it is to oppress the senator or not, the committee decides it, not whether it is guilty or innocent. And during the sitting, I have the impression that all the senators have done so in their decisions. It's not whether it's the fault or not, it's whether or not it's the conclusion that most of us have decided that this proposal is clearly a tool to fight politically against the Senate Marshal... [[Voice from the room: Ooh!]] ...and that the practice so far... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] ...the general's attorney has given us reason to believe that the prosecution was not objective in this case.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u519	Thank you very much. Senator Vladimir Bernacki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u520	Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. Is it true that until you interrupted his speech, you were very specific about the events and participation in those events by Marshal Grodzki? That's one thing. Secondly, is it true that the application made by the prosecutor's office contains fragments of the testimony of those who pointed out that they directly gave themselves or that their family members gave the benefit of the estate to Mr. Marshal? Finally, the third point: is it true that the proposal refers to the fact that Senator Grodzki accepted the advantage... that he is accused of accepting a property benefit of no less than... [[Timer signal]] ...24 thousand zlotys?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u521	Mr Senator, it is true that the prosecutor took the floor and first gave the reasons why this request was addressed. Then he answered the senators' free, unfettered questions. In response to one of these questions, he referred to himself as a party to this committee meeting, and I pointed out to the prosecutor that this is a committee meeting where he is the representative of the applicant and not the party, and the committee is not a court to determine whether or not someone is guilty. I will repeat that these questions to your prosecutor were only two senators, and no one censored or restricted those questions. As far as your question on the content of the proposal is concerned, I hope that at least a member of the committee has taken note of the proposal and that you know its content.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u522	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski. I'd like to ask you a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u523	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator President. Art. 8 Rules of Procedure of the Senate The competences of the Senate Marshal: the Senate Marshal And now, paragraph 8 gives way to the cases submitted to the Senate, manages the printing of other documents which are the subject of the Senate's deliberations and the service of them to the senators. Please explain to me whether the Marshal of the Grodzki Senate was responsible for whether or not he assigned these tasks to someone else from the bureau, one of the vice marshals.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u524	You have to ask this not to me as head of the committee, but either the bureau or the Senate marshal. Because as far as the subject matter of the committee is concerned, I have already informed your senators several times, and I do not want to repeat it, although I think I must say that the committee was the subject of a motion that was sent to the committee on 28 April. The next day, this application was granted the status of materials that were placed in the procession.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u525	Excuse me, a little question for the president. Who sent this motion to you? There's gotta be some kind of signature, some kind of handwriting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u526	Mr. Senator, as always, the motion is directed by the Marshal of the Senate, this is a standard of regulation. Even if the Vice-Marshal sign up for this, it's always, in accordance with the rules of procedure, a motion led by the Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u527	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Borowski. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u528	I think Senator Bernacki... yes, Senator Bernacki is persistently trying to find out what the Marshal was accused of, although, to be honest, this case is known to the public because it is described in the press. [[Voice from the room: In what press?]] And he pleads that there were witnesses... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] And he pleads that there were witnesses, that witnesses testified, etc., etc. So I would like to ask the president if you are familiar with the fact that, in fact, the committee was discussed, as long as my memory is correct, that in 2007 Minister Ziobro, with a strong propaganda accompaniment, informed about the breakdown of the corruption arrangement in the Warsaw Council, presented a list of witnesses, statements, documentation. The case was extremely serious... [[The voice from the hall: Right, right...]] [[Voice from the room: What about time?]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, Mr. Senator Pięk said two minutes, I let him finish, let him...]] [[Voices from the hall: Is that okay?]] ...and incredibly serious... [[Vice-Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: I decide.]] They looked extremely serious. [[Voice from the room: Time is up.]] After eight years, the court legally acquitted everyone, only that their lives had been wasted. Was this case discussed at the committee meeting?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u529	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u530	Yes, Mr. Marshal, I mentioned this by mentioning in password those cases of the prosecution's actions during the time of Attorney General Zbigniew Ziebra, which were evidently politically motivated and touched... [[Voices from the Chamber: Was this the subject of the discussion?]] Yes, I quoted Mr. Marshal Borowski's statement in a nutshell, but I can replay from memory this statement, which was long and devastating for the prosecution under the rule of Zbigniew Ziobra. Yes, of course, this case was raised by your marshal as the one that shows how unbelievable, objective and politically motivated was and is the prosecutor's office under the rule of Zbigniew Ziobra, the politician, the head of the political party, the person who, after the reform of the prosecutor's office, after the change of law in 2016, has armed the prosecutor general with a tool to subjugate prosecutors and influence cases. I've already said it, I can say it again... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, sir. Mr. Marshal Borowski, during the meeting you spoke of many such cases, documenting it with dates and speaking about the misfortune that many people have experienced, who have been hunted for many years and were finally acquitted. The point is, I remember your statement to avoid such a situation where we know that the proposal is clearly politically motivated and is intended to destabilise the work of the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u531	Senator Vladimir Bernacki, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u532	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, isn't it a coincidence that the committee meeting, as well as today's plenary session, has turned into a political debate not concerning those acts that are alleged to the marshal? Well, that's surprising. Don't you see this dissonance? And second question. Do you really believe that there is a definite difference between media coverage and the content of the formal proposal prepared by the prosecution?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u533	Mr. Senator, these are questions I'm not gonna answer, because this really wasn't the subject of a committee meeting. They won't answer questions about whether there was anything in the media or not. There's been a lot in the media. I think that the average citizen, who reads and listens, could learn more or less what charges are being made to Marshal Grodzk, and certainly the senators had such knowledge. And if they didn't, they had a chance to read the application. [[Voice from the room: They just didn't.]] As for the proceedings of the committee, Mr. Senator, I have really recreated its course quite faithfully. If there is a debate here that goes beyond the report of the committee's meeting, it is unfortunately caused by those senators who are referring to the threads which were not the subject of the committee's meeting and the interest of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u534	Thank you very much. Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u535	I'd like to ask the senator to present the media aspect of his pursuit of Marshal Grodzki. Many of us, or at least I have such a belief that all these actions of the prosecution immediately went to the media, were discussed. Tell me what you apologized to Mr. Pereira for. Please tell us whether the matter concerning the media prosecution's prosecution has been raised at a committee meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u536	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u537	Senator, she was. I can return to my report and to this part of the speech by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki, in which he presented arguments, gave figures and facts. Indeed, he was the subject of an unprecedented chase, and many media articles attacked him and his family. Threats, criminal threats... I think the marshal will mention it. It was an unprecedented pursuit. If we look for an analogy to events from the latest history of Poland, we can say that there were cases which, in such a case, ended tragically for politicians.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u538	Thank you very much. Senator Jacek Bogucki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u539	Mr President, during the committee meeting, did you discuss the case, a few years ago, of my wife, who as mayor was accused by a prosecutor under the PO-PSL regime for defending the municipality from running a threatening environment and living conditions in the commune of investment? She was charged by a prosecutor who, during a phone call with her... My wife heard, in the background, like an investor, a prospective investor telling the D.A. how to conduct an interrogation. Of course, she was acquitted, subjected to court judgment... [[That's what we think.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] The court found her innocent. But she didn't hide from anybody's immunity... [[Timer signal]] ...just had the courage to go to court in such a situation as a man who defended the environment, defended his people, and didn't take bribes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u540	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u541	Mr. Senator, well, I'll say, of course, this wasn't the subject of the meeting. However, I will remind you, and I will therefore repeat what was the subject of the accusations against the prosecution, which you formulated by Marshal Borowski. This was in 2007, when the Prime Minister was Jarosław Kaczyński and the Attorney General was Zbigniew Ziobro. At the Council of the M.S. Warsaw was an alleged corruption arrangement. It seemed like it was all very serious, but after 8,5 years since the charges were made to people who were subject to irresponsible and unmotivated aggression by the prosecution... After 8.5 years, the court legally acquitted all the defendants. The Witnesses were unbelievable, and the court found that the investigation was under pressure. Such information is impressive and must be taken into account by the senators when making decisions. Whether the D.A.'s office that's applying for immunity waiver to the Senate Marshal is credible or not. And whether there have been situations in the past where the actions of this prosecution could be questioned, its intentions, its transparency and purity, and its nobility. There's been a lot of cases like this. I can still get back to them, because many of them were mentioned at the committee meeting, and I just talked them over a little bit. If you want, I'll discuss them very carefully. They're just shocking, they work in a senator who's sensitive to aspects such as the rule of law, justice, human rights... They were impressed and the majority in this committee felt that such a prosecutor's office did not give the guarantees of proper, transparent conduct.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u542	Thank you very much. Senator Rafał the locksmith. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u543	Mr President, the line of defence that you have adopted is simply the fact that the prosecutor's office is working faultyly, it is not trustworthy, and this proposal must therefore be rejected, even without entering into its merit. Aren't you afraid of the chairman of the precedent that creates such a situation that all senators are at the moment, as long as Minister Ziobro is in charge as a prosecutor, holy cows and they are untouchable, because no one will take away their immunity, because in every case this argument can be repeated? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: No...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u544	Thank you very much. Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u545	Ladies and gentlemen, the creators of the constitution, which in the article. 105 were based on the institution of material and formal immunity, but I think that also all those who have been closely observing the political scene and the situation in Poland for more than 6 years did not expect, could not predict a situation in which such an important body, such as the prosecutor's office, part of the justice system, would be subjected to a political party and used as a political tool. In such a situation, the formal immunity must protect the senator and the Member, because otherwise, as the House, with every pretext, when it is convenient for those in power, and especially for the Attorney General, we will be prosecuted for more or less proven cases. An example is this case that concerns Mr. Marshal Grodzki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u546	Thank you very much. Senator Dorota Czudowska. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u547	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Mr President, without being a member of this committee, I've been a little confused. Are we discussing taking immunity from Marshal Grodzk or District Attorney Ziobrze? [[Exactly. Bravo!]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u548	Senator Rybicki. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u549	I will refer to my report, which was a faithful dedication to the committee meeting, where there were threads on the credibility of the prosecutor's office and the proceedings of the past that prosecutor Ziobro was conducting. I didn't develop them too much, but in a situation where you ask me, I answer. Yes, the credibility of the D.A.'s office is for the senator to make such an important decision, a fundamental question of whether or not he trusts the D.A.'s office. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u550	Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u551	I would like to ask the rapporteur... You say the D.A.'s office is unbelievable... [[I can't hear you.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Please go to the microphone.]] Was the D.A.'s office credible or not? And second question. I opened my own side of the Rules of Procedure Committee and read: examination of the application of the Regional Prosecutor in Szczecin of 14 December 2021, the signature of the file, submitted through the Prosecutor General on 28 December 2021. And you're still saying that in April 2022.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u552	Mr. Senator, for the record, the motion went to the Rules of Procedure Committee on 28 April, and on 29 April I put the matter on the run.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u553	But there's something different on the committee's side, completely. [[Voice from the room:.... Again, again.]] [[Voice from the room: Slow, slow, many times.]] [[Voice from the room: Not nice, gentlemen.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u554	I'm sorry. I'm asking for both parts of the room to remain calm. Senator Sławomir Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u555	I will, of course, say once again that the proposal... but that proves either that some senators are not listening very carefully, or that they want us to have this discussion longer. I can enter into discussions about the situation of the justice system in Poland, about how the Polish system has changed over the last years, how the foundations of our work as a generation of people, as being trampled, trampled into the ground, how the foundations on which we built our patriotism, national pride, our wealth have been destroyed. I can talk about it, of course, because part of that is the justice system... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] ...about the D.A.'s office. [[Voice from the room: But...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please calm down.]] But I'll give you a specific answer. Yes, Mr Senator, the committee received a request, which was the subject of her work, on 28 April this year, and on 29 April I put the matter on the run.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u556	Thank you very much. I don't hear any more questions...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u557	I'd like to ask you a few more questions. I also asked if from 2008 to 2015 this prosecutor's office was so clean, beautiful, pretty and favored everyone.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u558	Mr. Senator, this wasn't on the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u559	Exactly, Mr. Senator, as Marshal Borowski said, it wasn't, and I think it was also considered by... [[Voice from the hall:... That's what he said, no.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] Well, it wasn't, and I think the senators who voted, at least most of them, took that into account.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u560	Thank you very much, Senator, for the report and for the answers to these questions. [[Applause]] According to Art. Article 26 (2) (b) 2 Rules of Procedure of the Senate, the Senate shall examine the report of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs without discussion. The Senator concerned can provide explanations and the senators have the right to ask questions on this matter. Would Senator Thomas Grodzki like to make an explanation? There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u561	Mrs. Marshal! High Senate! I made extensive explanations at the committee's meeting, so let me make them brief. But I'll be ready to answer any questions. We've known each other for a few years, and there's a lot of things you can say about me, but I don't think you can say I'm an idiot and, as director and chief of staff, I've been asking for any kind of money. I strongly stress: I've never taken any bribes from a patient. My story. I was a councilman, a senator, president of the European Society for Thoracic Surgery, president of the Polish Society of Cardio-Torakosurgeons, national consultant, still in the times of Law and Justice, sworn in by forensic experts, so I would be a really complete idiot if I accepted any property benefits. And I would like to stress that with all my power. The hunt for me began exactly the day after the election for the Senate Marshal and before the prosecution made any decision to initiate an investigation. You applied to the prosecutor's office, Mr. Charles Guzikiewicz, who I haven't seen eye to eye, and who has never been my patient. Then he apologized for his Twitter entries, but he didn't withdraw his application. Nevertheless, before the prosecution's decision, the right-wing press had already passed a judgment. I'm thinking right now with one of the editors who wrote right after I chose: we have evidence that Grodzki took a bribe. And there was this chase, over 300 articles in various journals, especially the right-wing ones, which led many of these editors to court. Some of them already apologized to me, some facebook or twitter haters as well. In some cases, the case is in the courts, because, as you know, the courts are acting a little slower than they used to be in the old days. The entire state camera, over 100 CBA agents, has been dumped, searching 23 locations. More than 180 though it seems that more witnesses than this last article in the right-wing press, of which you could read if you did not read the election paper. Tedious questions in the CBA. No: Did you give bribes, just: How much did you give? It's not voluntary, it's just, you're supposed to come in because you're going to pay $3,000 or you're going to be arrested. That's no reason to be proud, but in terms of my stalking, I think, I could get to third place after Prime Minister Tusk and President Trzaskowski. I'm not talking about the criminal threats I applied to the D.A.'s office in the hope that she'll pursue them with equal enthusiasm. Not once have the unsub been found, even though my security officers reported one of those disgusting haters on a tray with an address and a place to stay. Somehow there was no enthusiasm on the prosecution's side. All this relates to my service to Poland as Marshal of the Senate, which is why I perceive it as a strict political action. To prove what the D.A.'s office didn't want to take into account. In short, I'll present some letters by hand that my patients have written to me. 1997 - one of the dates I was suspected of. My husband brought me a bouquet of flowers, cake and coffee to thank the chief for his treatment. And what a surprise it was when Dr. Grodzki shook my hand, told me to give a treat to the nurses, and all he had to do was shake hands. I'm prepared to testify in court. Yeah, I remember. It's later years. When you came to see my husband at night to see how he was feeling, how he was. You came straight from the Senate to ask about your health, check your assignments. I'm grateful that you extended my husband's life. The master who declares himself as a former member of the PiS and a faithful sympathizer of this party: "I have been operated on, I have removed my lung cancer, I have paid no one, and the professor has even made a visit at night, always super-oriented and involved in the treatment process. He was well-informed in my views, but it didn't matter much to him. I used the hospital in Zdun for many years, and I know how it was ruined, how the director covered his job, and in what excellent condition he left him. Patient from America: Prof. Grodzki, agreeing to a little-known surgery in Zdun, when he was denied this procedure even in the United States, no hospital took it there, led to the fact that two difficult surgeries healed my husband and extended his life for several years. All of this was selfless. Professor Grodzki I will never forget that for free, he completely selflessly took care of our child, who had bitten through the mercury thermometer and had mercury in his lungs. We desperately sought help from doctors from all over the world, and the professor diagnosed the child, calmed us down and assured us that he was safe, and when his daughter grew up, he would like to meet her. We'll never forget it. I have several dozen such accounts, completely spontaneously written by people. In my professional life, I have always been motivated by my expertise and willingness to help people by putting my emotions aside. I'm also trying to do this here, leading such an excellent group of ladies and senators in the Senate, working as a marshal for the entire Senate. If I was driven by bad emotions, which I think happened to me once, then I want to apologize to someone who knows what's going on. It's never gonna happen again. I am ready to answer all your questions and at the same time I ask you to understand that the allegations against me are often made relatively relative: I was not there, but I heard, Mom said that. One patient said he gave me money, and then it turned out he gave it to someone else. I can tell you the details, but it's not the Senate's job. I ask you to make an objective decision without negative emotions and a rational decision in the vote. Once again, I have never taken money from patients, and all the more so I have not made any surgery or treatment dependent on the payment of money. I am at your disposal if you have any questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u562	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Do any of you senators want to ask a question about this? Senator Wojciech Skurkiewicz, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u563	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, one key issue. We do not question your scientific, professional and your achievements, because you certainly have one, and in many areas absolutely pioneering. We touch ethical issues and... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Question.]] Wait a minute. Please pay attention to one point. This isn't a media chase that journalists invented. It was Professor Popiela who, after your choice, published the entry that started the storm. So please don't resent journalists because journalists report life, and life has been brutal for you. My question is: how many cases have you made? [[Timer signal]] How many cases are pending before the Polish courts about the violation of your personal property, say, in Warsaw, in Szczecin, other cities? How many cases have you done in total?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u564	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u565	If you're asking about Professor Popiela, it's worth talking about the whole thing. First she said she had to give, then she said she didn't have to, but she felt psychological pressure, and then she was wrong about rooms and people. She lost to me at first instance, and she was going to apologize. The case is in appeal right now, and I shouldn't disclose anything from the court's work in secret, but I'll say that the case has been detained because the person I'm accusing has to be examined by an expert. I'm not gonna tell you what it is because it would be a violation of a secret. So much for the case. And Mr. Charles Guzikiewicz, who later apologized to me on Twitter, had nothing to do with me, I didn't even see him. I've been all these years... I've become famous for bringing people back to their memories, because all these years, no one's ever remembered giving me a bribe. Whether he wanted to give or to give. ♪ In the air ♪ ♪ Okay, I'll say it again. The day after choosing me to be a marshal of people, it kind of enlightened me. If, in a situation where there are 200 witnesses, the prosecutor scraped four statements, and he doesn't take into account 196 others, then I have the right to suspect that these were statements either forced or given by PiS supporters, especially in the light of the words of Mr. Staszczyk, my patient who testified in the prosecution's office that a man had come to him, offering him a pensioner For him, this is a significant sum of PLN 5,000 for slandering me and giving me an unfavorable statement. The case was filed in the D.A.'s office, in the stairwell of the block where Mr. Staszczyk lives, there's surveillance. Like all of me, it was over without a result. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Thank you very much. Mr. Senator...]] And the case... I don't remember, but I think there were ten cases of defamation that I've done to people, and I'm not gonna tell them exactly, but I'm sure there were more than eight of them.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u566	Thank you very much. Senator Skurkiewicz. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u567	Just one remark, Mr. Marshal. Remember and be aware that what happened, in the case of Professor Popieli, this ostracism and the unpleasantness of this woman by the academic community in Szczecin... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Please calm down.]] ... led to a gigantic peripetia for her. You will admit that it was certainly, especially for a woman, difficult to bear. But one more question. You mentioned that about 10 cases you filed. My question is more technical: do you bear the costs of legal representation, legal services as a defamed person, or the Senate Office, which you represent as a Senate marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u568	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u569	Mr. Minister, about Mrs. Popieli... I didn't know this one at all because I treated her mother a long time ago. Mrs. Popieli's troubles in a small town like Szczecin, as I later learned retrospectively, have been heard for 30 years, so I don't feel guilty. But also look at it so that I led the life of a respected professor, and one entry, later denied and chaotically altered, slandered me, and this will probably accompany me for the rest of my life. Let's start with that. About the second question... I should be offended, but you obviously didn't listen to me say you could assign me all sorts of flaws, but not that I'm an idiot. It's obvious that I pay for it with my own money, the firm has nothing to do with it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u570	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, really, ladies and gentlemen. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Marek Pak. There you go. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, Mr. Senator. Mr. Senator Blackbay, please calm down. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Senator Pikle, ask me a question. [[Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Marshal, I...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[I can't hear anything.]] Calm down, please! Calm down, please! [[I'm asking you to stop this.]] Calm down, please! [[Shame on the Senate.]] [[I have such a feeling he's...]] [[One big shame.]] [[Yeah, that's right, you're right.]] [[You're confirming it.]] [[You're right.]] [[Thank you so much. Ask Rooster's family how he is! How to defend the Rooster here... if there's any shame...]] Mr. Senator... [[I'm gonna leave because such stupid, rude questions are being asked in the Senate...]] [[Voice from the room: You come out, we'll have peace.]] Senator, don't be nervous. Please lower your emotional level, because none of us need it. [[It's probably for the ethics committee...]] Mr. Senator Mark, I need you to ask me a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u571	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal, I am still persistently returning to this issue, which, however, is of great importance to me and is also of great importance to the public, but also to this whole atmosphere and climate, which you have also spoken of here, around you and around this matter, namely the symbolic 422 days we have been waiting for, to finally come to this moment, which is a certain standard in politics. No one here determines your guilt, none of the senators here said that you should go to prison, that you committed those acts that are being accused of... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...but there is a great expectation that you will set a high moral and political standard here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] And you did... [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] ...in those 422 days, everything to show this matter as just a deeply political, deep relativized matter. You stood up for yourself as a judge. You have frozen this proposal without any translation, without any justification for more than a year. And yesterday, suddenly, at the committee meeting, we heard the D.A.'s statement that between April's motion... [[Voice from the room: Question.]] ...and the December proposal... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Ask me a question.]] Come on, I'm on my way... There's no difference. So there's a reason... [[Timer signal]] ...that all of this took so long? Why didn't we consider this conclusion many, many months ago, normally, calmly, why couldn't we take this verdict, but you have led us to such a situation that we've just been speculating that there are other, unknown motivations behind your decision?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u572	Thank you. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u573	Mr. Marshal, as we are talking about standards, let us mention that in the Seym the immunity of one of the vice ministers lasted four years, one of the vice ministers from PiS, and even from Solidarna Polska. The immunity of one of your vice-marshals lasted three years, and at the end there was a vote against the waiver of immunity. So much for standards. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I'm translating it again, even though you said it to Senator Rybicki. The first request was received on 17 March 2021. And he was just signed by an unauthorized person. He was sent back after a short formal review. He sailed on March 22nd to make it clear. You sent him away, Marshal Borusewicz, because I wanted out of this case. The proposal has been corrected, i.e. signed by the right person. However, it contained... The proposal should concern acts that are punishable, and there was epistolography and almost a vivisection of my life, which went beyond the nature of the proposal. And Mr. Marshal Borusewicz sent him away, saying that the second reference is finishing the race. And here I'd like to explain, because you're not listening to Senator Rybicki. On December 29th, the D.A.'s office filed a retrial, and it's not true what the D.A. said. Maybe he didn't hear it either. That's the same conclusion as in April. Well, it's not the same one. The previous ones, sent back, had I don't want to get into the point of 29 pages, the latter has 25 pages, so it's true that the prosecutor claims that they were the same conclusions, even without reading them, that's not true. And this December proposal has been re-evaluated by a legislative review... [[Six months.]] ...not six months, it's May, so four months. And he went to committee in April this year. The same one from December. That's the obvious truth. And Mr Rybicki handed it over to the committee members, and I don't remember, on May 13th, a little sad, because on my birthday, but it'll be there. And this request is being dealt with by the High Senate. I wish it were clear and understandable. There were 3 conclusions: the first Incorrectly signed, the other is the same, only signed correctly, sent back because it went beyond the nature of the charges and the third that was subject to the procedure. I think we wanted to be careful that we didn't get any faults. I don't think it's too long compared to four years.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u574	Thank you very much. Senator Skurkiewicz, please. Mr. Senator Crack, then. Okay, let's do it again.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u575	Mr. Marshal, well, I'm only going to allow myself to comment in one sentence: it was clearly stalling, not acting without undue delay. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, question.]] But let's say that's my grade. And by continuing with a certain thought... Don't you think the marshal that you think I totally accept it, too. That all these allegations are false, that the proposal is inadequate, it would be best, too, to go back to setting a very high moral standard, if the marshal simply voluntarily gave up this immunity? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Over a year ago. Just like the senators sitting in those benches did. Because it seems to me that this is already an increasingly common standard. You'd be facing an independent court, equipped with very good patrons, whom we've seen in your company in the Senate. Wouldn't that be the easiest way to end this case? Best for you, best for the Senate, best for the good name of the Senate, and best for a certain established standard in this area. [[Timer signal]] Because, after all, the motion against you as a marshal of the House... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Marshal...]] ...is a precedent.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u576	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u577	As you can see, it's not necessarily because you were also involved in the Vice-Marshal of the Sejm of the current term of office. But, Mr. Marshal, I understand that you wish me something that you specifically presented to Marshal Borowski, only you left the committee as a guest in five minutes. Like Mrs. Blida's case. Knocking at 6:00 and the Senator's death. I understand you'd love it if I was brought out in handcuffs at 6:00. There'd be a couple of TV stations there by chance. Then I'd be taken to Rzeszow. That's the story of Ziobra's attorney's office. If I had... Here in this courtroom is an experienced senator who... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...can tell you exactly how it's done. And he naively believed in the impartiality of the D.A.'s office. After a year, nothing. The trial goes on for four years... [[Voice from the room: 5.]] ...or five, and an average of eight. I understand you'd be delighted. But I would if I had a shadow of faith that the Attorney's Office is an independent prosecutor. And many facts contradict this, ranging from the Kwasniewski family to the Blida family, to Pegasus, etc. [[Voice from the room: After the Gawłowski family.]] ...and Senator Gawłowski, I would consider giving up this immunity. Ask your vice marshal that question. Why didn't she give up? Ask them to the others. Immunity, as you presented Marshal Borowski very precisely and devastatingly at the committee meeting, was invented in order to protect politicians from abuse of power, in particular from intentional harassment by law enforcement authorities. And he was in the process of creating a new constitution. And it must be said that this principle applies both ways, of course. How am I supposed to think about the impartiality of the Attorney General and in the same person the Minister of Justice, the head of the party, a member of the governing coalition and a man who should be responsible for damage to great value, because for a year he deprives Poland of many billions from the European Union. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u578	Thank you very much. [[Mrs. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator... Mr. Senator... [[Mrs. Marshal, but listen to what I'm trying to say.]] I'll sign you up again. [[No, I just want to correct it because the marshal put it in my mouth...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] In corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u579	Yes, and very briefly. Mr. Marshal, for God's sake, I don't wish you such a fate as you have presented here, because I think this is a complete... [[But that's how it's done in your D.A.'s office.]] ...that this is total mythology and science fiction. [[Joy in the Chamber]] I just wish you would stand before the justice system bravely, on the principle that everyone is equal to the law, and that you simply show that you are an honorable, courageous man... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator...]] ...and innocent. Nothing else.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u580	Mr. Senator, this is not a discussion. Do you have a question? [[And nothing else.]] Thank you very much. Senator Wojciech Necessary. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Calm down, please. Senator Wojciech Necessary asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u581	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Marshal! Professor! I have a question for you... Of course, give the numbers approximately, because I know it's not going to be easy. How many surgeries have you performed in one year, the one that includes accusations that are directed against you? How much did the professor of medicine in Poland earn at that time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u582	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u583	Thank you very much. Senator, as I included the department's chiefship in 1995 as the youngest chief of chest surgery in Poland The branch was later transformed into a clinic of about 100 treatments per year. I did most of the work myself because young colleagues were early in training, or assisted them. When I was elected Speaker of the Senate, my deputy started taking care of the clinic. We already have 3 professors or habilitation doctors, we do more than 1,000 treatments a year. Even as a senator, I normally operated on a few hundred people a year. Now I operate less as a volunteer. I do it on Monday mornings without taking a shadow of money. I also operate in support of young colleagues, helping them in difficult cases. The assistant's salary, the doctor's salary, then the doctor's habilitation, the professor's not particularly impressive. Life forced me as a young wife to go as a doctor after bread on ships, which was then extremely popular in Szczecin. Many doctors were earning there at a time when the dollar was clearly overestimated. The salary usually deviated from the demands of the medical or trade union representatives of doctors who expected three times the national average, four times the national average, etc. I can say that coming to the Senate meant a lot of material loss to me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u584	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Bogusława Orzechowska remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u585	Mr. Marshal! At the committee meeting we heard and now we hear about the lack of credibility of the prosecutor's office. But it's not the D.A.'s office. It's the court's ruling. Wouldn't you like an independent court to clear you of all these charges? You'd have a chance to clear your name. Aren't you afraid this case is gonna go on for how long? I think such a cleansing would give you the best chance to prove your innocence and your credibility, and that you deserve your position and respect fully. Wouldn't you like that?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u586	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to the marshal, I will remind the senator asking the question that Mr. Marshal Tomasz Grodzki had just meticulously responded. It's basically the same question. So that this question is absolutely unwarranted at this point. That's repeating. [[Mrs. Marshal, if I may... here, however...]] No, you can't. If the marshal wants to answer... [[Why can't I?]] ...for this question, please. [[About the formal issue, Mrs. Marshal. However, these were not the same questions, because a new thread appeared here. Don't you think the marshal that this case is just going to keep following your marshal?]] Mr. Senator, I didn't give you the floor. Sign up for the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u587	Mrs. Senator and Mr. Marshal, you both know that if the court clears me and I'm cleaner than a newborn's butt, I'm gonna have the ostrich resting on me. Just like our other colleague, marshal, surgeon, who's being dragged by a warm man. That's the cost of doing politics. And in reply to the senator, I would like to make it clear that each of us, whether believers or unbelievers, accounts first and foremost in our own conscience. My conscience in this matter is absolutely pure. Before the court of God, we will probably be responsible for our good and bad deeds, and meanwhile, our fate will be decided by the voters who will judge whether I was credible or unbelievable. I'm pretty calm here because I've been treating ok all these years. Twenty-five thousand people have just received about four applications, and the youngest one is from 2012, then nothing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u588	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Czerwinski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u589	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Marshal, I don't judge your activities prior to being a senator because I haven't read this proposal, and I haven't had the opportunity. But even if I read it, I wouldn't judge either. That's what the court is for. But, you know, there used to be this first person in a country who also had charges, smaller or larger, and then the behaviour of that first person in the state made it clear whether those allegations were true or not. It's just... Well, I'm not gonna talk about it anymore. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] Mr. Marshal, tell me: why have you been acting so out of your league with this proposal? You rejected him under any pretext. Because I believe that in the first two cancellations of this request or references there were formal pretexts, secondly, you did not make available information on this subject, which I have in writing, thirdly, you prevented most senators from hearing this request.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u590	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u591	I will answer this question briefly because it has been discussed many times already. The entire proposal was transposed in full compliance with the Senate Rules on these issues.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u592	Thank you very much. No further questions. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]] The vote on this issue will be held immediately after consideration of this point. I'm in charge of a five-minute break right now. And after these five minutes, the vote will take place. [[Voice from the room: 10 minutes.]] Ten minutes. This is where they tell me ten... so that's a ten-minute break. [[Adjournment from 22 minutes 03 to 22 minutes 17]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u593	I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Magdalena Kochan. The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee proposes that Ms Agnieszka Dudzińska's application, represented by Michał Pratkowski's lawyer, should be rejected, that the Senate of the Republic of Poland consent to the criminal liability of Senator Magdalena Kochan. We'll proceed with the vote. Let me remind you that the Senate agrees that the senator should be held liable by a resolution taken by an absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority of votes means the adoption of a resolution on non-approval of the senator's criminal liability. Who's in favour of allowing Senator Magdalena Kochan to be held liable? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? One Senator from the remote, please take a look... Can Senator Szejnfeld point out if... Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, no one was in favour, 99 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 2]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the non-expression of consent to the criminal liability of Senator Magdalena Kochan. We would like to refer to item 14 of the agenda: consent to the criminal liability of Senator Tomasz Grodzki. The Rules of Procedure Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs proposes that the application of the regional prosecutor in Szczecin be rejected by the Minister of Justice, the Attorney General, to allow the Senate of the Republic of Poland to hold Senator Tomasz Grodzki liable. Let me remind you that the Senate agrees with the absolute majority of the statutory number of senators. Failure to obtain the required majority means the adoption of a resolution on non-approval of criminal liability. We'll proceed with the vote. Who is in favour of allowing Senator Tomasz Grodzki to be held liable? Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 47 for, 52 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 3]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the non-expression of consent to the criminal liability of Senator Tomasz Grodzki. We return to the examination of the first item of the agenda: the law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 710 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Act on informationization of activities of entities carrying out public tasks. We are returning to the second agenda: the Act amending the Investment Act in the field of the regasification terminal of liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 700 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution in full, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 5]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 47 for, 50 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 7]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has taken... [[He didn't take the floor because it was 47...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: They were against.]] [[Voice from the hall: You have to vote again.]] [[Voice from the Chamber: We are voting on rejection now, because there was no whole acceptance...]] What do you mean, no? Along with the amendments that have been made... [[Voice from the Chamber: But in the vote on the whole majority were against.]] And that concludes the case because the bill has been... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, but in case of rejection of all proposals or amendments tabled. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Why? [[Voice from the room: Because that's the rule book.]] [[Voice from the room: Because you changed the rules.]] After explaining to the legislator... [[Talking in the O.R.]] In the event of rejection of the applications contained in print No 700 A, we shall proceed, in accordance with Article. 54 (1) (a) 1a of the Senate Rules of Procedure, to vote on the motion to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 49 for, 47 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 8]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Investments in the Regasification Terminal for liquefied natural gas in Świnoujście and some other laws. Counselor, I'm gonna have to ask you later with this policy... We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Copernican Academy Act. The Scientific, Education and Sports Committee presented a draft resolution in which it requested the rejection of the law; Senate printing No 702 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favor of rejecting this bill? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] [[Voice from the room: Done.]] We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising. The Committee on Culture and Media presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 711 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Excuse me, can Senator Nutchowska take a look at the signal? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the establishment of the National Day of the Silesian Uprising. We return to the examination of item five of the agenda: the law amending the Foreign Service Act and some other laws. The Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union presented a draft resolution in which it requested the rejection of the law; Senate printing No 703 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committee to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 Senators voted 52 for, 46 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 11]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Foreign Service and some other laws. We return to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and some other laws. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes amendments to the law. In addition, a minority of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has put forward proposals for amendments to the law. All the amendments presented are contained in print No 698 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We'll proceed with the vote. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Minority application No 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 14]] Minority Proposal No 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. The votes were 98 senators, 52 votes for, 45 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 15]] Minority Proposal No 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 16]] Note that minority proposals 4 and 7 must be voted together. The adoption of these proposals will rule out voting on amendment 3 of the majority. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 54 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 17]] Minority motion number five. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 54 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 18]] Minority application No 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 Senators voted, 97 in favour, no one opposed, one Senator abstained. [[Voting No 20]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Veterinary Inspection and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing Nos 699 A and 699 B. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees for the adoption of the law without amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Social Insurance for Farmers. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance has presented a draft resolution requesting amendments to the Act; Senate printing No 701 A. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on, followed by a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Yes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u594	I'd like to make a formal motion. Because at the committee meeting on all these amendments, which are editorial and legislative in nature, we voted... [[Voice from the room: In total.]] ...in total. Therefore, if there is no objection, we could vote on them together. [[Voice from the room: In total.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-18-senat-42-1.u595	If the High House agrees to such a vote... [[Amendment 1.]] In general, Amendments 1 and 3 are editorial in nature, Amendment 2 aims to align the content of the provision with the established rules for shaping the legal language, Amendments 4, 6 and 7 seek to adapt the wording of the amending instructions to the principles of legislative technique. If the Senate agrees... [[Mr. Marshal, if I may say one more word... at the committee meeting, the Minister supported these...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Therefore, I am managing the collective vote on Amendments 1 and 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, the Senate has passed a resolution... Oh, I'm sorry, I'm sorry... We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 25]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending certain laws in order to automate the handling of certain matters by the National Tax Administration. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on VAT on goods and services and certain other laws. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate printing No 715 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on Tax on Goods and Services and on certain other laws. We return to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Act on personal income tax. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No. 694 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Magdalena Kochan to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 53 for, no one opposed, 45 abstained. [[Voting No 27]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on personal income tax and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 645 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Alexander Pociej to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, 52 for, 44 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 28]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Prison Service Act and some other laws and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Aleksander Pociy to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law of. Code of Criminal Procedure and the Law of Law of Lawyer. I would like to remind you that today a report has been presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion has been held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No. 636 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Alexander Pociej to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Senator Tyszkiewicz voting? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-eight senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 29]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on Criminal Procedure and the Law on Attorney's Law and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this bill to the Sejm. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Aleksander Pociy to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. Dear Senators, I'm about to announce a recess until 10 a.m. tomorrow. Once the meeting is resumed, we will consider the following point: Information from the President of the Council of Ministers on the possibility of mobilising funds for the Republic of Poland from the Instrument for Reconstruction and Improvement of Immunity of the European Union. I'm calling for a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 22 minutes 48]]
