ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u1	Please take your seats. I open the 30th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term of office. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I hereby appoint Senator Mariusz Gromka, Senator Jerzy Wcisla, Senator Alexander Swede and Senator Richard Świlski to the sitting. Senator Mariusz Gromko will be the first to lead the list of speakers. Dear Senators! As a result of the epidemic, after consulting the Seniors Convention, I decided to give this meeting a special formula. The meetings will be held simultaneously in a traditional way and using means of distance communication, i.e. remotely. The rules for the participation of senators in Senate meetings in a remote manner are laid down in Article. 67b Senate Rules of Procedure. The Senators participating in the meeting remotely, please make sure that your iPads are connected to the power supply and the cameras are turned on. Please also ensure that the iPad position and camera lens are visible during the connection. You can subscribe to questions and speak in the discussion via chat in the application. Legislative requests, speeches and statements should be sent by e-mail to the address previously sent to you by the Senate Office. There is also a special telephone number at your disposal, under which you can consult the content of proposals of a legislative nature or the notification of technical problems. Please do not turn on the microphones yourself. It will be possible to speak only after it has been given by the Marshal and after the launch of the microphone by the informatics of the Senate Office. I also inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If one of your senators fails to join the session before blocking the session in the application or if one of you loses the call, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 86 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting, although this number is increasing. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On 23 December 2021, Senator Maria Berny, Senator III and V of the term of office died. She served as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture, Media, Physical Education and Sport and was a member of the Rules of Procedure and Senators' Affairs in the 3rd term of office and worked as Vice-President of the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on National Defence and Public Security in the 5th term of office in the 5th term of office. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the late Senator. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give her eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon her."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, tonight Mr David Sassoli, President of the European Parliament, died. Please rise and celebrate with a minute of silence the memory of the late chairman. [[Everybody up.]] [[A moment of silence]] [[Give him eternal rest, Lord.]] [[The gathered answer, "Let eternal light shine upon him."]] [[May he rest in eternal peace.]] [[The assembled answer: Amen.]] Thank you very much. High Senate, I inform you that on 7 October 2021 the President of the Council of Ministers gave the Senate a report on the implementation of the National Family Violence Action Programme for the period from 1 January to 31 December 2020. It is contained in print No 524. The report was addressed to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and to the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. I would like to inform you that the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy at its meeting on 18 November 2021 took note of the document and that the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions took note of it at its meeting on 11 January 2022. I would like to inform you that the Sejm, at its forty-fifth meeting on 17 December 2021, adopted all the amendments tabled by the Senate to the Act amending certain laws in connection with the establishment of the Central Cybercrime Office. The Sejm also accepted most of the Senate's amendments: to the Act amending the Act on Foreigners and some other laws; to the Act on one-off provision of money for activists of the anti-communist opposition and those repressed for political reasons; to the Act on voluntary firefighters; to the Act on the Establishment of the Police Modernization Programme, Border Guards, State Fire Guard and State Protection Service in the years 2022 to 202525, on the Establishment of the "Program for the Modernization of Prison Service in the years 2022 to 2025 and on the amendment of the Law on Police and certain other laws. The Sejm adopted part of the Senate's amendments: to the Law on Special Solutions for the Implementation of the Budget Law for 2022; to the Act on the Amendment of the Act on the NBP and the Law on Criminal Code; to the Act on the Amendment of Certain Acts in connection with the Extension of the Implementation of the Rural Development Programme for 2014 In addition, at the same meeting, the Sejm rejected all the amendments of the Senate: to the Law amending the Law on Forests and the Law on Nature Conservation; to the Act amending the Law on Special Solutions related to the Prevention, Prevention and Control of COVID-19, other communicable diseases and to certain other crises caused by them; to the Law amending the Law on Civil Code, the Law on Civil Procedure and certain other laws; to the Act amending the Law on Excise Tax and certain other Acts on Senate Printing No 591; to the Act amending the Act on Excise Tax and certain other Acts on Senate Printing No 592. The Sejm rejected the Senate's resolution rejecting the Law on the amendment of the Public Procurement Act and the Act on certain contracts concluded in connection with the execution of contracts of fundamental importance for State security, as well as the Senate's resolution rejecting the Act on the amendment of the Act on Radiophony and Television. In the absence of any objections to the minutes of the thirty-second meeting, I declare that the minutes of this meeting have been adopted. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-third Senate meeting, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, are prepared to be made available to the senators. If no one of your senators raises objections to it, it will be adopted at the next sitting. Mr and Mrs Senators, the draft agenda has been placed on senators' benches. I propose to consider point seven of the draft agenda, although the committee's report on the draft resolution on the revision of the Senate Rules of Procedure was submitted at a later date than specified in the Rule. Article 34 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 2 Senate Rules of Procedure. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. I propose deleting the point: the appointment of members of the Monetary Policy Council. The reason is not to complete the administrative procedures related to the appointment of those 2 members who are now entitled to us in January. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Would any of your senators like to speak on the agenda? I don't see any calls. I state that the Senate approved the agenda of the 30th meeting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland X term. I would like to inform you that the vote on the budget bill will be held tomorrow, in the afternoon or evening hours. The remaining votes will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Maybe it'll all be together. I would like to inform you that an hour's adjournment will be announced today at 5:30 p.m. I would also like to inform you that the agenda can be supplemented by a point on the establishment of an Extraordinary Commission to clarify cases of illegal surveillance, their impact on parliamentary elections in 2019 and the reform of special services. Today, at the Seniors Convention meeting, a proposal was made by a group of senators to set up this emergency committee. The Senior Convention has identified the number of seats available to senators in this committee, i.e. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice 2 Senators, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition 3 Senators, Senators' Circle Coalition Poland 1 Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Senator, Representatives of clubs and circles are asked to gather senators' applications, according to the number of seats appointed by the convention, to the Senate Marshal by 5 p.m. I further inform you that point four, i.e. Act on the amendment of the Act on the Institute of National Remembrance, the Commission for the Investigation of Crimes against the Polish Nationals, will be examined at the request of the IPN on the second day of the meeting. At the same time, I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention has given an opinion on the revision of the 30th session of the Senate, which will take place on the old date, 2rd and 3rd February. It's not February 1st and February 2nd, it's February 2rd and February 3rd. That's a lot of cleanup calls. We proceed with the first item on the agenda: the budget law for 2022. The Senate Marshal sent the Budget Act to the Senate Committee. Allow me not to mention all the names of the committee. After considering the relevant budgetary parts, the Senate committees forwarded their opinions to the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, which produced a report on this matter on the basis of which. The text of the act is contained in print No 601, and the report of the committee In print No 601 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u2	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance a report on the work of our committee on the Budget Act 2022. Mr. Marshal, High Izbo, the budget bill is the most important piece of legislation the Senate deals with during the year. Because this is the decision of the Sejm, the Senate, the government, the president, who is talking about how we will function next year, this year, in 2022, because the budget is always prepared a year earlier. This is a decision which should concern the most important issues relating to revenue, expenditure of the state budget, all state institutions. This decision concerns the lives of all citizens, and those working in the budgetary sphere, and those who keep up with the income earned in their companies, in their businesses or employed as employees in different companies and institutions. So it is very important for me, for our committee, even the most important decision we make during the year, every year of work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, and, as we believe, the Senate. Our report on the committee's work on the state budget for 2022 was included in print No. 601 A. The Committee on Budget and Public Finance met several times, working on the Budget Law for 2022. On 23 December 2021, the Senate Marshal sent the Budget Act to the Senate industry committees. Those committees at meetings on 4 and 5 January this year. they considered the parts of the budget allocated to them, analysed them, prepared opinions and proposed amendments. The Committee on Budget and Finance met at its meeting on 4 January and at its meetings on 5 January. And on 5 January we prepared a final position, which is contained in the above mentioned printing. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances invites the High House to adopt the Budget Act together with 16 amendments which have been adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. At the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, a minority request was also made to adopt a law without amendment. This proposal will be discussed by the rapporteur for the minority proposal. At its meeting on 4 January this year, the Commission listened to the Government's opinion and position on the Budget Law. Mr Skuz, who worked with us on the budget law, like other ministers from other ministries, presented the entire budget law. I will not, given the limited time the Senator has, discuss this law. The Minister will probably inform us of all its assumptions, but I would like to discuss the work itself, how we worked at the meetings of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances and industry committees. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finance had previously asked three experts to prepare an opinion on the Budget Law, i.e. then a draft budget law for 2022. The authors of these opinions were Prof. Maciej Cieślukowski and Prof. Piotr Krajewski; Prof. Piotr Krajewski is from the University of Lodz and you are Prof. Cieślukowski from the University of Economics in Poznań. We also asked for an opinion from Hanna Majszczyk, who worked for the Ministry of Finance for many years, was a Deputy Minister of Finance in this Ministry and is also a well-known authority in matters relating to public finances. These were very interesting and important studies. These studies were discussed by the members of the committee, but also by all of you, you were able to familiarize yourselves with the work of individual experts. I'll get back to that expertise. Now I would like to discuss those amendments that have been adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. As I said, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance recommends that the High House adopt 16 amendments which show the priorities that the Committee on Budget and Public Finance thinks most of this committee should accompany us in this year's work in 2022. So, first of all, we have pointed out that the budget law for 2022 should include measures... And that's amendment one. There should be a clear increase in salaries for teachers who have worked and are still working in very difficult covid conditions with young people. And it's their commitment, well, it's very important. At the same time, the remuneration of teachers, according to the trade unions of teachers, all, but also the whole environment, well, clearly departs from salaries in other sectors. For this purpose, for this increase in teachers' salaries, we propose to take into account the amount of PLN 6.5 billion. This increase in remuneration, together with a change in the remuneration base, should apply from 1 January this year. The second block of cases, which, according to the committee, is important This is also in line with the government's policy, and this has also been mentioned before. This is the allocation of special funds, the creation of a special fund for energy transformation, the amount of PLN 10 billion to be used for this purpose. This issue of energy transformation that we are talking about, which is extremely important at the moment, is constantly overlooked in such a fundamental way. And the point is to clearly articulate it and make such clear investments in this area. Another important issue and this is the biggest amendment in our budget This is an amendment increasing resources for the National Health Fund for the functioning of health services. We set aside 20 billion PLN for this purpose, this is the proposal to increase the subsidy by 20 billion PLN. This is a significant increase, but we believe that health care is the most important priority this year. Because we know how difficult it is, also in view of the pandemic situation, health care is. This increase by 20 billion PLN is an increase almost 20% in relation to the resources available to the National Health Fund. We also propose an increase in the remuneration for administrative staff in the courts and prosecutors' offices, police administration and border guards. These are the fourth and fifth amendments. Staff, administrations working for these services are clearly less remunerated than would have been the case in the situation and condition of all employees in Poland. For this purpose we anticipate a total amount of PLN 690 million. We brought it back at the same time. This is Amendment No 3 of the measures by which the Sejm reduced the educational subsidy for local governments to finance tasks for national and ethnic minorities and those who speak the regional language, i.e. the Kashubian language. It was a reduction of PLN 39 million 800 thousand. And the Sejm decided that these funds were used to finance Polish language teaching in Germany. The Commission does not propose to remove this reserve for the financing of Polish language learning. We believe that if this comes from the priorities of the government, the government has the right to make such a decision. Nevertheless, we believe that reducing subsidies for national minorities, ethnic minorities, Kashubian speakers is simply unacceptable. And this case caused large protests in Poland and many senators signed under this amendment. This was an amendment prepared by the Committee on Science, Education and Sport. We also propose that it be financed, as a special reserve, by the operation of trust phones. During the committee meeting, Senator Frost asked if it should be a phone, a singular phone or a plural telephone. This line is kind of... We don't want to decide that. This is the minister's business. The reserve is intended for the Minister to organize this, to announce a competition for the operation of a phone or a trust phone, so that it simply starts functioning. As we know, in recent times the phone of trust, which already has a long, long tradition in Poland, has practically stopped working. Guaranteeing the funding for the launch of this programme seems reasonable. We want this not to be a tragedy. Another amendment is an amendment prepared by the petition committee, but modified by the budget committee. This is a question of financing 2 special services, the Intelligence Agency and the Internal Security Agency. It turned out that the draft budget for 2022 reduced the budget of these institutions to almost 80% the budget of the previous year. These services at committee meetings clearly indicated that such a significant reduction of resources will practically prevent their operation. It was basically the biggest cut in the state budget in relation to the budget of the previous year. And we have decided that the funds will be earmarked for this purpose. Another important amendment is the amendment returning funds for the financing of the Polish Senate. The money that was under the responsibility of the Foreign Minister and the President of the Council of Ministers is to return. This is the amount of PLN 75 million. We do not touch the resources that are at the Ministry of Culture for this purpose. We also object. That's Amendment Ten. The issue of bonds for public television. Very important amendments are amendment 11th and amendment 12th in our compilation. They realise inflation rates. I'm sure you've noticed, you've pointed out that the Budget Act for the current year is a law in which inflation rates are assumed to be... This budget law has been drawn up on the basis of unrealistic, unreal indicators. The individual managers of the part of the budget were instructed to prepare a draft of their part of the budget with inflation of 2,8%. The budget law itself includes inflation of 3,3%. We realize it, raise it to a level. This is the entry in Article. The 17th President of the National Bank of Poland said at the end of November. As you can see, inflation was even higher at the end of December. He served 7.6%. and the Central Statistical Office already reported in December that inflation is above 8%, close to 9%. As a result, by 0,2%. We are raising inflation rates related to pensions and pensions. We also propose the allocation of special funds, the creation of a provision for the financing of psychiatric treatment of children and young people with a grant of PLN 100 million. Traditionally, we recommend adopting an amendment to increase resources for the European Solidarity Centre. This is a symbolic gesture, not in the financial sense, because 4 million is a big thing, but showing how important it is to us, for Poland is the European Solidarity Centre, which stores this great tradition, great ideas of solidarity, which have accompanied us at least since 1980. And the last one... We are creating an amendment related to combating discrimination and violence, including domestic violence, with the amount of 50 million. We propose that an amendment be adopted to increase aid for farmers for the purchase of fertilisers. This is an amendment very important, it is possible that the amount is a little small here. We see how fertilizer prices have been rising in recent months and how they are growing now. It's just a shock to everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, in accordance with the Senate's Rules of Procedure, I am obliged to provide information which amendments have been made and why they have not been included by our committee. Some of these amendments have been consummated. I mean, the amendments made by the committees were consummated by the amendments prepared by the senators of the members of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance. First of all, we propose not to accept the amendment drawn up by the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, in which the committee proposes, inter alia. a reduction in the funds of the President's Office mainly. and this raised the most doubts from the senators of the committee The Bureau of International Policy. We felt, however, that this matter should not be regulated in such a way, through the state budget, that this is quite an important element. So we decided not to take this amendment into account. And if the senators thought that it should be redacted, changed or financed from other sources, then of course the issue is open. We also failed to take into account the opinion of the Committee on Immigration and Communications with Poles abroad. Its amendment was consummated by the amendment prepared by the senators at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, because this larger amendment clearly states that all the measures we propose should be under the authority of the Senate Office of 77 million 529 thousand. And the Senate Polonia commission offered a much smaller amount. We also did not accept the two amendments of the Health Committee because we reworded them and proposed a slightly different solution. The Health Commission proposed in its first amendment to allocate PLN 20 billion to health services. In the second amendment, she proposed to allocate funds for the treatment of infertility by means of in vitro infertility. The majority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances has proposed that in a single amendment concerning the National Health Fund funds, these two elements, i.e. funds for in vitro and all other health services, be taken into account. It is clear that the in vitro objective should be included in the budget of this PLN 100 million. If the senators believe, however, that this is a particularly health-care solution... This, of course, is an open question. Nor did we adopt, in the form prepared by the Human Rights Committee, an amendment on the amendments to the financing of the Supreme Court and the Supreme Court bodies, which provided additional resources for the Ombudsman and the Intelligence Agency. We changed it, too. We've decided. Also after consultation with the Ombudsman It is likely that the resources available to the Ombudsman are sufficient at this stage to work on the budget. The Ombudsman accepts them, too. So we've decided I'm talking about most of the committees. It is better to allocate these funds to areas where measures have been clearly reduced, i.e. the Intelligence Agency and the Internal Security Agency. These were amendments which were rejected by the committee, not accepted, were otherwise accepted or not taken into account. And I'm transmitting this information in accordance with the rules of procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, I would now like to say a few general sentences related to the work on the State budget for 2022. The biggest problem with the work on the Budgetary Act is that, unfortunately, we still have a "and this is at least the second time" situation that the state budget for the current year is not transparent, it is not clear. A large part of the expenditure related to the functioning of the State is outside the budget and is therefore outside parliamentary control. We have drawn attention to this and during the work on the around budget law, and during the special seminar of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, and we have clearly pointed out that it is unacceptable for a large proportion of expenditure It could even be said that, in practice, there is a parallel budget here that is outside the state budget. And if we add to the fact that a huge part of the expenditure in the state budget, including the one we're adopting, is the rigid expenditure. It turns out that Parliament's influence on expenditure formation is very, very limited. We also note that e.g. 15 billion PLN... because there are also some. emissions and we cannot accept that either, we believe that this is the wrong way to act, that a large part of the expenditure is to be financed through the issue of bonds. That is also consistently what our committee and I are paying attention to. This budget shall, for example, be entered in the budget. The fact that Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will be able to issue 15 billion bonds, 5.5 billion bonds... [[Timer signal]] ...can be issued to finance university-related tasks, the National Health Fund. Armed Forces Modernisation Fund, Reprivatisation Fund Up to PLN 20 billion. The COVID-19 Anti-Action Fund also has a huge budget. What's more, we were even trying to figure out how... I understand that this sign... Mr. Marshal has indicated that the time of the committee's rapporteur is slowly approaching... [[Yes, but we treat the rapporteurs with greater indulgence.]] Then I'd like your attention for a moment. I'm not gonna be like this anymore. This report will not be as long as Mr Goryszewski once did. At that time, he had the right to report for 4 hours, but I would like to take a few more minutes. And I'm just gonna say this a little bit, 'cause I hear... [[Voice from the room: Thank you, thank you.]] I'll tell you a little bit. So there is the issue of these bonds and the lack of control over these funds. Today, it is virtually impossible for Parliament to control the spending of funds from the COVID fund. What's more, it's not just us. as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, as senators or Members, we do not have the right to have access to information about spending from this budget, we have received a clear message that we do not have the right to access this information. But even the Supreme Chamber of Control does not have the right to do so. Mr Jarosz, the director responsible for the control of the budgetary institutions, said that the Supreme Audit Chamber, who tried to obtain information on the way the COVID Anti-Action Fund was spent, could not receive such information either, because, as the authorising officer says with these measures, it is banking secrecy, because these are the funds that are under the responsibility of the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. And the COVID Anti-Action Fund largely comes from the revenue of the state budget, comes from the issuance of state bonds, and it is also public funds, so it is incomprehensible at all that some part, a large part of public expenditure is at all out of control over the state budget. And another thing. We pointed this out during the work of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. By 30 November 2022, expenditure under the so-called "Supplies" will be available. non-extinguishable expenditure. And these unexpired expenses are practically out of the control of Parliament as well. Because, as you may know, the Minister of Finance is obliged to report on the implementation of the budget for the previous year, probably by the end of May or the end of June of the following year, but since these expenditures will be implemented by the end of 2022, it is not practically possible to control what level they are and how they are spent. And now our experts also point out that investment expenditure issues. In the state budget again, once again, because this is the case from year to year, property expenditure is falling, i.e. those which should be of a pro-development nature. Again, of course, part of the expenditure is being spent outside the budget, so that it is not entirely clear what resources are being spent on it and what objectives it is spent on. So I just want to say yes, and maybe that's enough. I do not want to prolong this discussion any longer, so that the next questions and answers can be supplemented. I would like to say with all my power that the budget of the state that we are setting is only part of the financial economy of the state. That's also what all three of our experts are talking about, and that's what we're actually talking about in public. Because the state budget, the law we adopt, concerns only a fragment of public expenditure, and the essence of this budget law is all the financial resources at the disposal of the State, which is that it should be under the control of Parliament. But what does it mean to be under parliamentary control? It means that the public, that is, every citizen, is to have access to how much money it seems to be for what purpose. These funds come from our taxes. I'm sure you're okay. You pointed out that the proposals adopted by the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance are based on a rather significant increase in budget revenue. Well, we do. The majority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance considers this to be the case. The fact that the State budget was designed in such a way as to take account of non-real inflation indicators relating to the growth of gross domestic product was taken into account. As I said, from level 2.8% Because these were the assumptions, such indicators were received by the dispatchers of the individual budget parts to the real level of inflation in the next year, i.e., as we say today, this year, there is a huge gap. And it is estimated that the increase in inflation by 1 percentage point is an additional revenue of the state budget of PLN 5 billion. At the same time, we believe that the income of the National Bank of Poland has been underestimated. They've been saved again at a very low level. Last year, the payment to the state budget, the payment of the National Bank of Poland, was small too, but it increased repeatedly at the end of the year. Today we are convinced Also due to changes in exchange rates, because it depends on changes in exchange rates which can easily be estimated by the Minister of Finance That these amounts should be realised that real amounts should be entered in the State budget. And the other thing is, chaotically... no, that's the third thing. It's chaotic working on-- it's got something to do with these things, too. This is, of course, justified in connection with this inflation, but this is about the chaotic actions of saying that from 1 February to zero, the tax on food will be reduced, that it will be significantly reduced, to 8%, will be taxed on fuel, etc. It leads to a complete twitching. In fact, for a good cause, it should be... If the finance minister were to approach the budget law fairly, an amendment would have been accepted, a large amendment would have been tabled by the senators, it could have already been done by the Members. It would be a de facto new state budget. It's been done in different situations, and it's been done many times. Sometimes autocorrections were reported. That was before when it was formally possible. This was done through the self-correction of the government, which was in fact a new document, or it was done in the form of seym or senate amendments. Today by the government At least that's what happened so far. We still have some time. There is no willingness to cooperate in this matter. We, as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, are ready to work with the Minister of Finance and we would like this budget bill to be genuinely well prepared so that it actually reflects the size of the revenue of the State budget and determines what the real expenditure is. We also expect information on how funds are spent from these non-budget sources. As I say, we are ready to cooperate, we are ready to accept such amendments that will actually implement those indicators that will show what this budget actually is. Otherwise, in 2, 3 months, the minister will come and say: we are doing an amendment to the budget bill. The budget should in principle be adopted in such a way that it is realistic throughout the year. In the past, when there were more problems with inflation, it worked. Well, as it is said in June, in September, even in October, that there is no problem with inflation, there is the situation that we are dealing with today. Once again, I ask you to accept the bill of amendment that was tabled at the meeting. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. At the moment, I will ask the minority rapporteur of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator Grzegorz Bierecki, to present a proposal for a minority of the committee. I would like to point out at this point that we will treat the rapporteurs as such, indulgently, and set up 20 minutes, but if it takes another five minutes, like Mr Klein, we will also assign them. However, a preliminary analysis of the results of the use of time measuring machines shows that the greatest overruns are when questions are asked. That's why I've committed the marshals to a minute later, if this time is over a lot... Let me remind you that the Marshal has the right to disable the senator's microphone from the scene. So limit yourself, because, as the measurements showed, the questioning session, which was supposed to last, say, 30 minutes, lasted almost 90 minutes, because most of the people who asked was out of time. But this is just a point of order, which, of course, does not concern the speech of the rapporteur, Senator Bierecki. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u4	I thought you were talking about Senator Klein. I haven't started my speech yet. I am pleased to present to you a minority report which contains a proposal to adopt this law without amendments. It was reported for several reasons. I will try to pinpoint them in these 20 minutes and accurately show the errors in the way in which this law was dealt with during the work of the committee, i.e. errors in the assumptions adopted for the assessment of this law. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget is a financial plan that assumes minimum income and maximum expenditure. This principle in all the terms in which I had the pleasure of observing budget work was respected. We're talking about minimum expenditure here, which is that we're talking about... I'm sorry, we're talking about minimum income here, so we're talking about the principle of not inflating this income, because we need to plan budget revenue rationally, recklessly. We are also talking about the maximum expenditure that we are saving in the budget, assuming that all those responsible for these measures, following the principle of economy, will try to reduce these expenditures so that at the end of the budget period we have as little deficit as possible so that we have to borrow as little as possible and burden future generations of Poles with debt to realize the expenditure we are taking. This rule has been broken here, in several cases. I will start with the simplest case, i.e. excessive profit of the National Bank of Poland, which goes to the budget. The projections presented by the National Bank of Poland were correctly reflected in the budget, NBP plans such a profit. Parliament would be in a position to change this projection only if the NBP, in its report, reminded me of the report adopted by the Monetary Policy Council, would show a higher profit. Then we could put in that extra money. But that's a smaller problem. An Important Problem This is what happened during the committee's work. The forecast of tax revenues is overestimated. Hence the magical money that my esteemed previous speaker would like to spend on so many important social goals. They're just coming from over-estimated tax revenues. In fact, what the senators of most committees have done is a repetition of what we were dealing with in the Sejm, i.e. 20 billion for health care, 10 billion for energy transformation. 6.5 billion for wage increases for teachers and others in the budgetary sphere. These are the same amendments that the Sejm has already worked on. But it was decided to repeat the same maneuver in the Senate, assuming that the majority would accept such a way of planning public finances. My previous colleague spent a lot of time on the procedure for improving budgetary indicators in his speech. We must remember that the government cannot make self-corrections. The budget that goes to the Sejm is already binding on the government. The Sejm has introduced amendments which result from the changing situation, from the changing economic environment, also from the rise in inflation. Let me remind you that one of the important amendments introduced by the Sejm was the creation of a 6-billion-dollar reserve to counter the effects of inflation growth. These funds are already in the budget. It is also important to bear in mind what the Minister pointed out at the committee meeting that the budget was largely a budget which, in part, is not subject to inflationary indexation. There are only a few items of little importance in the budget, where such an obligation to index appears, among others. This applies to expenditure on higher education. This possible increased expenditure shall be fully covered by the reserve accepted by the Sejm. I wonder what else I should say about inflation... I should say one more thing that concerns the way the committee works and the way the Senate works. Let me give you a little scientific attention here, and I will recall Milton Friedman, a Nobel Prize Prize winner, who created this work on the impact of inflation expectations on real inflation. The influence of inflation expectations... Inflationary expectations are ahead of real inflation, according to this Nobel Prize winner, so the way these inflation expectations are influenced, the development of these inflation expectations results in real inflation. This is a self-fulfilling prophecy. And these work on the state budget, which takes place at the end of the year, at the beginning of the year in the Senate, are observed by entrepreneurs who create their own budgets, who also plan prices for their products and services. Thus, over-inflationary expectations may have an impact on real inflation and consequently wage expectations which may lead to the failure of certain companies. Those expectations, the kind of inflation-paying spiral that could get caught up in here... I wouldn't want the Senate to contribute to that. Oh, that's what I'd like to say. Therefore, the government accepted inflation rates, which were in line with the NBP's projection during the drafting of the law, and were also in line with the market consensus at the time... This inflation has greatly accelerated due to external factors such as the energy prices currently manipulating the powers. Thus, the inflation rates that are included in the budget do not require correction, they do not require correction. The only result of such a correction would be a dangerous over-revenue and uncoverable promise to our citizens. My previous speaker presented the amendments. I know that the Minister will also take the floor of the Government's position towards all these amendments was negative. Then I will not replace the Minister in my speech. But I would like to draw your senators' attention to who the senators of the majority of the committee are taking money from. They receive them from the Constitutional Court, although in the Sejm the expenditure for the Constitutional Tribunal was reduced by PLN 1 million, 642 thousand. They're being picked up by the National Radio and Television Council. And here the reduction resulting from the 2 amendments actually threatens the achievement of the tasks of this institution and its functioning, because it is a reduction of 30,15% i.e. a budget cut by more than 30%. They're also taking away $50 million from the IPN. They're taking money from the Supreme Court. Here we are dealing with an amendment that is even in deficit. And the Supreme Court loses 10 million zlotys. They are receiving compensation for the exemption from the subscription of Polish Television and Polish Radio, forgetting that the consequence would be the abolition of these waivers from the subscription that our citizens use. They also collect money from the Chancellery of the Prime Minister According to Amendment 13, current expenditure falls by 100 million, 42.9%. percentage, and according to the next amendment, Amendment 15, they fall by an additional 50 million, which is 21.5% the budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers. Finally, and here, I think, the cherry on the cake, during the pandemic, are also receiving money from the Agency for Strategic Reserves, 33% of the funds of the Agency for Strategic Reserves are to disappear from this budget, to go on other tasks than those carried out by the Agency for Strategic Reserves. And we all see how important this institution is during the pandemic period. I must also comment on the last comment you made to Senator Klein, i.e. the relationship between funds and the state budget, because the impression that an uninformed listener might have would have been that suddenly there was some money out of control and someone was spending it. I don't know how. Let me remind you that we are dealing with a fairly long history of the operation of the funds. I remember that the road fund was probably separated in 2011, for the 2011 term. Senator Klein probably remembers it better because he was chairing the committee at the time. I guess that's when it happened. Now there's just more money in these funds. Then the model was developed, and now there's more money in those funds that are next to the budget. Why are there more? Well, we're dealing with funds to counteract And they're countering it. The effects of the pandemic. Huge money, huge money went to save Polish companies. Huge money went to save jobs. The fact that Poland has such excellent unemployment rates after the pandemic is also due to the functioning of these measures. And why did it have to be in the funds, not in the budget? When we plan our expenses, we always have to ask ourselves: where is the money coming from? If it were not for the construction of these funds, the source of the funds we needed for the expenditure on the fight against the pandemic would probably have to be outside Poland, we would probably have to make commitments on foreign markets, make an impact on our finances to foreign entities. Thanks to this construction, thanks to the construction, under which bonds issued by the Polish Development Fund and Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego can be purchased by the National Bank of Poland, thanks to courageous decisions and innovative solutions adopted by the National Bank of Poland and the Ministry of Finance, this operation was successfully carried out, without risk to the budget and at a low cost. If we're gonna be guilty for that, then hell looks different. Right? So much for the funds. My esteemed previous speaker didn't say anything about the budget. Well, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2022 has been prepared with a significant increase in revenue and expenditure. This is a larger budget, which indicates that after 7 years of rule of law and justice, revenue and budget expenditure will be almost PLN 200 billion higher, which is close to 70%. higher than in 2015, the last year of the government of the PO PSL. The revenue plan was based on conservative and realistic assumptions. The most important revenue planned in the budget, i.e. VAT revenue, is the amount of PLN 231,4 billion, from PIT, 67 billion. This means that a similar amount will go to the budget of local government units, because they have about 50% participation in this tax. Next: PLN 51 billion of CIT tax So an additional 20 billion to self-government units. and 78 billion excise revenue. Other revenues, also increased, are non-tax revenues. Importantly, all of these projections have already taken into account the effects of the PIT tax reduction, which applies from 1 January, including the introduction of PLN 30 000 free amount and raising from PLN 85 000 to PLN 120 000 the value of the second tax threshold in which there is a higher tax rate, as well as the exemption from PIT of families with four and more children. These influences show that after 7 years of rule of law and justice, the scale of the tax system's sealing brings the expected results. Since time is running out, I will allow myself to expect questions and repeat the request of the minority committee to adopt this law without any amendments for reasons which I have explained extensively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u5	Thank you very much. At present, senators can report from a place lasting more than a minute... excuse me, no more than a minute of questioning to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Please, a question for Senator Bierecki, Senator Alexander Sweed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u6	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr Senator, the rapporteur of the majority, speaking of the budget, has basically not said much about the budget. You're talking about an increase in income, and I'd like it to sound like it. What was the increase in the revenue of the State budget in 2022, in budgetary assumptions, in relation to revenue in 2015? And since out of these 16 amendments the biggest amendment is the amendment concerning health care, which is promised, as you have already explained, 20 billion zlotys without coverage, I would like to ask If you have that knowledge, of course. "What the financing of health services looked like in 2015 and if spending on health care has increased. Say it, of course, if you have that knowledge, and if you don't, I'll ask the minister later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u7	Thank you very much. I was talking about an increase in revenue and budget expenditure of nearly PLN 200 billion compared to what was in 2015. As far as these data on health finance are concerned, the increases are similar. Let me remind you that, in the previous term, we have adopted appropriate laws that guarantee a stairway increase in expenditure on health care and income from the National Health Fund. I think the Minister must have in his computer the details that the senator was asking about, so if you don't mind, I would redirect this issue of accurate data to the Minister. I'm out of a computer right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u8	Thank you. Mr. Senator... Stay, I'll ask for all the questions that are for you. Senator Krzysztof Frost. Please. Senator Krzysztof Frost... There isn't? Now, Senator Wadi Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u9	Mr. Senator, a few quick questions. Do you remember the increase in the budget in relation to 2015 and 2007? Because you are proud to say that the budget has increased compared to the 2015 budget. And did the year 2015 increase in relation? 2007? Do you remember that? That's my question. Second question. Is the increase in PIT revenue only due to government, or maybe only government, or maybe government, and all Poles, and not necessarily the government itself? Increases in PIT revenues from where? From economic development, which, by the way, concerns the whole world. In the Czech Republic, in Romania the economy is developing better than in Poland. Was the sealing of the tax system that you were so proud of prepared by your predecessors, and the government of PIS simply implemented these changes? And finally. Is spending on health care a source of paid contributions, or is it a matter of the good will of the government? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u10	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u11	I could, of course, say that this does not include the minority report, that the committee did not deal with the increase in budget revenue in relation to 2007 and 2015. I don't have that data... [[Mr. Senator, I have referred to your statement.]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, please let me answer you now.]] I do not have this data to present it to you, but there is a minister present who will be happy to give it to you, or you will find it on the Internet. Whose credit is the increase in PIT? Of course, all the actors you've pointed out. We are talking about a budget document which shows these increases in PIT revenue despite the reductions that the Government of Law and Justice has introduced. Let me remind you that a number of these reductions were introduced with completely unfounded protests from some very politically motivated local authorities. I think they figured it out and saw they had it better. When it comes to VAT sealing and who prepared it... You know, I'm the third term in Parliament, and I know everyone's always worked on it, but only the PiS government has succeeded. Yeah, the PiS government did it. We have managed to seal VAT revenues and they are now much higher. I remember Minister Rostowski coming here and asking permission to increase the deficit. I've always told him, "Shut the holes, you won't have to pour so much." Well, that's what I said. The holes have been clogged... Of course, there are still some, because it is an endless struggle, but that is why we are in Parliament to respond to changing circumstances and to modify the law accordingly. The expenditure on the National Health Fund is growing with revenue. You can spend the money that the government spends on health care, in line with its plan to increase health spending, on other things, but this government has declared... Well, you can construct a different collection of taxes and contributions. But this government has declared concrete growth and they are being implemented. The National Health Fund budget is growing as planned to grow. So here we are dealing with the fulfilment of commitments.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u12	Thank you. Senator Krzysztof Mroz's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u13	Mrs. Marshal! I have two questions addressed both to Senator Grzegorz Bierecki and to Senator Kazimierz Kleina. The first question is this. Mr. Senator, as a result of the Senate's amendments, revenue has been greatly reduced, as you said, by the government agency, the Strategic Reserve Agency. This is the agency that supplies hospitals that buy vaccines, which in fact, during this difficult time of COVID in 2020 and 2021 helped medical entities instantly. We're in the middle of another increase in the number of cases within the fourth wave, maybe there'll be a fifth wave. How does the President see such a significant reduction in appropriations? Well, there won't just be money to equip hospitals, local, county and voivodeship hospitals. And second question. Mr. President Kleina and the majority... [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u14	That's both for now and then, possibly the other. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u15	How do I assess the reduction in resources at the disposal of the Strategic Reserve Agency by 33%? I'm just judging it as an ordinary scandal. This is an outrage. It's just that. Those who have signed this amendment should sprinkle their heads with ash and withdraw this amendment. This is an outrage.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u16	Thank you. Are you still... There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u17	The second question, also to the two Presidents. Now that Mr Bierecki is speaking, I will ask him first. There's been a vote on this curian amendment about some mysterious phone line. Nobody knows... I was asking if this was a government trust line, some kind of crisis line. Well, you don't know what it is and who would have this line at all, so to speak, implement. And it's about 5 million zlotys. So, first of all, you don't know what the line is, second of all, spending 5 million zlotys from the state budget... Well, such expenses are not included in the budget. It could be some kind of dispatcher... But at the level of the budget, no amendment is made concerning PLN 5 million for an undefined entity and for a more specific objective. Can you elaborate on that? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u18	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u19	In my report, I was very gentle and I left out this actually humorous moment at the committee meeting when the applicants were unable to answer the question of what kind of call of trust, whether one or several, who should call, what case and who to whom, in short, but 5 million PLN is entered. Today, Senator Kleina said that it was the minister who would decide, as the authorising officer, what would be the call of trust, who would be calling and who would be calling. So we still don't really know... Each of us has an idea of what a phone call can be. I checked, there is no legal definition of the phone trust, there is no such definition, no one knows what a phone trust is in the light of the regulations in force in Poland. But here are 5 million zlotys for this purpose. Well, you could laugh at it if it wasn't for us talking about the state budget. Well, we're talking about the state budget, and here, these flowers appear at the committee meeting. And this idea is still being supported. Maybe if we find out more about it... But the budget record doesn't explain anything, and the explanation presented by the rapporteur's colleague is that it will be the minister who decides what it will be, well, in principle it deepens this lack of understanding and knowledge about the purpose of this amendment. But such amendments have been tabled and adopted by the majority. Well, then, Mr. Senator, we can either laugh or we can cry.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u20	Thank you. There are no more questions for the senator. [[Thank you very much.]] Senator Kleina, you're Senator Jerzy Sticky. There you go. [[Mrs. Marshal, because there were those questions Mr. Frost asked, why don't I answer those questions? 'Cause it was like this...]] Okay, well, then, here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Senator, first of all, the senator will answer Senator Mr. Mroz's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u21	Senator Frost asked about the issues of the phone. Senator Bierecki said it was funny and that you could laugh at it. So I'm gonna say that the trust phone isn't a funny thing... [[Correction...]] ...this is a very serious matter and... [[Mrs. Marshal...]] And then... Mr. Senator, I didn't judge your speech, humorous or not humorous, so I have a right to speak as well. It's not humorous... [[But you...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, if you would consider that you would be entitled to ad vocem. Now, if you'll excuse me, sir, let the senator answer.]] The amendment is not humorous, it is very serious, very important. The result is... Because this is the reserve, the special reserve we're proposing. 5 million zlotys is not enough, these are big resources. Every money in the budget is a lot of money. There are, of course, bigger and smaller targets. This is not a big goal from the point of view of the entire budget, but very important because, as we know, the phone of trust virtually ceased to function in Poland, and he plays a very important role and contributes... Thanks to the operation of this phone of trust has succeeded in the past, I hope, still succeeds, although it is very poorly functioning at the moment, and will manage to solve various crisis situations, even related to saving lives. So I wouldn't be humorous about this case. I wouldn't even approach the amendment humorously. And that's an amendment that isn't... This will not be decided by the Senators of the Civic Platform, nor by Members, nor by any opposition, but only by the Minister as a purpose. Well, it's in the part appropriate to the Minister of National Education, where that Minister should at his discretion so distribute these funds, in such a formula, in such a way as to actually activate the phone of trust and restore its functioning. And that's all it is. This is a very important matter for us. It's possible it's not important to others. We think this is a very important matter. If this could be done, we would be even more pleased to start the phone without this amendment, but we have not been able to do it so far. And that's why this amendment came along. That's one thing. The Material Reserve Agency you were talking about here, and it was so dramatic that it was an assassination, and so on. It's not an assassination, it's just that all these tasks... We also say that they generally, in principle... Because it is mostly not the strategic reserves, as far as the objectives you have been talking about are concerned, that is the normal functioning of the state in times of crisis, at this point in time of pandemic, and therefore the tasks should be carried out mainly through the measures foreseen for health, i.e. the measures that should be in the National Health Fund. And that's why, among other things. We're making this big amendment so we can just... It's a weakness. of this budget The fact that funds are distributed in different types of funds. These funds, unfortunately, are coming. In our day, they were too. I've never praised them in principle. But the funds should be concentrated in those budget locations that are dedicated to a given objective. So if there's money for medical shopping, it should be in medical supplies. And that's what it's all about. That's how you're supposed to operate. Not that if there's a crisis, we're creating another fund. Because we can't manage the ones that exist. And that's what this whole operation is all about. For example, the road fund was also mentioned here. I'm not saying the road fund is perfect. It was created in 2001 or 2002. I can't remember what year the road fund was built. In general, these are my personal views, and I am opposed to funds as separate parts of the budget or to spending funds beyond the budget for those reasons which I have already presented. But the road fund is not such a fund that we or Parliament have no access to information about how these funds are spent. There's no situation like we have right now with these covid funds. Because as far as the road fund is concerned, today also the Council of Ministers adopts a road investment programme, and it is managed by the Minister responsible for infrastructure, who gives precise information on how much has been spent on this road, how much on this road, etc., etc., etc. So this information is. This fund is also not a true part of the budget, because it is managed by the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, but information about the state of the funds, about the funds and objectives spent is public information. And that's all we want, isn't it? These funds are right now, if my memory is correct, I think they're 36. They should definitely be... Maybe more, but I do... [[36.]] 36 funds. In the days of the PiS they were created... Well, I'm not gonna say how much, 'cause I might be a little confused. So I don't want to talk. But they were created, unfortunately, a lot. Every fund, including those that were created earlier, in general as to... Not as a rule. Rather, everyone is the weakness of the state as a whole, because it is simply the pulling out of different resources by individual directors. That's it. Because they're thinking, "I'll manage it better if it's just me." So much for this fund. And one more very important rule. This was also raised in the question That revenue in the budget is fixed at a minimum and expenditure at a maximum level. This is a basic budgetary principle. And we stick to it, we want it to be. But it can't be that the budget is off-balanced from the reality of size. And that's what this argument is about, isn't it? Because then, according to this principle, which is also important to me, it would be possible to put income in the amount of 1 PLN anywhere, which is also a minimum income. And it'll be as much as we like. So even if we set the income at a minimum level, it should be real, I mean, it should be related to the actual size. And I would like to say, so immodestly maybe, that all these amendments that we had in the previous year, to the budget 2021, were proposed to you, regarding payments from the profit of the National Bank of Poland... He was even bigger than we suggested. And our calculations were not calculations of experts of the National Bank of Poland As the president says: the best in the world. But how can you trust the experts of the National Bank of Poland if they said in September and October that there is no inflation problem and in November and December That there's a serious problem? Same experts. They probably presented some analysis to the Monetary Policy Council, etc. So? And poverty. How can you trust that these are minimum indicators, etc. So that's what this is all about, that we're talking about: minimum income, but real. Not sucked out of a finger. And that's the problem. [[Mrs. Marshal, still in correction mode...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u22	Senator Bierecki. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u23	I was offended by Senator Kleina's use of such disgusting erystique, who said at the beginning of his statement that my joy arouses the phone of trust. [[Voice from the room: Right.]] Of course, Senator... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Okay...]] [[Voice from the room: Yes, it was.]] I'm sure he misunderstood. ♪ My joy ♪ ♪ It made me happy ♪ - and not only my way to proceed and present this amendment at this committee meeting. And if the Minister is to have the resources himself... Well, I checked and I just found at least a dozen different trust phones about different topics, and I also found the Catholic Trust Phone. Then I suggest to the minister. The second correction I have to make... Senator Klein has just misled the Senate, claiming that the funds taken by the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency will be allocated to medical activities.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u24	No. I didn't say that the funds taken from the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency were meant for this purpose, but I said that the purpose mentioned by Senator Frost was to be financed under this large health care amendment. That's what I said. So it's not like that...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u25	It's not like that either. It's not like that either. But to make it clear what these measures are for... [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Mr. Senator, but I suggest... You will have the opportunity to refer to this later. Because there's still a question for you, so you'll have an opportunity... if it's a longer line...]] No. Mrs. Marshal, in correction mode, only brief information. These funds taken from the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency are intended for energy transformation, the exchange of heat sources to low-carbon sources. [[Yes.]] Yes. And that's what this money's meant to be for. [[That's right.]] In this large amendment, the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency is not located, so who else would take over the tasks of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency... I think there is a great confusion here, Senator, and this amendment is not needed, especially during the pandemic period. [[Voice from the room: But you can not comment...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u26	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, let me refer to your first correction. I, too, had the impression of Senator Klein, as I understood what you said. Perhaps you have expressed yourself in an unfortunate way that it has been perceived as such. Thank you very much... [[I think I got it right...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] There you go. Mr. Senator George Wright. I'd like to ask you a question. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Question. Mr. Senator Tight. All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u27	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I have a question for Senator Kazimierz Kleina. What inflation rate was adopted in the budget, and what committee proposes? What is the difference, and what does it mean for the budget? And one comment to Mr. Bierecki and Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Mr. Frost. What made you laugh so much... [[Voices from the room: No comments.]] [[There's no comment...]] ...is 40,000 interventions in cases where young people are on the verge of committing suicide. I congratulate you on your social sensitivity and knowledge on this subject. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u28	Thank you very much, Marshal. I think it's a good thing that this issue about the phone of trust has been clarified at the moment and that, as a rule, Senator Bierecki is not an opponent of the phone of trust and that rather... I'm happy for you because this is more important to us than Mr. Bierecki's kind of humorous comments or my explanation that doesn't satisfy him. For us, the most important thing is that we agree on the importance and seriousness of this issue and that it is important and that we need to do it. And the fact that we are critical of the functioning of this up to now is a question that will be resolved in the future. I think this is more important. It is simply best not to use such humorous terms, mockery or something, because it always raises doubts and not always everyone can understand it clearly. I accept, of course... As Senator Bierecki knows... After all, even at the committee meeting, we accepted your proposal, a minority request, for adoption of the budget without amendments, although formally it was already impossible at that time, because it should have been voted out... It wasn't just filed. But we kindly approached the matter without making any big fuss about it. There were doubts. We accepted, even though it was against the rules... Yeah, but all the committee members could accept it, so I just... I just want to say that this practice hasn't been done before. There were, of course, requests to adopt a budget law, and that's just the way I'm saying it. No amendments, but such a proposal must always be formally tabled and always voted first. And he didn't show up until after the amendments were voted out, so... But we took it... Yeah, we're leaving it. The issue of inflation. Here, indeed, our serious doubt arises, as I mentioned in the report. It seems to me that in order for citizens to have confidence in the budget as this most important law governing public finances, there must be real indicators in this law, real indicators, real ones that concern reality. If inflation is envisaged... as I said, the rate of inflation of 2,8% was initially set for the contributors. , and it at the end of the previous year, before the budget law enters into force, is almost 9%, and already there is a high increase in inflation in the next year, so according to most committees it should be included in this budget, even if this is not to cause revenue growth as laid down in the budget law, etc. It's just that the indicators that are in the bill should be real, those that describe the reality, the actual problems that occur in reality, because otherwise everyone can undermine everything that we say and do. Besides, I was talking about the issue of such a de facto double budget. Since a large part of the expenditure is outside the budget law, it is for a good cause not only of parliament, not only of the Senate or of the Sejm, but even citizens do not have such reliable information about public finances. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u29	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost. [[Yes, Mrs. Marshal, but I must address not in the form of a question to what the senator said...]] No, it's time to ask a question, Senator. [[But everyone has the right to correct.]] You're the one who's gonna be... Senator Bierecki is the Senator Rapporteur, so he has the right to correct... [[But as my name goes...]] You're the senator asking the question... [[... I have a right to be...]] Mr. Senator, don't interrupt me like I said. You are the senator who is asking the question, and you will be able to express yourself in the debate and possibly correct the things that you believe were inconsistent. But now I'm asking you to ask me a question. [[But I don't want to correct...]] I'd like to ask you a question. [[But, Mrs. Marshal, I don't want to straighten things out that are inconsistent...]] Now is the time... [[...only if someone...]] ...to ask a question. [[You can correct it at any time if someone's name is mentioned. And my name came out of Senator Vistula's mouth, and all I want to do is correct it...]] But that was the question...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u30	But my name came up, so to speak, Mrs. Marshal. Well, you can listen to this because everything's being recorded. Therefore, Mr. Senator, I wasn't making fun of the phone call. I was amazed at the committee meeting. ♪ which are also being recorded ♪ The authors of the amendment, when submitting this amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Finance, were not able to say what kind of call of trust they were looking for. Is it supposed to be one line, many lines... They couldn't say anything. They said: we will think about it and maybe we will solve this problem, and we will complete the proposal at the committee meeting. And it was funny, and it was tragic. That's about my name that came up in this context from Senator Wcisla. And now I have a question for Senator Kleina. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Ask them.]] That answer you said... [[Timer signal]] ... testifying either that you were wrong or that the senator didn't know exactly. 'Cause if you're saying that the strategic reserve agency isn't gonna carry out these functions of providing hospital supplies, 'cause it's gonna go with the NFZ, I don't know, Senator, if you know what the NFZ is doing. And that's my question. Because the NFZ is buying benefits, not buying hospital equipment. So it's a question of whether you have any idea what the material reserves agency is doing when it comes to hospitalization or what the NFZ is doing. Because from this answer, well, it turns out that you've got these two realities wrong. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u31	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u32	Mrs. Marshal, High Izbo, I answered this question correctly, rightly, to my best knowledge, the question about the material reserves agency. By the way, I would like to say that in the case of strategic reserve agencies there has been a significant increase in its budget in relation to the budget of the previous year. And with regard to the phone of trust, I would avoid the phrase "funny" or "funny" in that sense. I just want to say that there was a question at the committee meeting. I told you I'd explain. In these technical details, we don't need to know. Whether there's gonna be one or a couple or a dozen calls, it's not our call. We are talking about the purpose for which these funds should be spent. And that's confirmed. I'm talking about what we did. This ridicule wasn't because we were saying something funny, it was because you had a funny way of commenting at the committee meeting, a serious matter. That's all. We couldn't... I couldn't tell you how many phones there were supposed to be, but I understand... Even today, I don't think we can say it because it's an internal issue, an organizational ministry, how this problem will solve. It's a thing. I think it's everything.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u33	Thank you very much. You'll be saved. You'll still be able to ask a question. Senator Halin Poor. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u34	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! (PL) Mr President, I would like to ask you a few questions. I have three short questions. First. Was there a discussion at the committee meeting about the funds that are outside the budget, in the various funds that you mentioned at the end of your previous speech? Second question. Was there an increase in funding at the committee meeting, an increase in spending on higher education and science in the context of the lack of funding for the increase in salaries of higher education workers? These were the demands of the Council of Higher Education and Science of the Polish Teachers' Association. And the third question. I would just like to be sure about Amendment 3, on the return of subsidies, so to speak, or to provide another source of funding for the learning of minority languages. I would just like to confirm that the funds for learning Polish language have been and have not been returned. These are from other sources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u35	Thank you very much. There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u36	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What is the amount, the amount of extra-budget appropriations? I can't answer that question. This matter was not clarified at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets because we do not have access to information about how large some of the funds are outside the budget. Second point, science and higher education. This part of the budget was examined by the Education and Science Committee. There was no doubt about this committee, and therefore, as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, we did not deal with this issue. The third issue, that is, the funds allocated... back to the education subsidy, the general subsidy that local governments receive. She was reduced in the Seym by PLN 38 million 900 thousand. As proposed by the Science, Education and Sport Committee... We have adopted it in the form it was prepared by the committee. This amendment The committee informed us about this and was supported as a proposal to the Scientific and Education Committee by many senators and aroused emotions. This problem has aroused emotions in at least a few committees. We have accepted this amendment without a doubt. I would like to say once again that in the Seym there was a reserve in the amount, so to speak, taken from the learning of minority languages and the Kashubian language, for learning Polish in Germany. We propose to leave this reserve if the government believes it is a priority, that it must be done and that there is no other way to finance learning Polish in Germany. However, we considered it unacceptable that this objective should be pursued by means which were intended to teach the language of the native national minorities, persons who are citizens of the Republic of Poland. It is impossible to bring about a situation where some of the citizens of the Republic of Poland will be hostages to international policy, and this was the context of the amendment which was adopted in the Sejm. He was clearly visible. We just think the situation needs to be brought to normal. That's why it's an amendment. I hope that it will be widely accepted, because it would not be good if the Senate confirmed such practice that some citizens of the Republic could be held hostage by international policy. Because today this concerns, in line with the intention of Minister Czarnek and Mr Kowalski, who expressed it directly at the Sejm meeting and later in the comments, and earlier also in comments, only German minorities... This is impossible because this regulation, which allocates funds to national and ethnic minorities, does not divide these people into individuals of that or other nationality. I think it's just some big mistake to try to share that if you're Chinese, you're gonna get 5 zł, like an Englishman, you're gonna get a zloty... I will list those minorities that are not in Poland. Well, it would just have been some complete paranoia in Poland. [[It's not a mistake, it's stupid.]] So I hope it can be defended. and that there will be a reflection on this matter. Because these are matters for these minorities big, important, but from a budget point of view, this is not the amount that turns the budget upside down, and restoring this amount is simply generally expected. That's the third answer, and I guess that's it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u37	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Alexander Swede a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u38	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, your report focuses more on the amendments, less on the budget, less on the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances, on which you considered the Budget Act. Meanwhile, the Senate committees presented their opinions to the Budget Act. I would like to ask: what committees gave a positive opinion on the Budget Law for 2022?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u39	I say, all the committees, except those I mentioned, have given a positive opinion... So no corrections. Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Committee on National Defence, Committee on Infrastructure, Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, Committee on the Environment and Extraordinary Commission on Climate Affairs These are the committees that have not proposed amendments. There were discussions because we were told that there were doubts, etc., but amendments were not reported and recommended to accept parts without amendments. [[And they gave a positive opinion.]] Yes, yes, without amendments, that is, there was a positive opinion of these committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u40	Thank you very much. There you go, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski. I think he's gone... [[The voice from the room: He didn't expect that so soon...]] Yeah, he didn't expect so soon... Therefore, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u41	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Dear Senator, I would like to ask a question in the context of crazy inflation, expensive, often dramatic situations of entrepreneurs, families, connected with high gas prices, because this is our everyday life now in Poland. Was it mentioned in the Committee on Budgets, where and why is there such a large increase in budget expenditure for 2022 in the part of the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers? There's 141.89% here. That is 594 million 305 thousand was planned in 2021, and now there is an increase to 830 million 968 thousand. [[Voice from the room: Well, extraordinary.]] That's what I'm wondering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u42	Thank you very much. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u43	Mrs. Marshal! Senator! Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, we have also drawn attention to this significant increase, a very high increase in the budget in the Prime Minister's firm, and that's where the amendments are coming from, and, as I hear them, they're about to make this growth real, so to speak, so to speak, in order to bring it to some rational size. This increase in funds in the Prime Minister's firm over the last few years is really very high from year to year, and that raises doubts, because in principle savings should start with those who are, so to speak, closest to having budget resources, i.e. from the Prime Minister and his firm, they should show how it should be done, and here there has been a radical increase in resources. We see it and we see it. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Can I ask you another question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u44	Yes, you're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u45	And at this point... What's the percentage of growth in the last seven years?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u46	I'm not gonna answer that question, it requires... [[Almost 700.]] What's the percentage? [[Almost 700.]] 700%. This is possible because this growth lasted for years. We paid attention every year to the fact that the Prime Minister's firm has a top-of-the-line growth, which is not understandable at all. [[As much as gas for entrepreneurs...]] [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much...]] 700%. This is Senator Leszek Czarnobaj's hint. It's been since the famous year 2015. [[Yes.]] So since 2015, the Prime Minister's budget has increased by 700%. I give this number on the responsibility of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj, because I do not have precise indicators. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Thank you. No further questions.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u47	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u48	Mrs. Marshal, I'm afraid I have one case to attend to... I have to get back to that unfortunate phone call. I'm saying miserable, because the senator... [[Voice from the room: No, no!]] But I'm sorry, I listened to things that weren't true about me! Mr. Senator, you know very well... Any senator may hear the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance. When I asked that question, I did not laugh, anyone could check it out, and I asked because this amendment had no justification. If there is an amendment and there is no justification, we must ask. The tragic situation is that the authors... Unfortunately, one of the co-authors of this amendment was Senator Klein and he could not answer the reasons either. In this context It's weird. I'm asking you a question. I have two questions for Senator Kleina. One question goes on to be what Senator Swede said. [[Timer signal]] At the meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, the budget is adopted without amendments, and suddenly at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets there is an amendment: PLN 10 billion for transformation. Are you not surprised that the people in the Senate, the senators who are involved in the climate action, do not see the need to... They think the budget in this section... The substantive Commission does not see the need for an amendment, and suddenly a group of senators, in accordance, of course, with the rules, is proposing such an important amendment concerning PLN 10 billion, as you say, blindly taking money from different institutions to finance this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u49	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start with the last, second question. I am not surprised because the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances has the right to make such amendments as it considers to be reasonable and best. This issue was not surprising either by the senators at the committee meeting, and I am presenting a report to the committee on the work on these amendments. So there was no surprise either, at least as rapporteur for the majority I did not notice any surprise about this case. There was simply a vote that ended with the result that the majority of the committee supported this amendment. I think we've cleared up the issue of the trust phone. This is neither a joke nor a humorous matter for any of us. We just want this thing to be done, that's all. So be it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u50	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! As members of the budget committee, I think we all follow the principle: maximum expenditure, minimum income. But it's worth talking about, because history has to be learned. Could you remind us so briefly what our discussions in the committee were about the 2021 budget for revenue and expenditure, and what happened with regard to the budget adjustment at the end of 2021?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We also drew attention, of course it was not the most important part of our discussion, but during the committee meeting we pointed out that, in fact, most of the amendments we tabled to the budget for 2021 were consummated in the revision of the budget law adopted by the Sejm and the Senate during last year. We'd like to... That is why these amendments are in place, and that is why we pointed out that most of these entries were obvious already at the beginning of 2021. We are now in the process of working on the 2022 budget, and we are much smarter on a variety of information that the dispatchers did not have at the beginning of 2021 when they started working on the 2022 budget. We are convinced that several elements should be included in this budget in a way that corresponds to reality. The first issue is to make payments from the profit of the National Bank of Poland. The calculation of this profit is relatively simple, because the profit of the National Bank of Poland results de facto from exchange rate differences at the end of the year, at the end of the year. So it is simply easy to calculate, in the National Bank of Poland it could be calculated with a very high probability. This would certainly be several times higher than the amount entered in the budget for 2022. Well, it's a deposit for 2021, so there, in the National Bank of Poland, they just know what the actual amount will be. The issue of VAT is also, as we have clearly pointed out, very strongly linked to inflation, but this, of course, interferes with the reduction announced by the Prime Minister at the moment. On 1 February, VAT on food is to be abolished and VAT on fuel is to be reduced to 8%. So this is the Prime Minister's announcement, and I understand that, but this announcement... I think all of this should just come from some kind of strategic thinking. Unfortunately, I feel that this budget is being worked on under chaos conditions. Right? Something's wrong, so we start to mix it up, change the indicators. The Budget Act for 2022 established, already in the Sejm, a special reserve for cover operations. I understand that it is well thought out, too, that we know more or less how much money we need, that there are some analysts in government and various government institutions who can calculate these amounts. And now there are new elements that completely reverse these calculations. So that the situation is really difficult right now, I'm honest with you. I'm sure this budget will be passed somehow, maybe even signed by the president... And the disease knows if the president will sign it, since he's in the state in which we see him, in which all analysts see him. [[Voice from the room: How about not sign?]] Well, anything's possible... Oh, no, the president needs to sign. Excuse me, the president needs to sign. But we don't know what the Sejm will do with our amendments. Well, for example. may not pass them on in time, different situations may happen. The president must sign, of course. If all the experts we've invited, but also the other analysts, show that this budget is just written according to... well, it's just unreal the sizes that are here. This is the case in many areas, not only in those we have discussed here, but also in many other areas. We're just discussing a document that... I'm sure the minister will tell us if they're trying to rewrite it in a month, two months, three months or six months. That's the basic question, because in the way that budget came to us... We're trying to correct it a little bit, but we can't do miracles about it. Well, we can fix it a little bit where we see the mistakes that come out of the open. We've asked the Minister and everyone... We are open to cooperation, we are ready to make all these amendments that will update this budget. Because the government at this stage can't make an autocorrection. At an earlier stage, even before the first reading, he could introduce such an autocorrection. Well, she should be introduced, but that's another matter. This has not been done, but at this stage we declare that we are ready to cooperate, to introduce these amendments that would update this, which would show real, real sizes and goals that should be achieved. And that's the question. But if there is a proposal to adopt this law without amendments and the government supports such a proposal At least a few days ago it was like this. It means that this government is completely disconnected from reality, that it simply does not see what is happening on the market, what is happening with inflation, with different sizes, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u53	Thank you. Senator Pupa's question, please. Are you a senator? You're a senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u54	Mr Senator, rapporteur! Mr President of the Commission, I have a question for you. The amount of PLN 20 billion for medical care, health. On the basis of what documents and analyses was this calculated? And why it's not, for example. 19 billion or 24 billion, just the exact sum of 20 billion? And what is this money for when it comes to health care expenses? It's a question that I'm sure is of interest and concern to everyone. The second question is related to the expenditure on the Internal Security Agency, as I understand, on military counterintelligence. Mr President, the rapporteur was kind enough to say that the expenditure here was cut by 20% That's what I understand. [[About 80%, but I'm about to check it out.]] And you noticed that there were protests from the service. Who was protesting? Were these people related to the services? Did they write letters to the committee, monitor it? How's it look? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u55	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator! The first issue, the issue of health care. This appropriation is intended to cover the National Health Fund and ultimately the National Health Fund will take its own decisions on the basis of the priorities it considers to be the most important. This amount of 20 billion is so low in relation to the real needs that have been reported to us, to the senators, but they have also come to us clearly as signals... Because it was an amendment from the Health Committee and Senator Alicja Chybicka, who was the rapporteur of the Health Committee, said it was a minimum And they analyzed it, they received information on it, they collected information about health care. Moreover, these funds are not intended to be used for the extension of hospitals, but for the purpose of, as if related to current programmes. 'Cause they've been paying attention to all kinds of problems. There is, for example. The fund that came out of the initiative... It's about the 2 billion zlotys. We probably applied for PLN 2 billion for oncology treatment in the previous term, if I remember correctly. It's true, isn't it? The president's initiative... But these 2 billion PLN, as you remember, were not accepted, our amendment was later rejected in the Sejm. The Sejm then submitted a legislative initiative and gave 4 billion PLN, which means it doubled our proposal, but it was actually spent on it... [[170 million.]] PLN 170 million. [[Voice from the O.R.: But 4...]] But that was... But you remember how big the action was made out of it, don't you? There was a propaganda campaign in the media, on TV, everywhere there'd be 4 billion for it! And it spent PLN 170 million from this fund. We don't know how these resources are going to be distributed here. We believe that a rational decision will be taken by the National Health Fund and its calculation is within the remit of the Health Committee. [[I'd just ask, Mrs. Marshal. Will the marshal allow it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u56	There you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u57	Mr President, Mr Senator, you pointed out one thing: the National Health Fund is to spend money on what it considers appropriate. That's what you said. And don't you think that money could be wasted because if there's no proper health program, that money could be wasted? And that again, you can say, the couple will whistle, and the citizens will not feel any improvement in medical care? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u58	Senator, I think I have more confidence in the National Health Fund than you do, and I hope that there is no waste of money there, that decisions are made in a rational manner. I hope so, and I wish I did. If you think these measures could be wasted there... [[But...]] I'm a little worried about all this, but I hope... [[But you...]] The senator's confidence in the opposition to the government institution is greater in this matter.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u59	But you talk about control all the time, you talk about supervision, you talk about it all the time today, you use those words. And all of a sudden, you want to spend 20 million zlotys without control?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u60	No, no, no, Mr. Senator... That's the way it sounds. Mr. Senator, I was only talking about those measures that are outside the budget and which are out of parliamentary control. We ask that information be made available on the origin of the funds, on their spending, etc. And we get a negative response. And we, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, Senator President Kazimierz Klein and the Supreme Audit Chamber, are talking about that. And the budget of the National Health Fund is, I think, under pretty thorough social control. There may be some reservations. I don't have one. There may also be doubts, but in general it is... There's a financial plan for the fund, there's a report from the Sejm, and it seems to me that the President of the National Health Fund is also coming to the Health Committee meeting and this report, as necessary, presents, so... Mr President, so far there have been procedures. Based on the NFZ procedures, he spent public money... Yes. And you said you wanted that money to be spent without procedures... No... ...only what the National Health Fund thinks is appropriate. That's the way it's been said here. Yeah, I mean. I'm saying, of course, that money is to be spent by the National Health Fund, but... No procedures. ...according to procedures that apply to them. Well, no, if I said that, I probably made a mistake. Of course, not what they want, but according to the procedures and plans that apply to them. Well, that's obvious. Well, I don't think that bad about the National Health Fund and any state institutions at all. You corrected the mistake. Yeah, so I just... I was surprised to see such a lack of confidence from the senator in the National Health Fund. No, you made a mistake. Maybe you have that kind of trust. Maybe later in the discussion, Mr. Senator... And here's the second question: Homeland Security and Intelligence. To us, to our committee came an amendment prepared by the petition committee and... Her name is... Committee on Human Rights of the Rule of Law and Petitions. Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions. And it was an amendment to allocate resources, after such an in-depth analysis... At the invitation of this committee, as far as I know, there were representatives of these services, the Intelligence Agency and the Internal Security Agency... I think they were. At least that's what I got here. Here, too, the senator confirms that these representatives were present. So there were legitimate representatives of these institutions, and I cannot tell whether the chiefs or the general directors responsible for finance were presenting their financial situation. And it's from these bosses... And this is also in the information we received as senators, all the senators, those who wanted to get to know it... Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, That these 2 services received significantly less funding, somewhere at 80% ... 90%. Well, then I'll have to find it exactly. I think... because I thought the senator was gonna tell me the truth, but I think it's a little... I did. Come on, Mr. Senator... But, Senator, please don't talk to me from the gym. I asked... But you're accusing me of lying. No, no. I don't accuse anyone of lying. The senator will find... Well, don't argue. I've got it. I've got it. All of you can sign up for the discussion. I'm just defending my honor. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's not a matter of honor. Not that... It's just about verifying this issue. I don't insist. Only this is a significantly lower amount than it was in previous years. And most of the directors received minimal, but increased resources, some a little less, some more. So I'm looking at the Homeland Security Agency right now... what's the big deal? If somebody gave me a quick hint... And then we'll know exactly... Well, if it was Pegasus and he could serve at the same time as the senator here said what the results were, then that would be good. But this, unfortunately, only one way goes... That's why working on the program... Internal Security Agency 91.89% Oh, yeah? That's 90%. I said... And now the Intelligence Agency is 89.6%. That's a little less than 90%. So that's what it looks like. This is an outrage. That's your senator's assessment. And most of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances recognised the same as Senator Marek Borowski and therefore proposed this amendment. And it was at the request or at the request... not at the request, but at the request of the representatives of these institutions. Were they general directors or were they the heads of these institutions... Mostly financial representatives. You mean the chiefs of finance. They were talking about this situation. They presented it quite dramatically at this meeting. I did not attend this meeting, but the rapporteur presented it to us so that it was such a dramatic statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u61	Thank you very much. Senator Alexander Swed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u62	Thank you, Mrs. Marshal. Senator, as I said earlier, your report focuses more on the presentation of these 16 amendments, which means... And with these amendments, you have generally talked more about who you would like to give this money to, and less about where to get it, who to take it from. I would like to refer here to this amendment, to which Senator Pupa referred, to Amendment 6, the biggest amendment, where you propose 20 billion PLN for health care. I would like to ask and ask the senator to explain so technically: why the 20 billion PLN? Who do you want me to take? Eventually, where do you get the money to spend 20 billion zlotys on health care?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u63	Thank you. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u64	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, this is described in detail in the amendment. In this report, this is Amendment 6. We offer various sources there, among others. We increase the revenue of state budget units in the field of municipal economy and environmental protection by PLN 6 billion. We also anticipate an increase in income from natural and legal persons and from entities without legal personality. Well, that's another increase, this time by 14 billion zlotys. This is how the majority of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance estimates it. May I ask, Mrs. Marshal?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u65	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u66	I'd like to ask you what the analysis suggests. Is it just senators' whims, or does any analysis point to such an increase in income?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u67	Mr. Senator, this is also the result of an analysis of the implementation of the budget of the previous year. It's about these payments, for example. for the sale of certificates, for the increase in revenue in relation to planned, estimated revenues, the increase in revenue that may arise from this. This information was also received from the Emergency Committee. They didn't make an amendment, but they suggested that these increases could be even higher than we are proposing here. That's what it says in this paper.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u68	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u69	I have two questions for Senator Kleina. I will ask the first question in the context of Senator Czarnobaj's question about the increase in the Prime Minister's income. I don't want to talk about the 700%. Because I just don't know if it's true, but actually there's an increase. In your opinion, shouldn't the increase in the expenditure of the Prime Minister's office be analysed in connection with the increase in competence? Well, for example. The entire Ministry of Digitalization is now part of the KPRM. There is no Ministry of Digitization in the budget, there is no money for digitization, that's just thrown over, I'm talking about paying employees, about the operation of objects, etc., etc. For parts of KPRM. We've passed it on. It was still in the previous term of office. The money for Polonia. Today, the responsibility of these funds, the 100 million, is KPRM. In your opinion, shouldn't the analysis of revenue growth be carried out in parallel with the analysis of what tasks have been transferred to the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u70	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u71	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! High Izbo! The Prime Minister's firm is actually growing, and further tasks are given to the Prime Minister's firm. This is not a sign of government power, but rather a sign of weakness. This shows that these tasks should be carried out by individual ministries Even newly created ministries, if necessary They are transferred to the Prime Minister's firm, whose role should be different. The Prime Minister's law firm should in principle manage the entire government, and right now there are more and more positions that we don't know why... This is, for example, a matter of computerization that you mentioned, namely the construction of a network, so-called. It's the last mile. This is actually quite inconvenient, as we talked about in the case of the around budget bill, even very inconveniently. And this is also the responsibility of the Prime Minister's firm. Polonia means we think they should be in the Senate They're also at the Prime Minister's firm, so the Prime Minister's firm is no longer the governing center of the entire government, and it becomes one of the ministries, and it's a multi-branch one. This is a mistake, and we see it, so to speak, very clearly. That's why we think we should get back to normal in this case. At the Prime Minister's office, only those tasks which result from the management of government matters should be carried out, all others must be transferred to individual ministries. Well, this is an abnormal situation. I'll just ask, Mrs. Marshal. There you go... It's created there, as you know, fictitious positions. Well, if there's any reason why we need to create a vice minister, because something, whatever... But we're leaving it on the side already. Oh, no, don't say that. You know that better than I do. No, no...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u72	There you go, Mr. Senator. Ask around. But this isn't a discussion, just ask.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u73	My question wasn't about whether you were a good judge of the structure of the ministries. Today it is the Prime Minister, according to the Act, who decides what the departments are, what are the ministries and who is implementing what. My question came up in the context of the budget. Would it not be fairer to analyse the increase in expenditure of the Prime Minister's law firm in connection with the increase in competence, with the increase in the number of departments or tasks that the NPRM carries out? Because it's kind of obvious to me. If nothing had changed, and the income would have increased, it might have been dangerous and strange, but if the competences were to grow, the tasks would have increased because some ministries were being removed and somebody was doing more tasks, then his budget would naturally have to grow. Am I right, Mr President?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u74	Mr. Editor... Tfu, tfu, tfu, I'm used to... [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[You're welcome.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: TVP...]] [[Voice from the room: TVN.]] [[Voice from the room: Of course.]] No, Senator Maria Jackowski is on TVN, and Senator Klein is usually on TVP. We agreed that everyone would be where they needed him most. And that's what the editors decide, isn't it? [[Yes.]] However, the majority of the Committee on Public Finances seems that the 40% increase in the Prime Minister's budget is not justified by any changes in competence made during the past year. And the other thing. This is the only instrument we have to try to rationalise spending in some part of the budget; we do it in such a way that we either add some resources or we take it into account. In this way, we force the operators of these measures to behave more rationally, which we believe is more rational. And that's the decision we made in this regard. Us, i.e. Most of the committee, I'm talking about most of the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u75	Thank you very much. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u76	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, you said in your speech a characteristic sentence: no willingness to cooperate with the government. I understand you're working with the committee. To this will to cooperate This time on the part of the committee The proposal to reduce expenditure in the following sections should be included: the President's Office of the Republic of Poland, the Constitutional Tribunal, the National Council of Radiophony and Television, the Institute of National Remembrance and the Office of the President of the Council of Ministers, including the expenditure of the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency? If you are lowering your expenses to all institutions that, in quotes, are you criticizing, is this a political activity or a substantive activity? [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u77	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u78	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! It seems to me that we, in the committee's work, are rather based on the substance of the matter. We seem to be able to do that every time we get there, and we are able to work together with the finance minister. Some of the amendments that... and that's what I've been saying all year. It is known that there are various disputes, various final decisions, etc., but we manage to do so. The hardest part is, in fact, working on the budget, here you are right, but then we always try to ask if the minister sees a better solution, or if it could be a source that we want to use for a given purpose, it could be different. We always ask, we want to help us in these situations. Sometimes, but rarely, there have been accidents like this in the past, suggestions that there might be something else... Today we receive basically only such information that the government does not support one solution or another. Of course, he has the right to do so. We even often say that we are asking for a clear answer on this issue in order to have help to vote. And as for those particular institutions that you mentioned... These proposals are not anti-government proposals or against the government, God forbid. They're only talking about other priorities that, according to most of the committees, we think should be met. What is more, some are also the result of opinions that reach us, such as: The matter of the Supreme Court and the National Judicial Council, because this decision concerns... I guess I'd have to say that I'd be more supportive of my lawyers. Well, after all, the Prime Minister and the President of the Party are announcing the liquidation of certain institutions, so we say: since you say that we are winding up an institution, it is also necessary to foresee changes in the budget of the State in order to ensure that the words are linked to the financial means for which they are intended. Right? And that's probably what we'd be able to show more. They come from declarations, announcements, different priorities. And we could probably show more cases that come from declarations, announcements, different priorities. Mrs. Marshal, the senator would like to ask, as I understand it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u79	Of course, Mr. Senator. I always let you ask, especially Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u80	Great. I'll keep that in mind. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Senator, just one sentence of correction. The KRS cannot be eliminated because it is a constitutional body. So there's been a mistake here, Mr. Senator. But that's another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u81	But we're talking about the shape that it is now. That's what we know. I am merely calling for these positions and the Prime Minister, and... [[Choice mode, not...]] So the formula is to be clearly changed. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriel Moravian-Stanecka: Thank you very much. Mr. Senator...]] I'm just saying what the announcements are. [[Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.]] I can't judge them, because it's not my competence, regarding, I know, the functioning of the KRS, etc. We're just talking about what we hear from the leaders of the party today.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u82	Thank you very much. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u83	Thank you very much, Marshal. Mr. Senator, I have a question for you. I understand that in your assessment and in the opinion of the committee this budget is, let's call it historic, because one of the main indicators, i.e. the projected inflation rate for 2022, is probably a little off-balanced from reality. Because even the National Bank of Poland predicts that these indicators, unfortunately, will be more pessimistic. And I have this question: is it possible, in your opinion, in one revision, to revise this budget, or will the dynamics of economic processes, inflation this year be so great that, unfortunately, we will be doomed to take several steps in this regard? Or maybe part of the budget. And that's my first question. The second question is related to the amendment concerning Polish Television. I'd like to ask you about these two billion. Namely the position of the cultural committee of the finance committee... [[Timer signal]] Then I'm gonna ask you this by asking you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u84	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u85	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I can't really tell if it's going to be a historical budget in the sense that right now, the situation with inflation... I hope, however, that inflation will decrease in the long term, because it is in the interests of all of us, all of our citizens. And you just have to act. I am talking about those who have competence in this matter, i.e. the Monetary Policy Council, about the National Bank of Poland, about the government. The idea is to really not sleep over the next few months and take such measures as will consist in rationalising the functioning of the State in order to reduce inflation. I was a little concerned in the budgetary sense and in the sense of functioning, for example. information like that. One of the Members on the TV show I sometimes watch TV, and he said that there would be regulated prices, introduced by the government on basic food products. And he mentioned the ones that should be regulated. I got a little scared because my generation remembers that when regulated prices were introduced, it was, unfortunately, a terrible result. Right? So I hope these were just individual statements... [[Stupid speech.]] Please? [[She was stupid.]] I don't want to use words like that because something's gonna be stupid, something humorous, something funny. So just in case, I don't judge it that way. But she's actually... It's an original statement. So I hope there's no need for that. As I say, I am convinced that if the budget is adopted here in the form that the government wanted, there will be no way out, he will have to be updated, probably in the coming months. After all, there have been situations in the past where we had high inflation. This is not an emergency. Of course, we're used to the fact that since the miserable year, 2,000... As the Platform ruled, inflation was falling, and even reached zero. Tusk's fault so we can say it now. So there was no inflation, and there was even a deflation. She held on for a while, but then it started to go up even before the pandemic and all those other threats. So I think we just need to get back to the rules, to guard the budget, to watch the spending, and so on. The point is not to let it unwind here, so that it doesn't unwind in this matter. I think we all care about that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u86	Thank you very much. Please. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u87	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I have a question about the TV issue. The Committee on Culture has asked for a picture of these two billion. It's about the tv bond money. I understand that these are not purely budgetary measures, because this is to be financed by bonds. My question is this. Even if the Sejm had accepted this amendment, wouldn't television have these 2 billion? I'm asking because there's a five-year bond issue bill. On the basis of it, television is guaranteed these measures annually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u88	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u89	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances mainly opposes this amendment. What motives led the committee of culture here, that is another matter. We weren't deep into it. We are opposed because of the way in which this task is financed, which has been prepared by the law. We believe that entering the area of issuance of additional bonds makes the budget de facto more opaque. It's all fueling inflation. I'm talking about measures to increase resources, actions that involve issuing bonds. It's just something we need to control. How can television be financed and actually public television? This is already a separate topic for discussion and I would not like to call it here. I think everyone has their experience with public television. Me, too. [[I'd like to ask because...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u90	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u91	Mrs. Marshal, I asked clearly. I meant, if this amendment were adopted in the Senate and then voted out in the Sejm and obtained support in the Sejm, would it not be rejected, would it enter into force, it would automatically mean that the Polish Television would not have received these 2 billion bonds, or would it then refer to a law which guarantees that these funds will be maintained for 5 years? Wouldn't this just be a conflict of laws? I have no knowledge of that, so I'm asking the senator. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u92	There would be a collision and it would certainly be necessary to find a way to meet the legal obligations. It is possible that the compensation bill should be amended.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u93	Thank you very much. Senator Zdzisław Pupa. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u94	Mr Senator, rapporteur! He was concerned about agriculture, about the price of fertilisers. The Commission sees the need for a destination, so I understood, 36 million PLN for subsidies, subsidies or regulation of the prices of fertilisers. We know that fertilizer prices are due... to the price of natural gas. How are you gonna settle this? How? What procedures do you want to apply so that the farmer can pay lower prices? How much will these prices be lower if the amendment passes?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u95	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! [[This concerns regulated prices.]] Sure. [[It's a matter of what we've talked about many times.]] Sure. Mr. Senator, I'm not particularly attached to this amendment. I think we, as a majority of the committee, made a mistake. It should be... If we want to achieve an effect, unfortunately this amount should be higher. We have suggested a little of the opinion of a representative of the agricultural committee who has miscalculated. This, of course, is not about subsidies or price regulation of fertilisers. I know... [[Because every reduction, every smaller amount will be...]] It's more about resources. These tasks have been carried out before, as the senator perfectly remembers. There were other amounts. Right? These are subsidies... The principle is that this would be one of the payments farmers receive, linked to the hectare of agricultural land. It would not be directly linked to the price of a specific artificial fertiliser, but to the area on which the farmer manages it. As I say, I am not fully attached to this amendment in this form. If it were to enter into force, it should be slightly improved. That's what the farmers' committee will do.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u96	Thank you very much. Senator Krzysztof Frost. [[This can be done in the form of amendments already tabled during the debate.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal, I have one last question for Senator Kleina. Some of these amendments, as Mr Bierecki pointed out, were reported in a similar or very similar form in the Sejm, and the Sejm rejected them. We know what most of them are. Should I submit amendments that have been tabled for a few weeks Not even a few, just 2 or 3 weeks ago They were rejected in the Sejm. Does it make any sense? Shouldn't we report as the Senate such amendments, which, however, are some kind of innovation? And we report what the Sejm rejected. Well, you can list those amendments that are the same as what was rejected by the parliamentary majority. That's my first question. The second question is a question for Senator Grzegorz Bierecki. Well, I said it was the last question for Senator Kleina. Mr. Senator, there's a lot of talk here about these indicators. Could you talk about growth rates, unemployment rates, of course inflation? When we are talking about budgetary indicators, we need to approach these indicators holistically. Inflation is one of the important indicators, but of course there are other indicators, e.g. historically low unemployment or relatively high economic growth, one of the highest in the European Union. This has also been recorded in this year's budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u98	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u99	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I would like to say that the strength of these amendments, which we are proposing here, is precisely that they are consistently reported in plenary or in Parliamentary work. They show what are the priorities of the formations that are in opposition in the Seym and rule in the Senate. That's what we think, isn't it? The Members feel the same way, and we have discussed it. The majority of the committee, but also the majority of the Senate, considered this to be some of the priorities of our policy. Wait a minute, sir. [[I just...]] Because you're walking around the room. [[I'm not leaving.]] Yes? Well, that's one thing. I'd like to draw your attention to a point. Now we are talking a lot about this Polish Lad, about this law, which has been adopted and with which there are now very serious problems, problems of various kinds, interpretations, etc. And yet we are accused that we voted against. Everywhere in the media, I hear that the Platform voted against this Polish Lad Act. So I want to point out that in the Seym and later in the Senate There was even more of it in the Senate. 70 amendments to this law have been tabled. We voted in favour of the bill with those amendments that were drafted here in the Senate. The bill went to the Sejm and there all these amendments were rejected. About 90%. The problems that the government has with the Polish Government's Law on the Polish Governance, it follows that these amendments, which were prepared and voted out in the Senate, were not accepted by the Sejm. Today, these problems would be much less. I'm not saying that all the amendments were perfect, but none of them were accepted. So? And today, it's a problem. And it's exactly the same with the budget. Amendments are presented in the Seym. They've been rejected. This is the law of the majority. So we go back to them in the Senate, to the most important ones, because not all of them repeat themselves. There are also other priorities, other objectives, especially in the context of these smaller amendments. In the Seym even a few hundred amendments were tabled by Members. Well, I don't know what's next, because this is the beginning of the debate, but I'm sure there won't be so many amendments here. There will be many fewer of these amendments if any amendments are yet to be tabled. So it just seems to me that in this case, on the budget, but also on any other matter, it is necessary to proceed quite consistently, otherwise it would be incomprehensible at all. The Sejm, the Senate, would all go in their direction. Well, there must be some consequence. This can be disagreed with, this is another matter, but we simply need to be clear about those matters that concern the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u100	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Szejnfeld. [[Senator Bierecki... there was a question for Senator Bierecki.]] Oh, there was another question for Senator Bierecki. Of course.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u101	Well, yes, Senator Frost asked a short question, but the answer will be long, because this question requires a longer answer. We would have to start by correcting the concept that my esteemed previous speaker used by talking about the inflation rate and trying to consider it as an indicator that will provide budgetary certainty. He assumed that the revision of this indicator would provide budgetary certainty and that this budget would be better, more reliable. Mr. Senator, in this case, we are dealing only with projections of inflation growth. These are just projections of inflation growth, this is not some indicator that the NBP president announced to us today, an indicator that we can say is going to be that much and that this is definitely going to be that much. That's not the way it is. These aren't interest rates. Indeed, the President of the NBP may declare interest rates within the framework of the Monetary Policy Council's decision. I explain this so that those who accept my words with less understanding can understand it too. It's a different indicator, he's gonna change. Perhaps as a result of the government's anti-inflationary actions next month or in two months' time, the President of the National Bank of Poland will revise these projections and perhaps revise them down. That's okay. Economists expect government anti-inflationary measures to have an impact on the situation during this budget period. It is therefore not appropriate to adopt at the moment a change in the indicator that is in the budget, nor is it appropriate to say that we are now to prepare a better budget based on the currently presented indicators. That's not the right assumption. The Polish State has adopted a certain budgetary management procedure. The management of the budget under changing circumstances is that the budget is being revised when more information is available when there is data, when there are real receipts, real expenditure. That's when the amendment is made. This is not done based on forecasts that are variable. A forecast needs to be adopted when a budget is being created, but you can't change the budget because the forecasts are changing in the meantime. This is a fundamental mistake in thinking, which I wanted to point out to Senator Kleina. Too many theories have been based on this mistake in this discussion. Finally, inflation needs to be said. We are dealing with a situation where such inflation is a global phenomenon. It also applies to the euro area. Lithuania reported 9.3% of inflation in November, Lithuania is in the euro area. What is the European Central Bank doing? Does it raise interest rates? No, he's not doing anything. One of the members of the Governing Board of the European Central Bank recently said that they might do something in 2024, but they will be watching how the situation will evolve in 2023 because they think it will expire in 2023. That's what we heard. There is no position of the European Central Bank, although inflation... I gave an example of Lithuania. There's almost 6% inflation in Germany. This applies at the moment to every economy in the world, regardless of what currency it uses. Banks react differently to this. Our National Bank of Poland has adopted a solution to suppress inflation expectations Not inflation, but inflation expectations Hence these small interest rate increases. All economists who discuss how to lower inflation say that budget expenditure must be controlled first. Budgetary expenditure should not be increased when inflation is in place, they should be under control. That is why these actions that you have now proposed to significantly increase budget expenditure on the basis of forecasts that are currently being presented are not anti-inflationary measures, they are pro-inflationary measures, not only because of the development of inflation expectations, as I mentioned earlier, but also because of the specific inflationary growth. Senator Frozz also asked about the indicators, about what Poland looks like in other countries. GDP in the 3rd quarter of Poland increased by 5.5%. , in the euro area by 3.9%. The inflation in the euro area in November was 4.9% , and the highest, as I said, was in Lithuania 9.3%. The unemployment rate in Poland and this is what we should be proud of, because this is the result of our actions, this covid shield is among the lowest in Europe and is 3.4% , and in the euro area 7.3%. I think that's... That's the November data I'm seeing right now. I'm reading from the source, so I think these are... These are CUS data. So we have a good economic situation. This budget guarantees us to maintain this good economic situation. In these difficult, changing times, we shouldn't jerk off this boat, we shouldn't increase spending based on uncertain forecasts. So much for my comment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u102	Senator Marek Plura. I ask you to ask Senator Bierecki remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u103	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshal. Mr rapporteur, the budget law, which you are defending if it were adopted without amendments, would mean that the amount actually provided for teaching in the native language of pupils whose families have counted themselves as national, ethnic or regional minorities would be halved. At the same time, Polish law has not changed either in the statutory scope or in the scope of regulations, the law which gives these families, these Polish citizens, or actually their children, children of Polish taxpayers the full opportunity to teach in this language, but also the law which imposes on our country this kind of obligation. How, therefore, will this obligation and right be achieved by adopting a budget law without amendments? Perhaps you know something we don't know about the fact that this law has somehow, for the time being, been secret to the general public, changed? How do I explain that there will be no money left to carry out the state's statutory duties? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u104	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u105	Thank you very much. This issue was widely discussed in the Sejm. I think those interested had the opportunity to hear the reasons why the Sejm made such a decision about the symmetricalness of international commitments, the implementation of agreements that bind our government to the neighbouring government. I am talking here about the Polish-German agreement, from which the Polish government is fulfilling itself. For many years we have been spending from our budget on additional funding of science in German, because Polish children can learn German as part of a normal educational program. We're talking here about a certain privilege that came from an intergovernmental agreement. The other party to the agreement fails, has not taken action to implement the solutions contained in the agreement. Since the principle of symmetry applies to international politics in diplomacy, the relevant tasks have been taken up. I think that signal will be heard. I think that this signal will be heard and that things will go in a better direction, that the position of Polish children in Germany will improve. It is also worth mentioning that Polish children in Germany... Senator Klein used the idea that the children of ethnic minorities would be held hostage by politics. Polish children in Germany find themselves in exactly the same situation and are injured in the absence of implementation of the provisions of the international agreement by the Government of the Federal Republic of Germany.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u106	Thank you very much. Senator Adam Szejnfeld. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u107	Thank you very much, Mrs. Marshalkini. I have questions for the rapporteur, Mr Kleina. I have a few questions, so if I don't make it, and I'm probably not gonna be able to ask them in one minute, I'm gonna ask the marshal for a vote to ask any more questions. I'll start with the euro. We've been talking about gold for a few hours now, and I don't think there's a single vote, and the question wasn't in the euro. I mean, of course. I'm talking in a nutshell. For European funds. Within this budget law, more than EUR 30 billion will be our contribution to the European Union. Of course, in return for this, we expect the European Union's funds. Firstly, I would like to know if this budget reflects the position of the Polish government 'Cause it's not hope, it's a position. The fact that we will also have all the means negotiated or not to do so in connection with the introduction of the rule of law in the European Union. Do we have, like, an echo here, a reflection of this in the budget bill? And the second point falls within the same question. Does this budget provide, directly or indirectly, because I understand that there are some reserves, etc., the solvency of Poland in terms of penalties imposed and charged daily to Poland for failing to comply with the judgments of the TSUE, the Court of Justice of the European Union? That's my first question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u108	Thank you very much. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u109	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The second question is simpler, i.e. the question of penalties imposed on Poland in connection with the judgments of European tribunals. This case wasn't the subject of our committee meeting. We didn't ask that, although I still had my head in the back to ask the Minister how the payment of those penalties that are charged daily is taken into account. I received earlier because I also analyzed expertise, information, only that... they should be paid out of the budget of the Ministry of Justice, but on the question of how technically this will be done, I think you will answer us, Minister Skuz. It is indeed a very serious amount and today it is already a huge amount. Few people are aware of this, but these penalties which Poland comes to pay for the rulings of tribunals are very high, all the more so because you can see that e.g. There is no progress on the turnaround issue. Moreover, even the Polish ambassador in the Czech Republic spoke in such a way... quite strongly criticized the way in which arrangements with the Czech Government were made in the Turov case. So it seems to me that this important question is better answered by Minister Skuz and will show where, in which part of the budget these funds are located. Probably they should, looking so rationally, in accordance with the rules, be included in the obligations of the State Treasury. I think that's where the amount should be. It's such a big amount... It seems to me that, in such a way as to say correctly, it should be included in the obligations of the Treasury. Some experts said But it wasn't discussed at the committee meeting. That's from the budget of the Ministry of Justice... But, as I say, the Minister will speak more competently on this matter. As far as the latter is concerned, we did not discuss this at the committee meeting, but in expert opinions this problem has arisen. These measures are not taken into account... We are talking about the National Programme for Reconstruction, about measures from the European Union that could go to support the budget. They should be connected, it's obvious, but probably the fear that they might not make it... And they weren't written in a satisfactory way.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u110	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Plura would like to ask Senator Bierecki further. [[I want to go on, too.]] Yes? Good. Is the senator here to see you... [[Yeah, yeah.]] Then go right ahead, and then Senator Plura. Maybe that's what we're gonna do.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u111	Here's another thing... I'm just gonna straighten out that, of course, I meant the zlotys, talking about 30.4 billion deposits, not the euro. Well, I was talking about the euro before, which is why I used that concept. Speaking of your last statement, rapporteur, let me just remind everyone that this is about EUR 127.5 billion in grants, EUR 32 billion in loans and EUR 27,8 billion in grants. You can't ignore it like the government ignores it. But back to the questions... The President of the Supreme Audit Chamber in recent reports criticised and questioned compliance with the principles of public finances, legislation, spending huge tens of hundreds of billions of dollars outside the state budget. I would like to know if, in view of such a position, the government's position by the President of the Supreme Audit Chamber is changing the rules for the current year... [[Timer signal]] ...corrects this, conducts these finances mainly through the budget to make all of this public, clear and transparent If we continue to see only this muddy water and the huge money will continue to go beyond the state budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u112	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u113	Mrs. Marshal! Mr. Senator! I've said this a long time ago. The issue of non-transparent public finances and spending large amounts of money outside the budget It's a parallel budget, as I said. It is one of the biggest allegations that we present as the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to the authors of this budget. That's what we've been talking about. This is a very serious matter. The Committee on Budgets and Public Finances has dealt not only with transparency of public finances, I would say, ordinary meetings. There was a special committee seminar on this issue, and we also adopted a position on this matter addressed to the Minister of Finance. We expect the principle, in general terms, of transparency and transparency of the budget to be the basis for preparing the state budget. I spoke earlier about this problem here, answering a few questions and presenting a report on the committee meeting. I confirm with all my power that this is one of the most serious allegations against the budget law in general as regards the principles that apply in the public finance sector.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u114	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Plura, one more time. [[Can you hear me?]] I do now, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u115	Thank you. You tell me about Polish children in Germany, and I asked a question about Polish children in Poland and their right to learn in their native language. I'm talking about a national, ethnic or linguistic minority. Maybe I'll ask that question more straight and shorter. Do you think that the budget law, which you are defending by asking to be adopted without amendments, gives the Polish State the chance to implement statutory obligations rather than the obligations and rights of somebody to learn their native language in schools pursuing this teaching for pupils from national, ethnic and linguistic minorities, since the amount secured for this purpose has been reduced by half? Do you think that with such a budget, Polish law will be respected in Poland? Does this budget give you a chance at all? I ask for a clear answer or an indication that you have no knowledge of this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u116	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u117	Thank you so much for that question. Well, the issue of teaching ethnic minorities is governed by interstate agreements. Like I said, I will stress this once again, the principle of symmetry and reciprocity applies. We have such an agreement, for example. with the Lithuanian Government. Let me remind you that we provide education in Lithuanian for Polish citizens of Lithuanian nationality, and at the same time the Polish minority, which is in Lithuania, benefits from the support of the Lithuanian state in teaching children of Polish nationality, Lithuanian citizens. So it is clear that such rules should apply. Unfortunately, they do not apply to relations with the Federal Republic of Germany. Here we are dealing with the denial of the existence of a Polish ethnic minority, we are dealing with discrimination within the framework of these mutual relations, with the long discrimination of Polish children who are German citizens or have the right of German residence. You're asking me if these resources are enough to carry out the tasks that are guaranteed by the bill. This law, as I understand it, is based on international agreements. [[No...]] First there are agreements, then there are laws. If it's different, I'll watch it. Well, that's my understanding of this matter. I am convinced that when it comes to the so-called. I understand that Senator Kleina has revived himself because the issues of teaching in the Kashubian language are close to his heart.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u118	I have a question for Senator Kleina: is there anything the senator would like to say? Because I saw that Senator... Maybe Senator Plura can get a fuller picture.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u119	I think that Senator Plura, asking this question, was quite specific about the principles on the basis of which regulations is financed the learning of minority languages and the only regional language in Poland, i.e. the Kashubian language. These principles are derived from the Act on National and Ethnic Minorities and the 2005 Regional Language. It was there that this obligation of the Polish state was introduced, the obligation to teach minority languages. This is also due to Poland's ratification of the Charter of National Minorities on National and Ethnic Minorities. Well, she's a little different in her name. This ratification took place in 2008, if I remember correctly. Of course, teaching these native languages does not depend, as the senator said here, on the principle of reciprocity, because it concerns Polish citizens. It cannot be that a Polish citizen is a hostage of Poland's policy towards another country. And it's not. And this is not how Poland has done it so far. Because this was simply the result of the policies adopted by Poland and the financing of these tasks. Besides, they were partly financed before the National and Ethnic Minorities Act came into force. And this constantly raised issue of Poles living in Germany and teaching Polish language in Germany... This reality is also a bit falsified. But it's for a separate discussion. A special meeting could possibly be held to clarify this delicate issue. In particular, those senators who do not have an orientation on these matters So to the end and to show what it looks like in Germany. I'm not a German lawyer here, and I don't want to be a German lawyer. But I just want to say that we received as a budget committee. I'm her senator, too. From Polish minority organizations in Germany, several writings are asked not to combine these two things. And they show that in some lands the policy on learning Polish is very well implemented, in other lands it is poorly implemented or worse, but that this issue cannot be viewed in such a simple way. This is where we need to explain, and here we could give you the places where this is done well. So it certainly requires some discussion, but certainly not in the case of amendments in the Seym. It's not about doing things like this, because this is not the time to do things. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u120	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u121	Mr. Marshal... [[Me?]] Mr. Marshal, to see Senator Kleina. In the course of these questions and these answers, which are actually related to a very small amendment... Because 39 million in relation to more than 500 billion in the budget is a little bit literally, but it really has meaning and substance, and in a sense symbolic. Well, when I was a member of the Committee on National and Ethnic Minorities in the Seym 20 years ago, it happened, unfortunately, even then. And it's been going on till now. In such cases, parents of children who have no connection with Germany are forced to declare... or, in fact, not so much as to declare what they applied for, which is equivalent to the declaration that the child has... [[Timer signal]] ...German descent. Are you familiar with such abuse? And what is the scale of these abuses? And is that... [[Excuse me, it's time, Mr. Senator.]] Yeah, that's right. Are you going to do anything about it? Because I think it's highly inappropriate to bring back what's been going on so far.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u122	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Senator! Of course, you are right that the amendment is relatively small, because it is 39 million PLN. Looking at the scale of the entire budget, this is indeed a small amount. But so often, unfortunately, sometimes we see this little thing without seeing the big spending, the big money. A smaller amount is easier for us to see and sometimes even easier to understand. I do not deny that there may be irregularities when spending money in particular places, in individual municipalities or even schools. I'm not saying it's not there. I can also tell you about the exact opposite examples. I know it from practice when it comes to teaching Kashubian. In some municipalities and schools there are a lot of children who would gladly volunteer to learn this language, and parents also want to, but schools do not accept, because schools or municipalities receive these grants based on indicators and more receive small schools. So if there's more students who learn this language, then... And in some places the municipalities say, well, we don't want to, because they're gonna cut our allocation rate. So it's the opposite of what you were talking about. There is more willingness to learn than the resources allocated to this purpose, resulting from the regulation of the competent minister on this matter. So I agree with the senator that this case might need to be analysed in such a way as to better and more efficiently spend these funds. But the problem isn't that there's too much of it, it's that there's not enough of it. This is generally the focus of local governments or NGOs that carry out these tasks. I don't think I would put it in such a way that the problems are related to this nationality, this ethnic group or any other. Nor can it be as Senator Bierecki said here, that this is the result of interstate agreements, because then it would turn out that some minorities that do not have their country and do not even have such expectations would be outside this system. National minorities or linguistic minorities are those who consider themselves to be Poles, but who use a different language or whose roots are different. They often do not have their own countries, and they have a natural, obvious right, because they are not citizens of a worse category, to exercise the right to learn in their native language. So it is simply that too many high-level policies are mixed up with this amendment, rather than really addressing those problems that are at local level and concern the functioning, the lives of these minorities and their educational opportunities. But I am, as you think... If we could look at this, improve some things, propose better solutions, I am in favour of it, but we need to do it in a calm discussion rather than by changing it with some kind of one budgetary amendment, in addition to making so much propaganda. That's not what's best for the cause.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u123	Thank you very much, Senator. Please ask the question of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski One minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u124	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, knowing your conscientiousness, integrity and kashuba accuracy, I would like to ask you something that I could not find. They are imposed on the budget of the state, on the Polish state financial penalties for violating the undueness of the judiciary and I would like to ask where the funds are saved for this purpose and how much they are. 'Cause it's gonna indirectly tell us when the government's gonna put an end to it. The Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, because I have no doubt about the intention in this regard, bearing in mind the interview given by Deputy Prime Minister Kaczyński at the beginning of August last year, when he said: we will abolish the Disciplinary Chamber in the form it currently operates, and thus the subject of the dispute with the European Union will disappear; the first proposals concerning the Disciplinary Chamber will appear in September and will be government projects. That is why my question is, what means are written for this purpose, where, at what level, because this will answer us when Prime Minister Kaczyński realizes his word in this regard.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u125	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u126	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Mr. Senator, the exact same question was asked 15 minutes ago by Senator Adam Szejnfeld... [[Then I'm sorry, and I'm asking you to answer me again.]] ...and I gave the answer. Let me just say that these measures are But the details will probably be presented by the minister. In the obligations of the State Treasury. I was talking earlier about the liquidation of these chambers... As a general rule, they are in these measures. In answer to one of the questions I confused the Disciplinar Chamber with probably the KRS, now I'm going to correct it so that it's understood correctly. That was actually my mistake.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u127	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Danuta Jazłowicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u128	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mr President, we have heard here today during this debate that, in view of the fact that for example. Germany does not devote so much money to the Polish minority to learn languages, and we should limit it. We have also heard insinuations that in my region, in Opole, parents are forced to sign a declaration so that children learn German. I'll admit, I'm amazed at what you're saying. In the first case, this indicates a very weak foreign policy, and in the second case it shows that we do not want Polish children to raise their skills before entering the labour market. My question is: did you discuss at the committee meeting that there should be more of these measures in order to allocate more resources to this kind of science in the amendment? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u129	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u130	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Mrs. Senator, we haven't discussed the possibility of more of these measures. We have accepted the amount which has been taken down in the State budget in the Sejm, because this amount, which is calculated in the State budget, is the result of the current regulation on teaching rules, in general, in minority languages, so I did not consider it to be a deliberate change of this document as a legal basis for payment. We thought it was rational to go back to the amount it was. We have, moreover, accepted the amendment that was drawn up at the meeting of the Committee on Education, Science and Sport, so we have not analysed this issue further in terms of all these elements, etc. Once again, we talked about this at the committee meeting. In these dams, which are intended for local governments, there is no distinction that this minority receives a higher allocation of the indicator and the smaller one per child. These differences concern only the size of schools, the number of learners, but there is no division that the child is one nationality or one minority.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u131	Thank you very much, Senator. The list of senators wanting to ask the senator's question has been exhausted. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski wants to ask the question, as I understand it, to the senator of the minority rapporteur. Please take the floor of Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u132	We are asking about this issue because Poland has set an example of a high standard of protection for national minorities regardless of what crew ruled. I would like to ask the senator whether, according to his knowledge, this is the government's position expressed by the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Prime Minister, or whether we are not dealing with the government's position in support of this amendment. Does the senator have an absolute conviction that he didn't make a mistake? Because according to my knowledge, the Federal Republic of Germany spends on supporting the teaching of Polish At land level, the Lands are responsible for this amount exceeding PLN 900 million, i.e. 200 million euros. So what would be the restoration of symmetry between the actions of the Polish authorities and the German authorities, if we are dealing with such amounts? Why did this amendment leave out Saturday schools or Polish schools in the UK, Ireland and France? In these first two countries they grow much more dynamically than in Germany.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u133	Thank you very much, Senator. I would very much like to ask the rapporteur to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u134	Maybe from the spot, 'cause that's gonna be a quick answer. [[You're welcome.]] Everything I had to say about this, I said in the minority report, which contains a proposal for a law without amendments. Please redirect the question of the government's position to the minister present here. [[What about symmetry?]] In my speech, I said what I thought about it. We are talking about central budget funding here. The Federal Republic of Germany does not include any funds in the federal budget to finance teaching in Polish. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[I understand that...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u135	Excuse me, Senator, I didn't give you the floor. Please, as I understand it, you will ask Senator Ujazdowski an additional question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u136	You are beyond the expectations of Mr Kowalski from the Federal Republic of Germany, who would change the system under the dictation of Law and Justice. It is about the money of the German taxpayer and the Polish taxpayer, about this comparison. This is not in your report, which is why I asked.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u137	You're welcome, Senator Bierecki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u138	Thank you very much. The matter is completely marginal when it comes to discussing the budget. We have spent very little time at the committee meeting on this matter, so please withdraw the allegation of ignorance, that is not the right word for this type of discussion. I am based in my statements solely on the parliamentary material from the debate during the sitting when these issues were discussed in the Sejm. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u139	Thank you very much, Senator. There are no further questions for the Senator of the minority rapporteur, but there are questions for the representative of the government. I ask you to ask Senator Paul Arndt's question. [[The government?]] The government, yes. [[Yeah, but I think the government has an opportunity to say...]] I'm sorry, but... [[Voice from the room: He hasn't spoken yet.]] I'm sorry, I'm so sorry, but this is how I was handed over here... Oh, no, first, the minister has to... Sure. I'm so sorry. Then I was misled. I'm so sorry. [[So there's no more questions.]] Yes, there are no more questions for either the rapporteur or the other Senator. The bill was filed by the government. The President of the Council of Ministers and the Minister of Finance were authorised to present the position of the government during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Of course you're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u140	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! After a sharp collapse of fiscal and macro-economic trends, especially after the decline in economic activity... [[Why don't you take off your mask? You'll hear better.]] May I, Mr. Marshal? [[Of course I do. Of course I do.]] Thank you very much. Thank you very much. After a sharp breakdown of trends and budgetary parameters... [[Definitely better hearing.]] ...and macroeconomics, especially after the decline in economic activity in 2020 due to the outbreak of the pandemic and after the pandemic rebound in 2021, a continuation of economic growth was assumed in 2022. In the forecast for the budget law for 2022, it was assumed that in 2021 real growth rate GDP will be 4.9%. In view of the planned decrease of 2,7% I can already say that this decline in 2020 after the revision of the calculations was less, as about 2.5%. In 2022, the real rate of GDP growth is projected to decrease slightly to 4.6%. The real rate of GDP growth assumed for the current year was in the range of market forecasts and was even lower than the media market forecasts and forecasts of the National Bank of Poland, as well as the European Commission, by about 0.4 and 0.8 percentage points. The difference is, among other things. the effect of not taking into account in the current forecast the measures provided for in the National Reconstruction Plan. As regards basic labour market parameters According to the forecast, employment growth should translate, following the increase in 2020, into a decrease in the number of registered unemployed and a slight decrease in the registered unemployment rate to 6%, respectively. and 5.9% at the end of 2021 and 2022. In terms of nominal growth in average wages in the national economy, it was assumed that its slowdown in 2020 was only a transitional phenomenon caused by a pandemic. The forecast in the Act assumes that the dynamics of this category will increase in 2021 and reach 7.4%, which is above the level observed in 2 years before the pandemic to fall to 6.7% in 2022. On the other hand, as regards inflation, the government's scenario assumed an increase in consumer goods and services prices of 4,3% in 2021 and 3,3% in 2021. In 2022. At this point, the fact that this forecast was within the range of market forecasts requires emphasis. It was in line with the forecast of the National Bank of Poland, it was lower than the media market forecasts and higher than the forecasts of the European Commission. Here I would like to point out that in October last year, international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank estimated inflation in Poland in the range of 3.3 and 3.6%. Today, with a high probability, we can say that the average annual value of this indicator is going to be higher this year than we originally assumed for the purpose of drawing up a budget law. For this reason, the government has prepared and implemented a package of solutions within the framework of the so-called. Anti-inflationary shield. The budget law for 2022 provides for revenue of the state budget of PLN 491.9 billion. Tax revenues are estimated at 453 billion 800 million, and non-tax revenues are estimated according to the forecast set out in the Budget Act. For the amount of PLN 35,3 billion. In the course of the parliamentary work on the budget for 2022 finally, after movements at level and revenue, and expenditure, the deficit was reduced by about PLN 1 billion, the expenditure closed at the level of PLN 421 billion 800 million, and the maximum government budget deficit could not exceed PLN 29 billion 900 million. In discussing the impact of the projected economic situation on the revenue of the state budget, I will focus on tax revenues, and more precisely: on the tax basis. In this respect, it should be borne in mind that, in fact, such a specific tax base is not a direct reflection of macroeconomic categories, and their forecast is only a set of turkeys for the development of a forecast of tax revenues. As it was said, This is also, it can be said, the pillar of the Public Finance Act, the revenue is a certain forecast, while expenditure is a directive, i.e. a limit. The projected revenue of the state budget, as I mentioned earlier, amounts to PLN 491 billion 900 million. The level of revenue of the state budget will be determined by further dynamic development of the economy, and as I have already said, in line with the macroeconomic scenario adopted, an increase of 4.6% was assumed. in real terms. Tax revenues are expected to increase by 6,8% in 2022. in nominal terms. And as I said, the macro-economic indicators that mainly determined this forecast were GDP growth, the average annual price increase of consumer goods and services, the increase of the average annual wage fund in the national economy by 7.5%. , increase of nominal private consumption by 9,2%. The level of tax revenue is also affected by issues related to the reform of the tax wedge in personal income tax, as well as by the increase of the second threshold from over 85 thousand PLN to 120 thousand PLN. The State budget projections also take into account issues related to the introduction of measures aimed at further sealing the tax system, numerous changes in tax preferences and changes in the share of local government units in income tax revenues from individuals. This is due to the change in the share of the municipalities from 38,23% to 38,34%. Turning to the expenditure side of the state budget, I would like to stress that the limit set in the budget law for the expenditure of the state budget, as I have already said, is PLN 421 billion 800 million. The budget for the current year provides not only for the continuation of the existing priorities of the Council of Ministers, but also for the implementation of new tasks. The most important are: financing so-called. 500+ programme, a new programme, i.e. Family Care Capital, funding from the 13th pension solidarity fund sub-fund and supplementary benefits for people unable to live independently, the valorisation of pension benefits from 1 March this year, the increase in 2022 of health funding to 5,75% Gross domestic product, financing defence needs of the Republic of Poland at 2,2% gross domestic product, increased investment in higher education and science. In the course of parliamentary work, a special provision was also created for expenditure related to the implementation of measures to mitigate the effects of inflation of PLN 6 billion 400 million. As regards the data of the whole public finance sector, the general government deficit is forecast to fall below 3% in 2022. GDP, i.e. by our estimates, would be ca. 2.9% GDP, therefore, would meet the convergence criterion. The planned amount of state public debt at the end of 2022 in the Budget Act is assumed to be PLN 1 trillion 193 billion, or 43.8%. gross domestic product, which means a decrease in this relationship compared to the 2020 relationship when this ratio was 47.8%. This report this year, compared to the 2021 relationship, would also have a downward trend, as this ratio is expected to be 45.4% last year. gross domestic product. The planned size of the entire public finance sector, understood as the general government, at the end, i.e. according to the EU methodology... This is estimated at PLN 1 trillion 540 billion, about 56.6%. gross domestic product, which means a decrease in this relationship compared to both in 2020 when this ratio was 57,5% gross domestic product, as well as the relationship in 2021, in which it is expected to be 57% gross domestic product. Dear Marshal, High Senate! Now I would allow myself to refer to the questions and discussions that had already appeared during the questions to the Senators of the rapporteurs. The first issue is the need to change the projected inflation rates. In my opinion, budgetary assumptions need to be dealt with holistically and one indicator cannot be selectively altered without showing the effect on others. Indeed, this inflation will be higher than it has been accepted, at least according to today's forecasts, and will be closer to this in the forecast of the National Bank of Poland for 2022, or 7.6%. Nevertheless, I stress that during the work on the draft budget law there were no forecasts so far different from those adopted by the Ministry of Finance. Here I would also draw attention to one of the amendments of the Senate Committee, namely the issue of pension inflation. It is estimated differently than the price increase of consumer goods and services. It is used for the valorization of pensions, i.e. the execution of pensions, and due to e.g. for the dynamics of rising fuel prices... In the basket of pension inflation we are not dealing with such a high percentage in terms of its estimation, so we estimate that in 2021, pension inflation may be lower than the price increase rate of consumer goods and services. Well, I have the impression that just a forecast of inflation of the National Bank of Poland has been shown, and a little bit of this inflation has been applied. I don't think that's the way to go about it. I stress that, given the specific nature of price increases in 2021, inflation may be lower than inflation, let us call it consumer inflation. There was also the issue of increasing health spending by 20 billion. I can say that 2 sources, the COVID Anti-Action Fund and additional funds already estimated on solutions of the Polish Deal, this amount of about 20 billion for 2022, I think, would simply consume. I would like to point out that the revenue from the National Health Fund's contribution was estimated precautionaryally still in July 2021, without solutions which included Polish Load, so for this reason the same amount of the contribution can be estimated additionally at about PLN 7 billion, plus the resources of the COVID counter-fund, which are necessary to continue the fight against the pandemic. There was also a question of how the health expenditures developed in the years 2015 and 202022. I would like to point out that in 2015 total expenditure was at the level of the budget law of 75 billion 700 million, which in relation to GDP, comparable GDP, i.e. 2 years ago, represented 4.63% At present, these expenditures are estimated at PLN 133.6 billion, corresponding to a comparable GDP of 5.75%. gross domestic product. I am not talking about additional sources for the increase in the contribution, as well as the resources allocated to health care under the COVID Anti-Action Fund. As far as inflation is concerned, I would like to point out that when it comes to the estimation of budgetary expenditure, the amount of inflation, which is projected at the level of the draft budget law, relates in practice only directly to one of the expenditures, namely the part of the expenditure on higher education. Science spends on real GDP growth and a special indicator. As far as such historical expenditure on higher education is concerned, it is the inflation rate that benefits them. However, I would like to point out that the budget in Part 28 for higher education and education and the resources in the heading "Science and higher education" in other parts of the budget proves that even if an inflation rate of 7.6% had been adopted, the budget for science and higher education in the whole part would have shown a surplus of about PLN 540 million. There are also speeches about the functioning of the second state budget outside the budget law. I can't agree with that. This is where the Ministry of Finance conducted the exercise, which was discussed in the Committee on Public Finance. With regard to individuals in, one can say, the non-budget economy, i.e. state special-purpose funds, executive agencies, budgetary institutions, state-owned legal entities, which include annexes to the budget law, i.e. are included in the budget law in the annexes, it can be said that their expenditure is estimated at about PLN 400 billion. There is no National Health Fund plan, whose expenditure is estimated at about PLN 108 billion for 2022. Nevertheless, there are such entities as e.g. Social Insurance Fund, Pension and Rent Fund, so I can't agree that this is some sort of, well, obscuration, non-transparent public finance system. Because what would be the alternative? Remove the Social Insurance Fund and finance its tasks directly from the state budget? I don't think that's the point. Emotions were aroused by the COVID Anti-Action Fund. Nevertheless, I would point out that this tool is an ad hoc action and its contribution to funding in the public finance sector is consistently falling. In the first year of covid, in 2020, the expenditure of this fund was, according to my memory, at the level of PLN 92.93 billion, last year this is, I think, closer to PLN 50 billion, and this year even lower expenditure is planned. Because this fund was created, and on the basis of the law, as such an ad hoc tool, to counter the direct and indirect effects of the pandemic. There was also a lot of emotion and discussion about the phone of trust. I would like to point out here that last year the spokesperson for the rights of the child was supported financially and on a permanent basis precisely in order to extend the operation of such hotlines. As I remember, it was the amount of approx. PLN 1 million, of which approx. 500 thousand was for expenses related to remuneration, with the employment of people needed to handle this hotline. There have also been discussions and amendments on the increase in salaries for teachers. I would like to point out that there is an amount of about PLN 3.7 billion in special reserve items 29, as I remember, in order to ensure systemic changes in the functioning of education and there are negotiations with the local government, with teachers, in order to develop systemic changes, including, of course, changes in the rules of remuneration. As for the budget of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, I think the answer to this question has already been answered here. The increase is not due to some direct expansion of the Chancellery of the Prime Minister itself as such, but to an extension of the scope of the action. I remember that, at the time of the amendment of the Budget Act for 2021, there were also allegations of this type, i.e. on the significant increase in the budget of the Chancellery of the President of the Council of Ministers in part 16 by PLN 200 million. In plenary I explained that this was due to an increase in the grant to the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency to support people with disabilities, because there were some tasks with which the State Fund for the Rehabilitation of Persons with Disabilities would have difficulties to carry out. And Minister Paweł Wdewik even thanked the Government's Strategic Reserve Agency for taking this action. There were also raised issues related to the special services budget. I cannot agree with the accusation put forward here, you can say, because the data may have been somewhat incomparable. I would like to point out that the services, both the Intelligence Agency and the Internal Security Agency, have been provided as part of the revision of the budget law. And one more important thing: at the end of last year they got an increase from the prime minister's general reserve. The Intelligence Agency received the amount of PLN 8 million, and the Internal Security Agency first received PLN 2 million and then PLN 5 million 700 thousand, which is almost the same as the Intelligence Agency. I... [[I'm sorry. These are non-extinguishable measures?]] I can relate. If this is the funds allocated to the so-called. the operating fund, I do not remember at the moment what they were meant for. This is supposed to be non-extinguishing measures. They pass through, they can be used in the following years. This is the specifics of the operation of the special forces. I also took the liberty of talking to the chiefs of these services. They are satisfied with the cooperation with the Ministry of Finance as well as with the budgetary limits adopted. There was also the issue of treasury bonds, which can be transferred to public finance units, units that are subject to the National Radio and Television Council, not only to public television. Radio stations have also received fiscal securities in the past. I stress that this is a question of supplementing the compensation payments for redundancies. And who are these parolees about? They concern seniors, people with disabilities, low income people and unemployed people. Thus, that is what President Kazimierz Kleina said, if these funds had not been transferred, the claim would have remained. The alternative would be to take away the privileges in the form of redundancies. Still, thank you to the committee. I'm not criticizing this solution, which is a bond payout. With the honour of serving as Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Science and Higher Education... Such measures have been obtained to strengthen universities, in the form of bonds. It was very well received, the universities were satisfied and satisfied with this solution. I would nevertheless like to thank the Senate Committee for not proposing to remove the possibility of transferring funds in bonds. The beneficiary of these bonds under the Around Budget Act could also be the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, could be the National Health Fund, could be the Agency for Medical Research and could be universities that intend to open medical courses or are at an early stage of development of these directions. As regards issues related to the National Reconstruction Programme, the total maximum amount requested by Poland and which can be achieved, if I remember correctly, EUR 23.8 billion in the grant part. The full loan pool to be used is EUR 34.2 billion. On the issue of penalties to be paid for infringements, I will say that the state budget is, as the President said, Senator Kazimierz Klein, a reserve in part 83 item. 16. It is a reserve for the State Treasury's obligations. There's a buffer of 1 billion 716 million. Of course, it cannot be commented on in such a way that it is only for claims for infringement of Union law. Mr Marshal, High Izbo, on behalf of the Council of Ministers, I would request the adoption of a budget law adopted on 17 December by the Sejm. I would like to draw your attention to the following. What else are the issues of changes in forecasting, and what else is the question of whether the budget is feasible. In my opinion, there is currently no risk of failure to do so either on the income side or on the expenditure side. This is my second annual budget as the Minister responsible for the state budget. I also had two amendments. Unfortunately, the first amendment, in 2020, was associated with negative effects when there were problems with the income side. The amendment assumed a record deficit of about PLN 109 billion. It was achieved well below this level, amounted to about 85 billion PLN. Last year was a positive amendment. Even though we were in the covid year, there was a reflection. And what did it turn out to be, High Senate? The deficit has been reduced by more than half in the revision of the budget law, by about PLN 40.5 billion and implementation will be even better. Currently we estimate the implementation of the budget of 2021 with a deficit of about PLN 25.26 billion. It is absolutely impossible to say that the government deliberately lowered some indicators, macroeconomic forecasts, in order to achieve better results. Predictably, we would have to show a higher deficit immediately, and that would make our standing in the financial markets worse. You can simply say that the variability of forecasts is very high now, this sensitivity is very high, but I think it is better to assume everything carefully. For example, I can say here about local government units, which for 2021 assumed a deficit of about PLN 25 billion. The last forecast I know of is 25 billion. I think this is definitely going to be a positive result this year, which is going to be a surplus. I've been predicting whether it's going to be a 10-digit surplus or an 11-digit surplus. I am now more inclined to adopt a more optimistic forecast, which is 11 figures. Now all I can do is predict if it's going to be nast or if it's going to be the beginning of the ten. Dear Marshal, High Senate, please adopt the budget law adopted by the Sejm. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u141	Thank you, Minister. At present, senators may make inquiries to the government representative related to the item on the agenda from a place that is no longer open to them. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? There you go. Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question for you. We are in the context of the Polish Order. We hear statements from various tax advisors and others that there are probably a whole range of professional groups that cannot benefit from the tax-free amount, will only be able to deduct it in the annual accounts, and will have very large overpayments as regards this tax advance - As a result of the ambiguities... Well, I don't want to go into the details of what it says anymore. So my question is the following. Are these measures therefore included in the budget? And what will the return of the funds look like? Because it looks like it's going to be an 11-digit number. That's how much I've done it. In 2023, when the annual accounts will take place. And the second line, smoking. I'm asking you this because people are calling me, you're here, and the case is causing huge social emotions. Can spouses who account together count off something if they are included in the mid-class relief parameters, i.e. one spouse exceeds the limit amount and the other does not achieve it, but is combined in the forks Is it or isn't it? Because there are different opinions about it. I would therefore like to know your position as a representative of the government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u143	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u144	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The Polish Government's solutions were first included in the draft budget law, now in the budget law adopted by the Sejm, and generally, in principle, the vast majority of Poles will benefit from the Polish Government's solutions. 17 billion will be left in taxpayers' pockets. As regards the answer to the question relating to settlements, I would point out that certain arrangements for other clearance of advances have already been adopted in the form of a regulation. And already this week, refunds are being made for over-accepted advances. Nor do we exclude further measures in favour of the taxpayer. As regards the question of the settlement of spouses, I will answer this question after consulting Minister Sarnowski responsible for Poland's Loads, and I will answer them, Senator, in writing. I'm not a tax collector, and I wouldn't want to mislead you here, and that's what I'm gonna say, that's quite enough... well, that's a tax nuance I don't know about.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u145	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u146	My question was: are they included in the budget, i.e. some estimate of the funds that will influence the budget for this advance tax charge and which will later have to be reimbursed? Because a lot of tax advisors talk about it. And we're talking back in 2023. Is this even included in the budget, or is this the kind of money that is not included in the budget bill? Thank you... That's what I asked. 'Cause it's gonna have to be returned later. Well, that's gonna be a budget issue for 2023, isn't it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u147	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u148	Dear Marshal, High Senate, as I said, the full effects of the Polish Government have been included in the draft budget law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u149	Thank you very much, Minister. Now let me ask you a question. Well, almost exactly at the moment when we started this debate, Prime Minister Morawiecki announced further tax cuts, so from 1 February the budgetary revenue will necessarily be less. Did he inform you before the Senate debate that the document we are discussing is already in some sense, from the government's point of view, out of date? Perhaps the amendments that the Prime Minister announced an hour ago are included in the budget? Though I'd be surprised. 'Cause how? And could you make any reference to how the Prime Minister's announcement of a reduction in revenue to the state budget just a few dozen minutes ago 'Cause that's the tax reduction 'cause you have a document that the Minister is presenting to us here today?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u150	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The Prime Minister's statement certainly concerns further action to create a new anti-inflationary shield. I can say that the first anti-inflationary trachea has been taken into account at the level of parliamentary work. This first shield is taken into account, and...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u151	Minister, but I am telling you that the Prime Minister announced a second anti-inflationary shield at the moment when you present the budget in the Senate. And I would like to ask whether this budget takes account of the programme announced at this moment by the Prime Minister, whether it does not take into account this programme, because this changes our attitude towards the document you are presenting to us. Is this document in line with what the Prime Minister of the Government says, on behalf of which you present this budget to us, or is it not compatible? It's just that. That's all I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u152	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Well, the project couldn't anticipate the need for further action towards a new shield. Nevertheless, I would like to stress with full awareness here that these movements associated with the new anti-inflationary shield do not require... There is no need for an urgent revision of the budget.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u153	Minister, are you telling me that the announced VAT reduction for food to 0% for six months does not have any budgetary implications? Are you telling me that the tax reduction just announced by the Prime Minister has no budgetary implications? Well, then what is it if it's not a tax reduction? [[Voice from the room: But we are working on the budget we were working on in September.]] But that's why, as a senator, not as a marshal, I'm asking you whether the document we're talking about is an expression of fundamental respect for us and each other... Is this document that we are talking about here and now, and which is called the state budget, in line with what was half an hour ago announced by the Prime Minister of the government who presented this budget? It's a simple question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u154	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As I have already said, the budget law adopted by the Sejm could not necessarily anticipate and does not contain the solutions concerning the shields that you presented today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u155	And in your opinion, do these proposals of the Prime Minister have no budgetary implications? [[The voice from the hall: Well, they do, because how...]] If you don't need to update your budget, that means they don't. [[Voice from the room: But it must be accepted so that it can be modified.]] [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Exactly. Sir...]] [[It's gonna happen a little later... not all at once.]] I see. Minister, I just want to point out that, in that case, it is clear that the document we are discussing today will be amended. That's the answer I wanted to hear from you, but I didn't hear it. I ask you to ask Senator Stanisław Gawłowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u156	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! About the other part, but in a slightly similar tone... The second item on the agenda of the Senate meeting is the Act amending the law on the operation of hard coal mining. She was accepted by the Sejm and went to the Senate. According to this law, already this year, PLN 6.6 billion will have to be transferred to 3 mining companies. Would you be so kind as to indicate from which budget position this money will be transferred? 'Cause I do. in this section, which relates to information about the draft budget, in part 48 position: Mine of Sulfury, Machów, joint-stock company in liquidation 3 million 200 thousand. I find different positions, but I can't find the 6.6 billion zlotys. And that's the first question. If you'd be so kind as to indicate where this money is saved on the expense side... Because we're working on a bill that went to the Senate at the same time. The second question concerns the financial plan of the State Water Farm Polskie. The financial plan of this institution from the beginning is something dramatic, some kind of misfortune. And the state as a government, including you as a minister, is your company. Because he predicts such a net financial result: minus PLN 612 million. Minister, because you manage how you manage You can't manage, so it's what it is. Do you have any calculations as to the annual losses resulting from drought or floods? Every year, there are such phenomena as drought or flooding every year. The underfinancing of this institution makes these losses only bigger. In fact, you will save in this part on renovations and investments, on depreciation. So show the loss of drought and flooding in Poland. What are they like? The next question concerns another part of the budget and revenue. They're related to Part 51. On the income side, you plan 5 billion 715 million... [[Mr. Senator, time. There's a minute...]] That's me in the next round, then. Because maybe the minister won't remember all the questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u157	Dear Marshal, the High Senate, as regards mining, the measures that may be transferred to mining may come from special provisions for continuing tasks, and this may also be what happened. The amount of assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21 (3) of the Financial Regulation is estimated at EUR 10000000. And already, as I recall, the companies involved in the restructuring were transferred to the treasury securities. As regards the issue of drought or flood estimates, the Ministry of Finance does not have such estimates. Well, it would require, I don't know, some very good knowledge of the actuary. It's more like insurance companies, I think. However, I would like to point out that in part 83 there is a reserve for actions that would prevent the effects of such adverse events, or even after such a phenomenon occurs, that these effects would remove or eliminate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u158	Thank you very much, Minister. [[Let me ask you something, Mr. Marshal, this is really gonna be one question...]] Okay, here you go, Mr. Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u159	In part 51, you designed revenues from the sale of emission allowances of PLN 5 billion, 715 million. The revenue at the end of 2021 is about 25 billion, 26 billion PLN exactly. You're talking about the Energy Transformation Fund being set up. To be honest, I didn't find him anywhere in the budget either. If you were so kind as to explain why you so grossly designed your income from this title and where, in which part of this mysterious fund is placed, I would be obliged.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u160	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u161	Dear Marshal, High Senate, in the state budget already adopted by the Sejm, this amount amounts to about PLN 8 billion 260 million as regards the exact revenue from the proceeds from the sale of CO2 allowances. The total amount of these allowances in 2022 shall be estimated at approx. 18 billion PLN. And this amount would be distributed as follows: the Fund for Compensation of Indirect Emission Costs 3 billion 750 million zł, the state budget 8 billion 260 million zł, the planned new Energy Transformation Fund 5 billion 990 million zł. If my answers aren't enough, then I think... There's a representative of the Climate Ministry with us, if he wants to supplement something or need a supplement, then... [[That's in writing, Minister, that's enough in writing.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u162	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Paul Arndt's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u163	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, health expenditure in the budget is set at 5.75% GDP. Please tell us which year of GDP is concerned. And a similar question when it comes to defensive expenses. And then there's 2.2%. GDP. Also: what year is GDP concerned?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u164	Dear Marshal, the Senate, as I have already said, when discussing health spending, this is GDP 2 years back, i.e. GDP from 2020, which is possible to calculate. And the data I presented, i.e. 2015... It's in the same relationship, which is like two years back gross domestic product... It was 4.63, and now it's 5.75. This is where the comparability is maintained. As far as defence expenditure is concerned, it is indeed due to the Treaty requirements that GDP is planned for 2022. Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, may I ask you a question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u165	Yes. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u166	Minister, as long as there's more spending on health care if we're 5,75%. translated into GDP planned for 2022?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u167	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u168	Well, I think it would be reduced... I can't count it in my memory. Nevertheless, I would like to stress that the data I presented 2015 and 2022 are comparable, i.e. in the same relation to GDP. So two years of GDP already calculated and announced... Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u169	Thank you. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u170	Only, Minister, GDP in 2020 was extremely low. He's supposed to be tall in 2022. I'd like to ask the difference. What would be the difference in health expenditure if we put this on GDP this year?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u171	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I'm not gonna count that amount in my memory. If we have a representative of the Ministry of Health... Maybe he has information about it, so if you'll allow the marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u172	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Ewa Matecka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u173	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. An important topic, an important question, because it concerns the health of children and young people, specifically students. Please tell me what the balance is on the student's Sports Day Fund account.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u174	Thank you, Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u175	Senator, I'm not gonna answer that question right away. If I may, I will answer in writing today. [[Thank you very much.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u176	Thank you very much. I ask the senator to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u177	I ask about the state of the money and about this fund, because I have been observing for some time in the financial plan of the Sports Activities Fund for Students under-income of this fund, especially the revenue that generates this fund from the fees for advertising alcoholic beverages. And for 2022, in the budget of this fund, the planned revenue from this... [[I'm sorry. Is the senator asking you something right now?]] I'll ask. ... They are at the level of PLN 17 million. On what basis, Minister, have the revenues that are collected on this fund for sports activities for students been estimated?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u178	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u179	Dear Marshal, High Senate! As I have already said, I will answer this question in writing after consulting the fund manager.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u180	Thank you very much. I ask you to ask Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u181	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Two short questions. The first concerns EU funds. Is this money that is saved on the side of both revenue and expenditure related to EU money... As I understand it, they do not contain any funds from the Fund for Reconstruction. Yes? If so, I would ask for confirmation. And second question. Minister, it's a matter of budget spending. Does budget expenditure as a whole I'm talking about budget-related expenditure. Is the GDP in 2022 greater than 2021 or smaller?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u182	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u183	Dear Marshal, High Senate! As for Senator Leszek Czarnobaj's first question, I think I answered that question. There are no funds from KPOs here, they are not planned in the Budget Act. As regards comparison, the relation to GDP of budgetary expenditure, I can say that this relationship is lower in relation to the revision of... In 2021, the budget after the amendment, because perhaps not yet implemented, would be 20.7% GDP and the 2022 plan is 19.2% GDP.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u184	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld's question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u185	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'll have two questions. If I couldn't fit in a minute, I'd ask for a second time. The first question concerns provisions for commitments. The Minister said that you provided for this in the state budget of over 1 billion 700 million, and that was the answer in the context of questions, including mine, whether the budget secured the funds for the payment of penalties imposed by the TSEU. I'd like to know in detail what that amount looks like. After all, we know that you don't take that amount from the ceiling or from some remnant that's still out there, and you put it in the reserve, but you expect it, you plan it, also the unpredictable ones, but in some amount certain expenses. So I would like to know for what possible, possible expenditure of the government, the Government of Law and Justice predicted this amount of PLN 1 billion 700 million.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u186	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the Minister to answer the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u187	Dear Marshal, High Senate! This amount is estimated in a slightly different way... [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u188	Excuse me, Minister. I would very much ask senators from different sides of the room not to interfere with the Minister's reply to questions. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u189	This amount is relatively difficult to estimate and is not estimated on the basis of Rather, it is estimated on the basis of past experience and amounts. I would also like to point out that this amount has been increased during parliamentary work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u190	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Senator Szejnfeld has one more question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u191	One more question, but I'd like to ask you one more question. Earlier, the Minister said that the payment of possible penalties was foreseen in this amount. Now the Minister says that you estimate the budget for this item on the basis of previous expenditure, i.e. previous budgets. There were no such penalties in previous budgets. I want to know and I want to have clear information from the Minister as to whether the government has foreseen and secured in the budget of the State for 2022 the funds to pay the penalties imposed by the Court of Justice of the European Union, or whether such measures are not foreseen. [[Thank you, Senator...]] Maybe that's the second question right away, not to prolong it. I would like to ask you about the level of inflation recorded in the budget, 3.3%, the Minister has already mentioned this. It is completely abstract, taken from the sky, even on the basis of previous estimates, including those that would have been done a year ago, not corresponding to... But I want to ask, and maybe you... [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u192	Excuse me, Mr. Senator, you're asking a second question and you're running out of time. [[Then I'll ask for another round.]] Third. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u193	Dear Marshal, High Senate! If all the budget amounts for commitments were known, they should already be included in the budget. However, the amount of 1 billion 700 million is sufficient to cover the State Treasury's obligations, including if there is a need to pay penalties for infringement of European Union law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u194	Thank you very much. Senator Jadwiga Rotnicka's question, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u195	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. And the Minister... [[Voice from the room: Can't hear.]] Can you hear me now? [[Voice from the room: No.]] Does it work? It's working. Minister, I am interested in securing funds for the valorisation of the salaries of university staff. I was approached by the General Council of Higher Education and Science with such a statement that there is no provision for this purpose in the law which our Sejm has adopted. In 2018, the government committed to revalorise this amount to 17%. However, between 2019 and 2021 this was only 7% And next year, only 6%. Thus, the government does not properly fulfil its obligations. And I have a question: is such a raise envisaged? And if not, why not? [[Timer signal]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u196	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u197	Dear Marshal, High Senate! The amount transferred to higher education is much higher than the minimum level By PLN 1 billion 278 million. And, as I said, already the issue of inflation or even increased inflation would not cause any subsidies to be needed here. Valuability mechanisms operate and the amount of spending on science and higher education year by year is increasing. There is a value-added mechanism for GDP and inflation. With regard to remuneration issues, I would point out that in 2020, in a difficult and covid year, the salary was increased by 6% from 1 October, with the effects of the passing. Moreover, at the end of 2021, in the revision of the budget law, universities under the Ministry of Education and Science received additional funds of over PLN 900 million. As I recall, 900 million went to college for investment-related tasks. At the end of the year, the reserves were still operational, including over 20 million vocational universities. We have a representative of the Minister of Education and Science with us. As far as I am concerned, a consultative team has been set up to develop issues related to the value of salaries in the field of science and higher education. I am also part of this area because I am an employee of the University of Warsaw. Nevertheless, I would like to draw attention to the following: if the effects of the next year could be ensured, the subsidy could also be used for remuneration. Because it doesn't have to be the type of record that applies. the budgetary sphere that this must be assigned to remuneration. The subsidy may be used for this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u198	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! One of the questions I'm going to ask is the Ministry of Education, and the other one's for you. I'm just saying right away: I'm not looking for a specific, accurate answer right now, just in writing, after any consultation. Well, the Polish Lad caused some kind of repercussions. An appropriate regulation was issued at the beginning of this year, but this regulation does not seem to include persons with double or more than 1 source of income. That's for example. pensioners working on more than one basis, etc. These, I would call it, imposed in this regulation some kind of authority to get an employee, at certain moments, just in the case of these people... [[Timer signal]] ...more than one source of income can unfortunately end in the fact that in 2023 these people had to pay back large amounts due to double collection of amounts related to... [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] PIT-2 is almost done. And a relief for the middle class. Minister, would you please take a closer look at this kind of thing? They are detailed, but they concern several hundred thousand people, as no more.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u200	Thank you very much. I understand that in writing, the Minister in this matter... I ask Senator Janusz Bladder to ask you another question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u201	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have information that financial advisors, who advise taxpayers on how to account for advances on income tax, give up this advice because they fear criminal responsibility for what they will do, because the regulation speaks about something other than the Polish Government Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u202	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u203	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I don't have the knowledge to refuse the activities of tax advisors. From what I can see, this is rather a constructive dialogue, there are webinars with the ministerial party in order to explain the principles of the functioning of this regulation, which has not come into force long ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u204	Thank you very much. Please ask Senator Mark Plura's question. It's remote.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u205	I'll have two questions. The first concerns the matter already mentioned here, namely that in the draft budget submitted to the Sejm by the government, the amount of educational subsidy, including the obligations to support learning in the mother tongue for pupils of linguistic minorities, was the same as the actual needs and above all the law that is applicable in Poland. From the Minorities Act and from a number of legal acts concerning the effects of this law in educational law. This well calculated subsidy value was halved by the Sejm. I have a question for the representatives of the government whether they will support an amendment prepared by the Senate's Finance Committee which will enable implementation of... [[Timer signal]] ...by the Polish government of law in the area I am talking about. That's the first question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u206	Thank you, Senator. This is the first and last question at this point, because it's past the time, the minute, for asking questions. I'm asking the Minister for an answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u207	Dear Marshal, High Senate! This question has already been raised in the discussion with the Senators. I think there is nothing more I can add here than that during the work of the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs, Minister Paweł Jabłoński pointed out the question of the symmetry of the actions of both parties. I think that this question is more specifically addressed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Education and Science as regards the substantive scope of the proposed changes and the related consequences.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u208	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Adam Szejnfeld for a minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u209	I wish I could. This is about the inflation rate that you have so abstractly accepted, i.e. At such an abstractly low ceiling, that's what I mean. In order for the Minister to remind us of everything and, above all, the citizens, what the inflation rate of the state budget has had to do with the issue of valorisation, indexing, etc.? What is related to the inflation rate in the state budget?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u210	Thank you very much, Senator. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u211	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I thought I already answered that question. As regards the issue of valorisation, such a direct link with the government's forecast inflation has only part of the expenditure on higher education. And as I said, even if this inflation was adopted at the level forecast by NBP 7,6% there is still a surplus of PLN 540 million. And the value of pensions is affected by pension inflation, which is the one for 2021, and not the one forecasted and recorded in the draft law, which is included in the Budget Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u212	Thank you very much, Minister. I have one more question. Minister, why didn't the Minister present to us today the details of this 2.0 anti-inflationary shield, which you presented to the Prime Minister, so that we know immediately what changes this will cause in this budget? Well, I suppose you'll admit that... according to the Prime Minister's declaration, these are changes regarding PLN 7 billion. These are major changes in the budget. Then why didn't you just introduce them to us today?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u213	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Today we focused on the debate on the budgetary law adopted by the Sejm. Like I said, there's no such effect. The second thing is this. Probably during our meeting there was a meeting of the Council of Ministers, which adopted...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u214	Minister, I'm sorry, but today you've told us clearly that... you're in charge of the state budget at the Ministry of Finance. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Yes.]] And you're telling me that the Prime Minister didn't talk to you, responsible for the state budget, about the proposal he made at the time you were in the Senate, about the proposal of PLN 7 billion? And that you don't know anything about it, the man who's responsible for the state budget? Either that or the Prime Minister is completely reckless about... [[Mr. Marshal, don't insult the Prime Minister. You know that the legislative procedure has just begun. You know there's a Council of Ministers meeting first...]] I'm asking you a question... [[...and then the project goes to the Sejm and the Senate.]] I'm asking the question, Mr. Senator. [[And now you're lynching the Minister's words...]] But I don't lynch... [[... not being entirely right about what you're telling me.]] I, Minister and Senator, ask the question. Does the Minister responsible for the state budget know the details of the plan for this budget, which was presented by the Prime Minister at the moment? That's a question. Do you know these details? [[Talking in the O.R.]] And why didn't he tell us about them? It's just that.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u215	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I didn't feel authorized, even having some knowledge on the working level, to make sure that before the announcement... After all, it could happen that during the Council of Ministers meeting there were other solutions, expanding, narrowing, narrowing actions... I don't feel authorized, I didn't have the authority to present internal information, not yet official, at the level of...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u216	I understand, Minister. But if the Prime Minister has now announced that these changes concern PLN 7 billion, you can at least tell us today that this will require a revision of the budget. Isn't that what you think? We're talking about a government proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u217	Dear Marshal, High Senate! I've already answered that question. I believe that even if an amendment is required... There is no need for an urgent amendment, and in order to update the budget, we need to adopt it first.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u218	I see. Thank you, Minister. I ask you to ask Mr. Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u219	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. One more question, Minister, to what you said. With regard to the impact of inflation on pay and pay matters, you replied. And please tell us if the assumed inflation threshold has had an impact on what is the expenditure plan of the individual institutions that are written down... That's what we had at the budget committee meeting... It's about NIK, CUS, etc. Has the expected inflation threshold had an impact on the expenditure plan of individual institutions?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u220	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u221	Dear Marshal, High Senate! Like I said, there's no direct need for valorization. With regard to the assumptions of the individual budget components, they are doing this themselves, assessing their internal needs, especially as regards current expenditure. There was a matter of the Supreme Chamber of Control here. According to my best knowledge, the budget portion of the Supreme Audit Chamber in the Sejm was not subject to any changes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u222	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Senator Marek Plura. One minute. Question asked remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u223	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question about whether the budget bill you are presenting to us also contains the necessary support measures for institutions that provide 24-hour or full-day assistance to independent individuals. I'm thinking of help homes, children's homes, health care establishments, hospices, many other places that budgets definitely can't handle. And they can't stand it without the support of the state budget. The current inflation, the increase in labour costs and, above all, the tragic rise in fuel prices, especially those of energy, gas and electricity. Unfortunately, these institutions are subject to the same rules as simply companies and companies. That's why, really, we're facing a tragedy... [[Timer signal]] ...many thousands of people dependent on the help of these institutions. Does the government see this situation? And did he see it early enough to include support in his recommended project in this regard? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u224	Thank you very much. Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u225	Dear Marshal, High Senate, the government notes such a situation and such a need to support the institutions that you spoke of. And such solutions will be included in the next shield.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u226	Thank you very much, Minister. As I can see, no further questions. Thank you very much, Minister, for answering all your questions. Let me remind you of the questions you have undertaken to answer in writing. [[Mr. Marshal...]] You're welcome, Senator Czerwinski. I'm so sorry. Mr. Senator, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u227	No, the minister maybe we can slow it down by now. Thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Finance Sebastian Skuz: Thank you very much.]] It is a representative of the Ministry of Education, so that the representatives of this Ministry can also be asked a detailed question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u228	Do we have a formula to... Honestly, Mr. Senator, I don't think I see that formula. Do we have any... There's a minister, right? A representative of the Ministry? In that case, is there a representative of the Ministry of National Education? Because Senator Czerwiński would like to ask a question if he is. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] You're welcome. That, Senator, would you please address the question to the Minister?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u229	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I refer to what has already been said in the hearing of the rapporteurs of the committee, including the Minister. I have before me the results of the audit of the Supreme Audit Chamber from the middle of that year, freshly, on the teaching of the language of national and ethnic minorities. This case was controversial, there was quite a lot of... I'll just quote one point. This means, of course, a proposal to the Minister of National Education: to ensure that measures are carried out efficiently in order to establish fairly the amounts of the general subsidy unduly received by the local authorities due to the excess of the number of pupils belonging to the minority. What does that mean? Well, there's something wrong with this system, this system is leaky. This is what I was talking about before: there are cases where and rightly for directors, teachers want to have as much money as possible. So they're also using leaks. And ordinary people, not belonging to a minority, without any such origin, are urged to declare such origin, just so that their child learns a little more language, instead of 3 hours, suppose, 4. But the fact that such a parent declares a non-Polish origin, other national origins, is also indirectly extorting such persons, depriving them of their Polish nationality. And now, Minister... [[Excuse me, Mr. Senator, time, one minute is for questioning.]] The thought has begun, Mr. Marshal, I will finish. There are weights, and I am talking to a large extent about counting subsidies, and they prefer members of national minorities. Practically speaking, this is a double amount for small schools, or even 130%. Minister, shouldn't you just give up so that a non-Polish child receives twice as much money to study in public school as a Polish child?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u230	Thank you very much. I ask the Minister to answer this question or to answer it in writing, because there is a possibility. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u231	This is short because this is not a strict remark directly related to these budgetary volumes or to the amendment, at all, to the subject and to irregularities. Of course, the control of NIK is always carefully analysed by us, we will pay attention and recognise the scale of this phenomenon, also so that pathologists, if they are, prevent it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u232	Thank you very much, Minister. But then I will ask if the representative of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is in our session, because then we could hear the answer to the question asked by Senator Ujazdowski, whether the government supports this amendment. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] I understand there isn't, so we're not in a position to know the government's position on this case. Since there are no more questions, I'm shutting this part down. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Paul Arndt.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! First of all, I was moved by the discussion. The Minister said this is the second budget he's working on. I can say that this is the 20th budget I am working on, previously in the Seym and now in the Senate, and I want to make it clear that this is one of the worst budgets I have worked on so far, if not the worst. The state of public finances is a complete chaos and it also translates into a budget. Because if we have a situation where we don't know exactly what revenue is due to constant changes, we don't know what some of the expenditure is, it's unimaginable for the budget. The budget is not only unrealistic, but above all it is opaque. The failure of the budget is mainly due to the wrong macroeconomic indicators that we have adopted. I agree with the Minister that in May, when the budget was being prepared, it was difficult to see elements that would have led to much, much higher inflation, inflation rates. But the budget work is still going on. Of course, the government pays the budget by 30 September and 30 September already some symptoms of inflation growth were. But it doesn't stop working on the budget either. The budget goes to Parliament, goes to the Sejm and there are possible changes. Some changes were made there, but they are definitely not enough. Here we are talking about this inflation rate of 3.3%. He really seems to be understated today. And you can look at it differently. Senator Bierecki says that if we talk about some excessive inflation rates, it'll be like a suggestion to society to somehow take it together and actually make it more expensive... to make these indicators grow. So much so, Mr. Senator, that we are talking about the inflation rate that the President of the National Bank of Poland was talking about. This isn't some ridiculous indicator we're talking about here. Perhaps inflation will be even higher in 2022. Well, but the president of the National Bank of Poland said that it will most likely be 7.6% And in the light of this indicator, we are planning a much, much higher income. But, of course, this does not only affect the assessment of the reality of the budget. We talked about this today. We do not know what penalties we will pay for unenforced regulations or decisions of the European Union. We do not know whether they are planned in this budget, whether they are planned. We don't know what the Polish Deal is like. We know there's a lot of confusion here, too. The Polish Government is Polish taxes and funds from these taxes have a huge impact on what the budget looks like. So here we have a number of unknowns that show that this budget is not good. The issue of spending outside the budget. We've been talking about this for a long time. All these funds that were created may not have been created last year, but the funds that are there are getting bigger and some of them are completely out of Parliament's control. Today's best example is the Justice Fund, from which Pegasus is suddenly financed. No one knew about it. No one was able to control it. Even ministers didn't admit to knowing about it. Well, it all shows that this budget isn't good. But this is something that we have already mentioned today, that there is a question of other funds, a question of other institutions, e.g. Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, which has a covid fund. There's no control there either. Mr Kleina said that even the Supreme Audit Office could not find out what the funds were, what the expenses were, because the bank was covered by bank secrecy. It cannot be that public money is protected in such a way that information about it is not available to the public, to the parliament, to the Supreme Audit Chamber. Here just a moment ago, Mr. Marshal asked about the decisions that Mr. Prime Minister spoke about today. These are new things, but they also affect this year's budget. Again, we do not know what the impact of these changes will be on this budget. All this proves that this budget is unrealistic. Another issue is the financing of certain bond expenditure. It should not be so that budget expenditure, public expenditure is financed by bonds. The Minister said it today, he said it. I'll do it again. That higher education receives bonds and universities are satisfied with this. I understand they're happy because if they hadn't gotten the money, it would have been worse. They will get bonds, so they are happy about it, but this should not be the way the funding from the state budget should be, this should not be the way the financing of individuals that are subject to the state budget, the public finance sector. Another point: non-extinguishables. Here again there is an event, because these unexploited measures should be released by the end of March. For some time now, the second year in turn, there is the possibility of spending them by the end of November, which is actually the second parallel budget, because we have the resources from one budget and the unexploited funds from the previous budget, which totally confuses the picture of public finances. And that, of course, should not be the case. The Minister says it's not a big amount, because it's probably about PLN 7 billion, but... it's a significant amount even for the state budget. These are non-extinguishable expenses, which are actually out of control. We are growing special reserves and, as a result, we are amending the Public Finance Act in order to be able to spend more under these special provisions. The Minister says it's conducive to budget flexibility. Probably, except some of these special reserves are out of control. Until now, at least the Sejm Committee on Public Finance had to give an opinion on the changes in the special reserves. This is not the case now, and it is not because the committee would have given a negative opinion of one or another, only because of the opposition not to know about these changes, because the opposition knows less, the more it seems to be better for the budget. So that these are further examples of the fact that this budget is not transparent, that this budget is inappropriate. Senator Bierecki made a proposal to adopt the budget without any amendments. Well, it's so interesting for me that... I would be able to agree with this proposal on the assumption that this budget will actually go to the president as soon as possible and that the government will be able to reflect on the amendment. If this amendment were to take place in a short period of time, it would only be for the benefit of this budget. But the minister asked about the amendment says she's not needed, or at least she's not needed at the moment. If it turns out, as it has been in previous years, that the budget will be revised at the end of the year, it will not be good again. Because if it turned out that this amendment was just about reducing the budget deficit, then I would be willing to accept that argument. But so far the practice has been that at the end of the year there were new expenditures, there were some new plans that had to be implemented, and most of the time it was not rational. Well, you can't spend the funds planned at the end of November in December. All this shows that this budget is not good. We as Senate are in this poor situation that we cannot reject this budget. Well, the situation is that any Senate law can reject, and the budget law is the only law the Senate can't reject. This is our pain and our problem. But we've offered a series of... [[Timer signal]] ...corrections and these amendments to some extent improve this budget, although certainly not enough, because they appear... [[Timer signal]] [[Time, Mr. Senator.]] I'm almost done. This is becoming increasingly new information, but it shows that this budget is unrealistic. So that I hope that, after all, the government will lean on this budget and send us an amendment in a short time, because this budget is completely unrealistic.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u234	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Leszek Czarnobaj.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u235	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There's a saying, Minister: show me your friends, and I'll tell you who you are. In paraphrasing this saying, you can say, show me your budget, and I'll tell you how you manage the state and what the state is. We need to look at the budget which the Minister presents on behalf of the government and which we are talking about, in the context of three laws: the around-the-budget law, the law of Poland Load And if we are now talking about the fact that the Polish Government Act does not clean up the Polish system more, Minister, then... I would like to say that the Polish tax system has so far been one of the most complicated systems in Europe. Well, after what you've done for this system, no one will ever know what's going on. It's not an invention. Here one of the senators talked about the fact that financial advisors, economists give up responsibility, because if tax officials say they can't provide information and have no knowledge of interpretation, how can those involved in financial advice? Minister, I'm going back to that order and what you're going to change with regulations. This is amazing. The law that regulates tax matters is governed by the regulation. A statement from the president of the Social Security Office, who says something like this, has been made. Mr. Minister, I don't know if you know that tax advances and all the danins in 2022 will be... [[Talking in the O.R.]] But I'd like some peace, gentlemen... ...they will be counted and paid at the level of advances from 2021. Well, it's amazing... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Mr. Marshal, may I have your... [[Exactly. Gentlemen, if you'll excuse me, I would very much ask you to behave yourselves in a manner that is appropriate to where we are.]] That speech about regulating such a duplication of laws... One of the famous economists and lawyers, Mr. Piotr Kuczyński, said that this is a madhouse, this is something crazy about the whole system. And that's why I'm considering it, Minister, while there's still time. Maybe it is worth considering the issue of Polish Disorder, maybe it is still worth to make a bold decision about a quick change and start it from January 2023, leaving only the amount free of tax or some of these elements. And coming back... Before I move on to general affairs, I will refer to what happened here during the discussion and what the Minister replied to. Minister, it seems to me that this budget, and especially its changes, is being introduced and constructed as it has often been in the e-mail of Minister Dworczyk, the PR. And I have the impression that you found out today what you were asking the marshal, i.e. that there will be an additional shield, what is the amount here, then, because it is not in the budget of 6 billion on mining, about 6.5 billion on a new shield... Everything okay, only that means that it is already a historical budget, Minister. And that's why we're having reservations. Founded inflation 3.5% and building the entire budget on such assumptions, plus all other things concerning the knowledge related to the building of this budget are already obsolete, both on the income side and on the expenditure side. You say that what is beneficial for taxpayers is 17 billion PLN, which will remain in the pockets of Poles thanks to the introduction of a new law, the Polish Load. That's easy to count, Minister. As you said, with inflation rising to 5% The additional income you said at the committee meeting is estimated at around 10 billion. So assuming inflation is almost 2-fold higher, it can be assumed that it will definitely be approx. 20 billion zlotys, 18 or 19 billion, some say 24 billion. So it's easy to count, Minister... No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And what the Poles were supposed to gain by introducing a new order, which also results in the state budget, is also history. Now, here's a simple example. One of the main beneficiaries is people earning less than PLN 2.5 thousand. Let's consider the retirees here. Well, I'm retired, so retired people are very close to me. Minister, let's assume that there is a pensioner who gets PLN 2.5,000 gross. As a result of the introduction of the Polish Order, he theoretically gains PLN 425 according to your philosophy. But if we deduct a 9 percent tax on it, because that's the way to talk about it, the health tax of these 400 zlotys already makes about 200 zlotys. And if inflation is 9% That's another 400 pairs. So when these two numbers are added, this man, this pensioner, who gets 2.5 thousand zlotys, has, in short, in the back. So don't talk about profits from Polish Disorder anymore, it's out of date. Maybe this was still valid in June, but today, taking into account inflation, taking into account the 90% health tax, this person loses. I asked you if inflation had an impact on building government spending. You said it was made so that you wouldn't need to update... Well, let me remind you what the heads of these institutions said at the meeting of the budget committee. First of all, they said that wages in those institutions that submitted information were planned, as I recall, at a level of approximately 6.5%. or about 7.5% Something within these limits. So assuming that as a result of this high inflation 1 salary is backwards Every one of us is like this. It can be said that these people will earn nominally more, but in purchasing power... And we know these situations. I remember especially when, so to speak, a dollar was thrown and 50 gr was falling. These were times of hyperinflation in the Polish People's Republic. In this connection, we also need to talk about purchasing power. But this is a wage issue. As for what was said, how expenditure was constructed, inflation was also taken into account. So everything was planned. and is planned to be 3% or 3.5%. Therefore, the heads of these institutions or economic directors say: we will cut investment expenses because they are to be cut off. Because you have to pay the energy bill, which increases by 700%. But investment expenses can be cut. What does that mean? After all, the main or one of the problems of the Republic of Poland is the low level of investment in Poland. Property investments, Minister, including budget decreases compared to previous years compared to GDP. So most would have to be given, as I understand it, for consumption, and as little as possible. For investments. And if we add to that now that the investment climate in Poland is a climate that completely does not encourage investors, then we have a huge problem regarding investment in Poland. And if we're talking about a positive thing, which is a 5% increase in GDP... But do you know what respect it is for investment to be the same as in previous years? That would be GDP in the order of 7% by 8%. , and even some estimate that about 9%. This gives pure cash an increase in revenue to the state budget No more, no less. It's at the level of 40.45 billion. So wherever you touch it, this budget is bad. What Senator Arndt said... I can do it all these years. I'm not, but, Minister, so illegible, so scattered budget, we haven't worked it out yet. Thirty-five or 36 funds, for which only on a daily basis is shown in the budget that there are... That is why we are improving this budget. And what do we encourage you to do, Minister? If this budget was up to date in September and today it is completely out of date on both the revenue and expenditure side, please come to the Senate Budget Committee and we will begin... [[Timer signal]] ...joint work on the topic: how to improve this budget in terms of investment, R &amp; D expenditure, education, health, local governments, so that it is a budget that is most effective on the expenditure side and which on the revenue side is real. This is a fiction, an illusion. It's a historic budget that's gonna vanish. And, Mr. Marshal, the last sentence so as not to... Minister, I could believe that this budget is very conservative and that it is built with caution, but I will remind you, Minister, that as we spoke last year during the debate in committee, why there is such a careful budget, you said: we are doing well, we will watch. And then what? 80 billion on the plus side. We read in the newspapers: beautiful government management, effective, 80 billion. And from the start, we said this is a completely undervalued budget. And this is the same completely underestimated, unrealistic, absolutely unpro-developmental, non-pro-educational, non-pro-government. He's just a nutter. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u236	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Alicia Chybick. [[Voice from the room: Remotely.]] Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The total budget for 2020 is PLN 521 billion 836 million 950 thousand. Of these, only 14 billion, 734 million, 856,000 are intended for health. Of course, there are 108 billion of them in the National Health Fund, but this is money for medical services. Eventually, if hospital executives negotiate or spare... But they don't spare. Hospitals are in debt to more than PLN 15 billion. On 4 January, we held a meeting of the Senate Health Committee, where we discussed this budget law in parts of the relevant scope of our committee, i.e. in Part 46 of the Health Service, 66 of the Patient Rights Statement, 83 of the Special Reserves and 85 of the voivodeships as well as financial plans of the Preventive Health House in Jurata, the Gambling Fund, the Medical Fund, the Medical Technology Assessment Agency and Tarification. Two worlds appeared as a result of the discussion that took place. On the one hand, Minister Gadomski, who was there, presented the land to us with milk and honey, full of money, with fantastically cut budgets, and on the other hand we see health protection dying. Plus, there's a pandemic going on right now, and the end of this pandemic can't be seen that much. We have the highest mortality rate on COVID in Europe, and there are already new mutations of the virus, such as Fluorone, i.e. A combination of flu and coronavirus, and Deltakron, i.e. Delta to Omicron connection. Therefore, the measures which, apart from the budget, have been planned for the fight against COVID itself are undoubtedly and will be very much needed. The Senate Health Committee has prepared amendments to this budget because we think this budget is bad. He's too small, he's badly cut, he doesn't have any improvement in health care. And to know what it's like, you just have to ask the patients how long they're waiting for advice on the first line, how long they're waiting for an appointment with a specialist, how many ambulances are in the driveways, how many people are losing their lives before they go to any health care facility at all, how many units have been locked up. At least today two troops in Tarnobrzeg were suspended. In Krakow closes almost the entire children's hospital, which was operating within the university clinical hospital. So you can't say that health care is good. People with rare diseases are beating themselves to fund drugs that can save their lives, which can very often improve their quality of life. The Senate Health Commission has therefore proposed to increase budget expenditure by PLN 20 billion. I've been talking all along. And I emphasize that, again. That's not enough. It's a big sum, I know it, but I've been a parliamentarians for 11 years and I've heard that health care will be a priority. And for the last seven years, I've heard it over and over again in pink. But let's look at these tables. Well, these tables don't show that health care is a priority, because this budget increase this year... Besides, the increase in the National Health Fund budget is not due to the government because it's money from our pockets. And back to the amendment, I'll explain why she's so needed. It will be used to increase the subjective grant to the National Health Fund, grants to finance guaranteed hospital treatment benefits, in particular in the field of cancer and cardiovascular diseases, and in the field of psychiatric care, outpatient care and medical rehabilitation. In these 10 minutes I am unable to tell you how bad it is at the moment in each of these areas, how delayed are the diagnosis of cancer, how the treatment of cancer has been established. This is obviously the result of the pandemic, but, ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Marshal, Minister, all this could be done if there was a will and if there was money for it, and it was much more money. The deficit in health care, this financial deficit, is much bigger than the 20 billion. What do you think? Why is the staff so desperately lacking? Is it because he's so fantasticly paid that he's delighted with his earnings? Did you know that this disorder, or disorder, caused some doctors and some medical personnel to get less pay? Is that how it's supposed to be? That's the support? That's the priority. p.o.b. health care? No. And that's why the 20 billion is a drop in the sea. Hospitals that will be able to perform full hospital treatment will undoubtedly be able to pay better for the staff, but above all they do it for the benefit of patients. It's not gonna be like at the moment when cardiologists say they've never seen heart attacks like this, because everything is delayed, there are queues everywhere, and the situation is really very difficult. Amendment 2 concerns the return to in vitro infertility treatment. And that's what 100 million zlotys are meant for. It's necessary. There's nothing to talk about, ladies and gentlemen... We have a negative balance on the ratio of deaths to births, specifically births to deaths. More people die than they're born. Childhood has not increased at all in recent years, but is falling dramatically. We will be happy to see 360 000 small citizens born this year. Another very important amendment is an additional 100 million for psychiatric treatment of children and adolescents. Ladies and gentlemen, what happens in child psychiatry is a real drama. A psychiatry clinic is built, TVN is built, it is built within the framework of the Children's Health Center in Warsaw. But in addition to building this building itself, it is necessary to immediately take care of children at school level psychological and psychiatric care, if necessary, so that there are no situations that have just happened, i.e. That a 12-year-old girl lost her life, committed suicide, even though she was under the care of the state, the proper services. It's all gone wrong and screwed up. Why? Because psychiatric and psychological care is bad. Therefore, I strongly appeal to the Senators of the ruling party to lean on these amendments, because these are not political amendments. These are amendments that will save the lives of many, perhaps also of your families. The disease does not choose, also psychiatric disorders in children do not choose. This can happen to any of us and any family. And the money that's been prepared for all of this. This is clearly stated in our committee. They're too small. I know it may be late because there's no staff. Those two troops that were closed today because they weren't... This hospital posted an announcement that it lacked: urologists, neurologists, oncologists, emergency medicine doctors and radiologists. Well, tragedy. And this is one hospital. There are far more hospitals on the national scale. Getting doctors from the East is a good method, but they also need to be paid, they need to be trained when it comes to language. You probably know that Prof. Matyja, the head of the General Medical Council, challenged the Supreme Court judgment of 29 December 2021 to the Strasbourg Court because of the lack of record when receiving doctors from the East regarding the knowledge of Polish language. How does a doctor like that get along with a patient at all? Communication between the doctor and the patient is also the basis for good care of the patient. In short, this budget is bad. As I hear it, everyone's saying it. And I can say the same about the health budget. [[Timer signal]] I know Minister Gadomski doesn't think so, he thinks this budget is great, but in fact the 14 billion... Indeed there are almost 2 billion 829 million PLN 756 thousand more. Budget expenditure of EUR 1 billion, 762 million, has been planned. Budgetary expenditure in the Health Protection section in other parts of the budget fell by PLN 1 billion 857 million 652 thousand, so there is improvement in all points. In fact, it is estimated that over 10 billion, almost 11 billion more, will be added to the National Health Fund from our pockets. It's hard-earned money worked out by no one but employees, that is, people who work and who lose money now in New Deal because they work hard, they earn more, so you have to give them a head start. And it's their money that's gonna put the National Health Fund budget on its feet right now, which is still gonna be insufficient. There are more and more modern therapies, more and more modern diagnostic techniques, which are very expensive. You can't look at the health budget. as for other parts of the budget, for which this living man is not directly behind, often in danger of life or illness. Because if the cost of treatment goes up... I'm not talking about what's going on with the gas, the current that hospitals aren't able to keep this deficit of 15 billion, he's going to rise... And there's no plan in the budget to even it up in some way so that they can catch their breath so that they can hire good employees. Surely this would not be the case if health budgets were better cut and managed. And already, indeed, the scandal is that the budget for the fight against COVID is secretly broken by confidential, that there are no rules there that you can buy anything where masks, broken ventilators, you can buy whatever you want. It's a waste, isn't it? It's public money. They should be issued openly, maybe with some accelerated methods, but they should be under control. Summa summarum this health budget is, in short, really useless. And I appeal. And I hope that will happen. In order to vote on health improvements in a cross-party way, because they will translate directly into health and life maybe also into our families, but most importantly, Poles and Poles. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u238	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Wczyła will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u239	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I brought a printout of my research. This is about 50 basic indicators about my body. Based on them, any doctor can determine what my health is, what my condition is, how many percent of my body are muscles, how much fat, what I should do to be even healthier. Of course, such conclusions can only be drawn if this certificate is produced honestly, honestly, comprehensively, by a recognised and commonly used method. Such a certificate of state of the country is, or should be, a budget. He should also give us an answer to questions about the financial condition of the country, about which organs we can and should strengthen and which bodies we can manage on our own. Can we get this answer by reading the draft budget presented by the government for 2022? No, I'm afraid not. First of all, the budget does not inform about the state's finances, because e.g. The state spends more and more resources outside the budget, i.e. beyond Parliament's control, and often even beyond the control of the Supreme Audit Chamber. It's like I'm just showing the doctor the other side of my test results and expecting an accurate diagnosis. Unfortunately, no, because when the budget went to the Senate, the Prime Minister announced changes, among others. a tax system that will affect the entire budget. It's like a doctor showing up with an out-of-date test and wondering that his diagnosis doesn't say anything about my current ailments. Unfortunately, no, because the budget inflation rate is 3.3%, although everyone knows that it will be at least twice as high. Importantly, this is confirmed by representatives of the government and the President of the National Bank of Poland, who also provided this indicator. I'm gonna move this to the medical field: it's like my doctor says I have falcon eyes, and he told me not to wear glasses. I have the impression that budget makers should be ordered to wear glasses. Perhaps then they would notice that they create a budget for a country that exists only in their imaginations, because real Poland looks completely different. This is enough reason not to believe that we are dealing with a fairly prepared budget of Poland for 2022. Why, then, did such a budget arise? There are no professionals in this government? Well, they are, but the budget in this government is made up of not so much financial experts as rather PR professionals. Because the budget is not created by the rulers to show the state of finances, threats and opportunities of Poland in the world of finance, i.e. the state of health of Poland, but to please Poles. In other words, to make the government more appealing to Poles. Although the government often says untruths, it offers beautiful visions to Poles, e.g. Saying all you have to do is not steal, so that the money will be enough for everyone. That sounds beautiful. There is no need to invest, so the share of property expenditure in the budget may change for the worse. Only that confrontation with reality shows where it leads to a rapidly growing sphere of poverty in Poland. The budget is therefore largely a PR scam robbed of the desire to save and earn extra billions in Poles and Polish entrepreneurs. Cheating on the inflation rate gives the government a chance to show higher than the pseudo-prognosis of tax revenues. As experts estimate, it will be about PLN 12 Low inflation is also less pressure on wage increases. Therefore, the budget was also lied so as not to pay more to Poles, which, as I said earlier, are already suffering the consequences of the cost. The budget will lie to our country's finances for one more important reason for me. It is built at the expense of those spheres of functioning of our country, which can be overlooked in the budget. There are many such spheres. I'll mention one very important thing to me about self-government. It is important because we are entering a new EU financial perspective in 2022. In previous years, local authorities implemented more than 50% public investment. Today's PiS policy, also planned under the so-called. Polskiego Łódź, effectively local governments from these investments pushes away. Local governments estimate that over the coming years, i.e. in the period during which they could invest with support of EU funds, they will lose about PLN 200 billion on the Polish Lad and on tax changes. It will be a drama not only for the institutions of the local government, but also for all Poles, because it is the local authorities that satisfy their most important needs. It will be a drama from which we will emerge longer than from the heritage of the Polish People's Republic, especially since it is not known whether the Polish government is involved in the destruction of the spheres which should be independently of it, is at all able to attract EU funds to Poland, gain. Your Senate, for formal reasons, we are unable to reject this poor budget in our House, we are not even able to radically change it. But a few wounds you'd like to give to the local governments, we can save them. Therefore, the Senators of the Civic Coalition, after consulting local authorities in their regions, submitted several dozens of requests for support for important local and regional investments with a total value of about PLN 1.3 billion. These investments will change the lives of many Poles in their nearest space. They concern everyone, regardless of political views, which is why I hope that they will receive the support of the senators of all options. That's the support I'm calling for. I also have a request for the support of amendments to increase measures for victims of violence and discrimination, funds for the phone of trust and psychological assistance and psychiatric treatment. It's not big money, and my appeal has no political background. This is largely true for young people, with whom in 6 days we will deal with the mental health of young people in Poland as part of the work of the Parliamentary Youth Team together with Members, Senators and experts. What is the condition? The mentality of young people shows this graph. The number of suicide attempts in Poland almost doubled between 2017 and 2020. During today's debate, there was a debate on funds for the phone of trust. Some senators were amused. Let me remind you, 5 million zlotys, the very fact of dealing with such an episode in the context of the budget Funny stuff. Let me remind you, then, that we are talking about an institution that the Ministry has deprived of its resources and which has intervened in 3.5 thousand cases where the lives of young people were at risk. Imagine this graph if this phone of trust wasn't there. Where would that hill go? Here. It's not funny anymore. And you can imagine that this graph will look like this if we do not help an institution that has supported young Poles for 13 years and saved their lives. I hope, High Senate, that none of you, Dear Senators, will have the courage to vote against proposals to increase psychological support, including support for young people, and funds for local and regional investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u240	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Well, it's no surprise that I'm gonna talk about local government finances. In recent years, i.e. since 2019, as a result of 3 changes in the personal income tax system, local governments have lost a significant part of their current own income and have received various transfers from the state budget, in the vast majority of assets which were insufficient, discretionary and most often marginally politicised. As a consequence of these changes and due to the rapidly growing expenditure in recent years, the level of operating surplus of local government units is significantly reduced and some of the units are threatened by systemic liquidity loss. This is the situation where local governments start this year. There are different opinions about this situation. From the government we hear, really otherwise, the idea that there is absolutely more money in the local government. The local government units look at this differently, namely the trend that was broken after the tax changes that I mentioned, and in comparison with the costs, they feel a sharp loss of their own income and those that can be spent on current expenditure. The problem is the disturbed independence and financial independence of local government units. Transfers, especially those which are discretionary and incidental, will not replace own income. These transfers come from non-budget funds, pass through the Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and, in addition to development subsidies, do not reach beyond 2023. Well, there is no guarantee that, in the event of debt financing, these compensations will continue to go to local government units after this year. The next problem is the distribution of that money. It's dishonest. I can say it straightaway. It's not transparent. An example was the Government Local Investment Fund. There the differences between local governments, which were identified with different political forces, was 10:1. You just can't spend public money. There are similar abuses in the Polish Lodz. This strategic investment fund or strategic investment programme is financed by the COVID-19 pandemic prevention fund. In this pandemic the big cities are the most lost, they have lost the most, and they have the smallest subsidies. The small municipalities, their municipalities, had many times more, up to 46 times more subsidies than lost revenues or increased costs. If we could compare the grants to the municipalities, I'm sorry I'm gonna use that term. It would turn out that these differences are counted in multiples, and if we compare the small municipality with the town of the wrong, it turns out that the difference is 9 times. Even within small rural communities, these differences are significant, and in a few dozen percent of these grants vary per capita. That's the problem, because that's what extremely different assessments come from. I heard from the Minister that someone from the local government said that there was never that much money in his community. And that's possible, that might be true, because if money went there many times higher than that resulting from the average or distribution according to reduced income or increased costs... It could be true. But in many municipalities and cities financial liquidity is at stake, and that is true too. Plus, there's discrimination against city dwellers. And it's happening now. In rural municipalities It's out of politics, although I suspect it has a political basis. The money per capita from the distributed pool of PLN 23.5 billion is six times more than per inhabitant of the city. This is in no way defensible, it is not equalizing disparities or reversing preferences, it is a mistreatment of some citizens. This is the case in a situation where, according to the government document, the national city policy already in 2020 was 10.5% of the operating surplus in rural communities. in terms of income, and in cities it was 3.5%. So there's already been a discrepancy, and now it's just being deepened. Unfortunately, often there is a false picture of the financial situation illustrated by the operating surplus at the end of the year. If, at the end of 2020 and 2021, large financial transfers are made to local government units, these local authorities show this either in operating surplus or in free resources. This money goes to the next year and it's shown again in the next budget. It falsifies the picture. And another lie about reality. The revenues of self-government units are higher than they planned. To this unprecedented financial parameter, a financial forecast was used, which was created by local government units in May 2021, i.e. at the top of the pandemic, when everyone imagined the economic crash and these forecasts were extremely cautious. And that's a reference to everything that's going on right now. It's just not fair. The trend of growth in the revenue of local government units has been significantly reduced and it is quite different from the trend in the state budget. That's where the profits grow much faster. I am also paying attention to current income, because the lack of them is at the moment the primary problem of local governments. And the question of education subsidies. I will ask your senators to support an amendment that increases the amount of education subsidies for local governments. Minister Skuza on 4 January at the meeting of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration said that local governments have enough money to pay even more for educational subsidies. The cost of living education is rising rapidly, while the increase in education subsidies is lower than the inflation rate assumed in this budget, which is still unrealistic because it is 3.3%. The increase in subsidies is even lower than what the Ministry of Education proposed by almost PLN 1 billion. This is a further reduction in the share of expenditure on education in the state budget. This share is steadily falling, and I think that is not what it is all about in planning the future of Poland. The transfers from the state budget, as I said, are mainly for investments. Some people are very happy about it. This might be a good direction if there were sufficient current own income, but they are insufficient. I will also draw attention to the often committed, quite obvious error. Namely, the income of municipalities is compared with the revenue of cities on the rights of the county, especially rural municipalities. If it turns out that rural communities are very poor... of course, they are different, just as different cities are on the rights of the county. But remember, in cities on the rights of the county, the income of the municipality and the district is added up. And this is compared only with the income of the municipality, in the case of municipalities, and cities that do not have the status of a city on the rights of the county. What does that lead to? Maybe this is a good way to win elections, especially in this part of the country, which is more financed, but with the good of the state it has absolutely nothing to do with it. This unfortunately leads to a halt to development in existing growth centres. And it's dangerous for you. That is why I am calling for this policy to be changed, and in this budget at least increase educational subsidy, because it is critically important for local governments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u242	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Aleksander Pociej will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u243	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo, let me say very briefly, I will actually limit myself to reporting what was happening at the meeting of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, where most of the committee supported the following amendments. Deleted as follows: Article 4 1 sum of PLN 19 million 647 thousand and is allocated this amount... Chapter 75102 of the Supreme Court of Justice increases benefits to individuals by PLN 169 000 and the amount for the current expenditure of the budgetary units is the Supreme Court of 9 million PLN 656 thousand. In Part 8 of Chapter 75101, the Ombudsman increases the current expenditure of the budget units by PLN 2 million 800 thousand. Part 59 of the Interview Agency increases property expenditure by PLN 7 million. Very brief justification, High Izbo. The Disciplinary Board shall act at least against the European order in the light of the decisions of the TSUE concerning constitutional order and objections to its choice and functioning. It can be said that it is also against constitutional order in Poland. The first president of the Supreme Court, Professor Manowska, who has already been selected by the current political agreement, suspended the operation of this House. Mr Morawiecki has repeatedly stated to the public that this House should be wound up as part of a broader judicial change package. Unfortunately, it turns out that the Prime Minister is politically weaker than his Minister of Justice. Nothing has happened for a long time, which, as we all know, exposes the State Treasury to multimillion-dollar damages due to the failure to execute the ruling of the TSUE. In this respect, the opposition and our committee wanted to help the Prime Minister out face-to-face, removing the budget of the Disciplinary Chamber, which we believe is acting illegally. How did the majority of the committee decide to distribute this money? Interview Agency 7 million PLN. There is no dispute between us, there is no doubt that the international, political situation, which is getting worse from day to day, requires very far-reaching and efficient intelligence activities. How important it was and how it happened, you could say, a blazer... I don't know if it was a bluff from our services, it's a matter of considering what these services are handing over to decision-makers. But about June, July could be predicted... In some ways, we have information that the intelligence has warned the rulers of what is happening in Belarus. Nothing's been done for three months. We believe that the international situation has only been more serious since then. This is the second budget in which, in a drastic way, which seems to be an absolute disgrace, spending on the Intelligence Agency is being reduced. The agency's representatives said openly that this is practically an end to this service. We believe that it would be irresponsible not to move in the situation we are in, a serious amount to the budget of the Intelligence Agency. For many, many years, since 2016, the Ombudsman's budget has been reduced every year, even though the Ombudsman has been given an additional, very important function, additional responsibilities. The Ombudsman has been given an opportunity, an obligation to deal with applications for an emergency complaint. This is the impact of about a dozen, tens of thousands of applications a year. However, the budget has been reduced despite this expansion. It is true that the last budget has been slightly increased, but the years when it was reduced and when there was an absolute shortage have been marked by the institution's activities. To my surprise, the Ombudsman resigned, asked for it... said he didn't want the money. Therefore, in the budget committee, this money was transferred to the Intelligence Agency. Sorry, Homeland Security. The last amount is nearly PLN 10 million. Madam President of the Supreme Court complained about this, which is a broader problem concerning the justice system at all, that not only judges' wages are frozen, which, I think, is a smaller problem, but also co-workers, and that the money that is for the administration of justice, and in particular the Supreme Court, has been inadequate for a long time. It is therefore proposed to transfer this amount from the Disciplinary Board to the Supreme Court treated in gremio. Thank you very much. This is all I have to say about the amendments of the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u244	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Beat Małecka-Libera will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u245	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 20 billion extra money for health benefits is our response to the crisis, to the drama that is taking place in health care. Today, at the conference, Minister of Health, Minister Niedzielski, said, he admitted that 100,000 deaths due to COVID-19, which we have exceeded, is a health disaster. Yeah, it's a health disaster, but apart from this disaster, we have a drama in health care. At the meeting of the Health Committee, the Minister ensured that the financial resources for health expenditure were sufficient. I think it's big, but it's a really big problem with funding the system. I'm going to quote a few numbers, a few indicators that will confirm how dramatic the health situation is. First thing, public health. Pandemic completely, but it's totally ruined your health. The indicators we have at the moment, against the background of Europe, are simply appalling. Life expectancy, which has always been worse than the average survival rate in the European Union by about four years over the last two years, has decreased by another year and a half over the last two years. It's a drama we'll be doing for years. And of course it's caused by a pandemic, but not only. He's caused by a health system that's become completely inefficient. We treat only with COVID-19, we deal with the pandemic, forgetting that we also have patients with other diseases, including a large group of chronically ill people. Dying. It turns out that for reasons of avoidable mortality in Poland is almost 40% higher than in the countries of the European Union. On a massive scale, we are also killed by inequality in health. In Poland, the difference in life expectancy between an educated person, with a higher education and a professional person is 12 years. Such a deep inequality in Mom's health. Cancer mortality rates are 30%. higher, by 30% Then we recognize and diagnose cancers, and we're 30% behind on prevention. The availability of healthcare is a subject that we often talk about. Queues, access to a specialist. Only during the last year, 2019, the waiting time for access to specialist doctors increased by a month, in 2018, 2019 was... Sorry, in 2016, it was 2.9 months, about 3 months, and at the moment it was 4 months. There are also specialties where you can wait even about 1 year. All this causes, Ladies and gentlemen, that patients are increasingly not taking advantage of public health care, but must stress: they must take advantage of private advice. At the moment private expenditure directly from the patient's pocket is 40 billion PLN. Another very important thing that sets Poland in the tail is spending on drugs. Public drug spending accounts for only 36% total expenditure. And that's the second worst result, after Bulgaria. Thus, the situation at the moment absolutely requires increased funding. And what can we say in this budget debate about funding? Well, High Izbo, we're spending 44% right now. EU average, although our GDP per capita is 71% the average in the European Union. That proves that health wasn't and isn't a priority, even though we have an epidemic. Poland spends less per capita health than half the EU average. Budgetary changes and so-called budgetary changes overlap all of this. Polish Lad. In Polish Lada there is a change in the financing of health care. At the moment, the main money will flow to the National Health Fund and this is the result of a change in the deduction of health insurance contributions. Of course, this will increase the budget of the National Health Fund, because it has already been said many times that these are funds directly due to our contributions, but at the same time we see and see that the amount of money from the budget is relatively lower. Of course, it is not important whether we finance health protection only from the National Health Fund or from the budget. What is important is how much money will be spent on this health care. And here's the bill, so-called. Act 7% GDP, which would seem to guarantee us a decent level of financing for health care. This question has been asked by the Minister, and it is due to the fact that when a percentage of GDP is allocated to health care, a GDP conversion of 2 years back is applied, so in 2022 GDP will be calculated against GDP in 2020. In 2020 there was the biggest health crisis and the nominal GDP level is also lower. The Minister didn't know if he'd be any shorter. Well, it's going to be about 20% lower. What does that do? This makes public health expenditure only 4,75% in 2022 the budget for 2022, which is less than in the last 2 years. Ladies and gentlemen, the situation, as I said, is dramatic: 100 000 deaths on COVID and how much more on other diseases. This situation is not an end-of-the-moment situation. She's growing. She makes the minister call for an increase in the number of covid beds, because he is aware that we are ahead of the epidemic and that we will have to build beds for other diseases as well. All of this puts an extra burden on hospitals. The Polish mess that will reign in hospitals looks so... I asked the directors how they estimate the increase in the costs of their services that they would have to pay in 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, the prices of electricity in hospitals are rising by 20%, 300%. I've got evidence of that. I've collected data from a number of hospitals that confirm this kind of growth. Gas increased by between 25% and up to 500% in some units. Please pay attention not only to the unit price of gas and energy, but also to the increase in costs of catering, food, cleaning, medicines, because in hospitals there is a service form of activity and the price of each of these services will increase by a correspondingly high percentage. How, then, are hospitals supposed to ensure safety? How are they supposed to cover these additional costs if there is nothing to say about an increase in the valuation of health benefits? That is why we want the 20 billion zlotys that we propose in the amendment to go to the National Health Fund for the increase in health services, for the services that hospitals will have to cover this year. Because what's about to happen in hospitals is going to be a real health drama. And it's not just a question of epidemics, but also of all the sick people who won't be able to go to the hospital, because first of all, there won't be room, second of all, there won't be any energy, and third of all, hospitals won't have money for drugs. If you do not understand this and do not want to support this amendment, that means that there is a disaster in front of the patients, there is a year they will not survive. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u246	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Adam Szejnfeld will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u247	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! It is remarkable that, as you know, I am mainly concerned with finance, economics, economy, entrepreneurship, and I have decided to start my speech today on the health budget, which is the thematic space that my previous speaker discussed. I said that this is significant because today I don't think there can be anything more important for the state, for society, for the nation, for Poles and Poles, especially today, on the day when we consider the state budget, because it is a dramatic, tragic, unimaginable day. If anyone had ever told us that in Poland 100,000 people would die in such a short time, and we are talking about deaths directly related to COVID, not those I don't think it's elegant, it's not pretty called that. No one would believe it. It's 100,000 people, and the president doesn't announce national mourning, the government, the government doesn't take any initiative to honor the memory of those who have left. We, the opposition today at 6:00 p.m. to Piłsudski Square, near the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, invite everyone to commemorate those who are no longer there. But why am I talking about this in the context of the budget? Well, when I look at items among expenses and I see that almost 60 billion zlotys have been earmarked for war, we don't know with whom. This is a national defence measure. And for war we know what, because with pandemic, for war we know what about, because about the health of citizens, in this budget almost 3 times less money, less than 23 billion PLN, I can say that these 2 items can actually be left without comment on such a dramatic day as today. But, as I said, I am primarily concerned with economic affairs, entrepreneurship, so I would like to look at this budget from a few perspectives: the economic perspective, the business perspective, the perspective of the social partners, and finally also from the perspective of the importance for the state budget and the public finances of the European Union funds. And what do you see from this perspective? Well, Dear Sire, in recent years what characterized the Polish economy is above all a radically low level of investment. And it must be borne in mind that these investments, rather than consumption, stabilise economic development, stabilise and develop the labour market. We have had the lowest level of investment for 25 years, and unfortunately this budget for 2022, linked to the American Prime Minister's announced dream, which was to be fulfilled by a new order, and caused... [[Voice from the room: Polish Lad.]] ...Polish nightmare after January 1, this year, will not change anything in this regard. As I look at it, for example. for research in this respect of entrepreneurs, I see that they show really bad indicators. 37,5% surveyed entrepreneurs say that their investments will not be higher than current ones, as much as 12.5% Says he's gonna radically reduce it, and Attention, that's the worst indicator. More than 30%, 30.36% he doesn't plan to invest at all. Why? Because in a country where there's no stability, there's no certainty about what's going to happen tomorrow, what the government's going to come up with in a moment... Well, today we are also witnessing a change in what we are discussing here, the state budget, from a moment to moment by the Prime Minister at a press conference. It's how entrepreneurs can plan investments, make commitments, loans, invest their funds if they don't know what the economic, economic, financial conditions will be like next week, next month, and what next year? And let us remember that large, important investments are planned for years, even for 10, 15 years, when it comes to the rate of return. Small and medium-sized enterprises are the worst in this respect. There is already absolute drama and tragedy here, and the budget for 2022 in the opinion of representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises does not change this. Another perspective, social partners in the Social Dialogue Council. Well, they didn't support that budget. Ba, they weren't even able to reach a common position. And why didn't they come up with a common position? That's not my opinion because I quote the social partners. Firstly, because there is no transparency, there was no transparency in the work on this budget. They could not judge this because the works were illegible, confidential, non-transparency. Secondly, the records themselves are not transparent to them. According to them, we are dealing with underestimation and on the revenue side, and on the expenditure side, and as far as inflation is concerned. I'm not going to develop this particular element because we talked about it. There's no way to include an anti-covid fund in the spending rule. There are huge flows, as they say, of funds outside the state budget, so how can the budget itself and its credibility be assessed? There is no information about the details of financing tasks through the Polish Development Fund or Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego. This is how the labour fund is defined here, of course a very important fund for the social partners. Honestly, I'm not even gonna comment on this because it's self-confidence. Entrepreneurs negative about the budget, employees negative about the budget, together social partners negative about the budget. These are voices, evaluations and opinions even more important than politicians, because ours can be received subjectively. No, it is citizens, entrepreneurs, employers, social partners that you have prepared a dramatically bad, unbelievable, unclear budget. It will not serve Poland, Poles and Poles. Finally, the funds of the European Union. Poland has been developing since even pre-accession times, but after accession to the European Union we are developing in an improbable way, thanks to the support of the European Union funds. Right now, we have a chance. Of course, it is a new financial perspective for really huge money, EUR 187.3 billion, including 127.5 billion in grants, 27,8 billion in grants and 32 billion in loans. Yeah, okay. Two thirds of this amount will be obtained under the new financial perspective, but one third under the National Reconstruction Plan. The Member States of the European Union have agreed to support and draw together the European Union, including individual Member States, from the pandemic crisis. We can get a huge amount of money for this and we don't have to do anything because it's all set, signed, approved. The authorities of the Polish state are only to be fair, reliable, legal, and not to break the law. [[Timer signal]] If the government behaves this way, if the government carries out its public tasks, these hundreds of billions will enter Poland and will save us in this difficult situation today. Unfortunately, government policy does not guarantee this and threatens to lose this money, or at least not to get all the money. I have heard a signal, Mr. Marshal, and therefore I will not develop these important topics for me. I'm just gonna finish by telling you that I've made three amendments. On a local scale, it is my city, I am asking for more expenditure so that the tasks of tradition and history can be carried out, i.e. the tasks of revitalizing a very valuable steam station in Pile. As regards the region, which is Wielkopolska, I ask for measures for climate, health and the environment, specifically for the development of bike paths. As far as my area of Poland, western Poland, is concerned, together with colleagues from that area, I am asking for financial support from the S11 Highway. Thank you kindly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u248	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Sławomir Rybicki will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs Committee, as part of its competence and competence at its meeting on 4 January, gave its annual opinion on the budget of the Sejm Chancellery, the Senate Chancellery, the President of the Republic of Poland's Chancellery and the National Election Office. I feel it is my duty to tell you about the brief discussion that took place at this meeting, which was concluded by two major amendments and a request for the Sejm. Namely, the committee without any doubt whether any long discussion adopted the budget of the National Election Office. In the debate on the budget of the Sejm Chancellery, we expressed the opinion that the cooperation should not censor each other with these drafts of the budget, and we called for the Sejm to approach the proposal of the Senate Chancellery's budget, which was decided by the committee, which I would like to communicate, increased by PLN 77.5 million, for the care of Poles and Poles abroad. This is the restoration of this historical situation, which has been established for many years, in which it is the Senate competently and in a way which was appreciated by Polonia and Poles in the world, divided funds in a transparent procedure into these areas. And I appeal to the Sejm to respect our autonomy and this decision. Our second decision was, after a very long discussion, to give thanks to Senator Mark Borowski for taking on the main burden of this discussion, to cut the budget of the Polish President's Office by PLN 6.4 million in property expenses and the Foreign Office's budget, the new office that the President appointed. This discussion was substantive. And also the questions we have asked, what these reasons have contributed to the fact that the Polish President's Office has increased its budget and the number of posts in an unjustified manner over the past few years, which have not changed... And let me remind you whether or not I will inform you that the President's Office's budget has increased by PLN 45 million over the last six years and an additional thirty-six jobs, which seems simply to increase more than anything, because the competences have not arrived, but rather the pandemic makes the President's activity much less active. And I thank the same budget committee that shared our opinion. I'll tell you more, it increased, let's call it colloquially, cutting the budget of the President's Office to PLN 10 million. I thank the Committee on Budgets because I consider this to be prudent action. And on the occasion, I would also like to make an important amendment, which I make every year, and this is the amendment that the government is required to implement its declarations. Namely, it is an extremely important road from the point of view of development of Pomerania and Poland, which would connect the port in Gdynia with the network of national roads and the network of Polish motorways. The port in Gdynia, which is to be an installation port for a great project, such as offshore wind farms, the port which plans to expand, is basically cut off from roads and motorways. And every year, the government declares that it will settle this matter, that it will find funds and start investing. In 2020 Prime Minister Morawiecki personally appeared in the area through which the Red Way was to be carried out and promised that we would launch this important investment immediately. Then nothing new happened in this case, except that this road was not included in the plan of the Government's National Road Construction Programme by 2030. So, in order to mobilise and remind you of your commitment, I will make an amendment in order to find the amount of PLN 22 million for the project work of the Red Way in Gdynia, which is extremely important for development not only of Pomerania, but of Poland as a whole. And that's where I'm gonna end my speech. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u250	Thank you, Senator. Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski will speak. It's remote, isn't it?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u251	Yes. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am the tenth person to take part in the debate, therefore it is time for some résumé, especially since I do not want to repeat some of the arguments that were put forward during the discussion. I will take a summary of this budget, looking at what it should be and what it is. Firstly, I believe that the budget law has ceased to play the role of the State's financial plan. It is rather a propaganda document today, and it is of poor quality. Secondly, it is based on fictional assumptions, which means it will be changed within a year. Thirdly, it is anachronistic, especially when we look at civilization challenges, including climate challenges. Fourthly, it is non-transparent, incomplete and devoid of proper control components. Fifthly, it deepens the process of putting huge resources outside, into various government agencies, and it is not just about spending. What I'd like to point out But also commitments. It kills, instead of releasing the energy of Poles, simply discourages the taking up of work, e.g. on an extra degree, or just to make better money. Complicates the tax system And as we recall, this system was supposed to be simplified as announced. But most importantly, After eight, it means underestimating many needs, often in key areas. These are fields such as science, such as higher education, such as local self-government units, such as education, investment in energy, environmental protection, the remuneration of many groups operating in the budgetary sphere or, for example. in agriculture itself. On the other hand, I would like to stress that also during the meeting of my committee, the high representatives of the government confirmed these shortcomings, recognising that they will be supplemented in one way or another during the year, starting from February, which, in my opinion, is something unprecedented. I will especially ask for one group, because when I listened to Mr Kleina... It was stated that at the meeting of the Scientific and Education Committees, the Scientific Committee, Education and Sports, no comments were made on the budget, and I would like to stress that I made such a comment personally. It concerned, above all, the situation of the youngest researchers and, of course, very important, the science itself, in particular research. I've counted with the experts that the shortage here is eight billion. In some sense, this information was confirmed by one of the government representatives. The budget is undoubtedly dragging on cruelly rather than ahead of time and anticipate the challenges. It should be borne in mind that the development forecasts for 2023 and 2024 are quite concrete and the budget for 2022 should already respond or at least partially announce them. I would add that in three years the so-called. The government's spending havens according to experts will exceed PLN 400 billion, which means that there is a second budget. What are these paradises? I'll tell you not to be literal. This is, of course, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego, about 100 billion in bonds planned this year, from which almost all investments are to be financed. This is the Polish Development Fund, the Justice Fund, the Government Local Investment Fund, the Governmental Polish Governance Fund: Strategic Investment Programme etc., etc. Are there others? Perhaps they are, but because the budget is getting less transparent, we can talk less about it. In general, we are dealing with a law which allows us to conclude that the management of public finances will be partly speculative in nature without tenders, discretionaryly, politically, without competitions, with numerous annexes which we have already seen in 2020 in 2021. This is a budget with assumptions and one that punishes those who work extremely hard, long and bear the burden of the state's success. I'm gonna skip the pensioners who've already been punished. I hope that the announcements of the president of the Social Security Office will come true and that the retirees will compensate for the loss they have recorded this month. I will add two more things that are very important to me from the point of view of state security. I am pleased that security expenditure, generally speaking, remains within 2% GDP. But I am very concerned about the quality of spending these funds, as well as the effect that should end in improving the security of the state, and in my opinion it is not. Just see what our soldiers are flying on. On well-kept choppers. I refer to the case of this tender which has been cancelled and which could be a source of improvement in our operational capacity. That's what happened, unfortunately, didn't happen. I've got a feeling. And that's where I want to end. We're on steroids, antibiotics and painkillers at the same time. And what does driving like this lead to? We can all expect that. This could be a breach of the over-indebtedness procedure and a return to a situation we were so proud of eight years ago. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u252	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u253	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! As we read in this budget, we know that the truth looks different, and the best example is, of course, inflation, which you have set up for next year at a slightly more than 3%, although today we are already well above 8%. Of course, we would like Poland to look as you have written it in the draft budget in many areas, but everyone who is medium-conscious, keeping in touch with reality knows that it is not. However, as was the case with the Polish Deal, we will try to save this situation. I remind you that in that case the Senate, among others. He introduced for pensioners a relief for the middle class, which you rejected in the Seym, so that, after the confusion that affected a large group of pensioners, you would do the same, only in a questionable legal form. Let us try to save this budget and hope that what comes out of this rescue in the Senate will later be maintained in the Seym. These are the most important amendments that increase spending on health care, increases for teachers, support for RES, i.e. clean energy, these are the most important challenges that we have defined. I would like to remind you of these issues, which involve the most important financial commitments, and of course also of the administrative staff, the courts, the prosecutors, the support of farmers, child psychiatry, in vitro programmes. But there are more monsters in different areas. Let me tell you about these amendments that I tabled with Senator Artur Dunin for this project and which your infrastructure monsters, your shortcomings in this project, are trying to correct somehow. We have an investment that you are making: the western ring road of Łódź, so-called. the road S14 is extremely necessary, tightening the highway ring around Łódź. But what is lacking in this project and in the investment plans that the government has prepared? In this project you plan to complete the S14 expressway, the first section of this road, to the node in Lublin and to the node of the Tephiles, to be completed in mid 2022, and the last section By the end of 2023. But again, ladies and gentlemen, it is that there will be a highway, but the trouble is that there will be no exits. Theophiles are one of the largest Łódź settlements, with tens of thousands of inhabitants living there, and you do not foresee a full-size exit from the western ring road of Łódź, from the S14 expressway, and entry to it. Have you forgotten? Yeah, well, it's a tough one. Fortunately, there is already a Senate amendment on this issue that we have tabled. Unfortunately, such infrastructure monsters are not only in the western part of Łódź. In this regard, we are proposing amendments concerning the construction of the junctions Zgierz and Łódź North, the node of the Tejophile and the reconstruction of Marathon Street. But they're also on the east side. On the other hand, for a long time we have so-called. the eastern bypass of Łódź, but there is a need to connect the urban road system of Łódź to the emerging motorway junction And, of course, we have also tabled appropriate amendments in this respect. It's interesting that even when you're making some investments that are enjoyable, e.g. reconstruction of railway line 14 from Łódź towards Sieradz This does not foresee the consequences of your decisions. You're predicting an increase in traffic after modernization. In fact, it has already taken place on this railway line, today almost 100 trains pass through it. But what? There are collision crossings in Pabianice. You've divided this town into two parts, and you don't know how to get out of it. And you have to build a collisionless crossroad. And, of course, we have also tabled an amendment in this respect. The trouble is, there are so-called senators not everywhere. A democratic majority. As it turns out, it is necessary to save Poland also in those places from which are the Senators of the PiS, because they, turns out, cannot solve the most important problems of the areas they represent. We have, for example. Via Carpatia road and we have Via Baltica road. Today we can cross Via Carpatia. A few days ago, I was driving it from Intel to Lublin. We're gonna drive through Bialystok, and then we're gonna drive through Bialystok. Okay, here's the By Belarus to the port of Klaipeda, which is in Lithuania. Someone's gonna say, "You gotta be kidding yourself by saying something like that, it's ridiculous." No, it's not absurd. This is the consequence of your plans, and in principle the lack of decision to build a link between Via Carpatia and Via Baltica, of which a large part of the Via Baltica route in Poland has already been established or is being implemented. Deep believers still believe that you will complete the Via Baltica route according to the next time shifted by you, by the end of 2023. But even believers have no way of believing that you will connect Via Baltica to Via Carpatia because you do not foresee it at all. No money for that purpose, not even for design work, you didn't write it down. That is why I am proposing an appropriate amendment concerning the construction of the link between Via Blacica and Via Carpatia, together with Senator Kleina and Senator Wcisła. Because it is also a chance that the goods will go to Klaipeda not through Belarus, but to the port of Elbląg, if you seriously take your declarations that the excavation of Vislana is meant to serve anything. If it's meant to be for something, you have to connect these roads. That is why we are proposing such an appropriate amendment in this regard. Finally, I wish you and yourself to be able to implement this budget. If you look at what indicators you're preparing him on, then this faith is exposed to strong challenges. I don't want to say it's a threat. But it doesn't relieve us of our responsibility to at least fight with the biggest absurdities, including the communications system. Because it's not like you're gonna build any stretch of highway or road, cut a ribbon and smile at the camera. These roads are meant to serve someone. They're supposed to serve the citizens. If you forget about nodes, exits, road links, then the consequence is that on these roads only the limousines of the government between Warsaw and individual cities, which the government delegation wants to reach. And these roads are to serve the inhabitants who lived there and hoped that their problems would be solved in this way. That is why we are submitting these amendments. We also appeal to the PiS senators And in a special way this appeal is addressed to senators from Podlasie I want these amendments to be supported. I know that you will then be able to go back with your heads up to your constituency and say, "We don't make fun of citizens, because if we build roads, we make them not for government limousines, and for citizens who want these roads, they have to and need to drive." Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u254	Thank you very much, Senator. At this point, I'm announcing a break until 6:30 p.m. [[Adjournment from 17 minutes 23 to 18 minutes 34]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u255	I'm reopening the session. We are returning to the first item on the agenda: the Budget Law for 2022. Let's get back to the discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Filip Libicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u256	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! With regard to this broad topic, which the Senate Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has dealt with in connection with the budget, I would like to focus briefly on three themes. The first thread concerns the amendment that I tabled with the vice-president of our committee, Senator Magdalena Kochan, which concerns salaries in the State Labour Inspection. This is a rather surprising situation, because once in a row the only institution whose budget we are discussing at the meeting of our committee raises reservations about the parliamentary majority, even though its management has been, so to speak, filled by those who form the parliamentary majority, as regards the fact that funds for salaries in the State Labour Inspection are being cut in the course of the Parliament's work. Therefore, we already have one year in a row, at least another year, if not the third, I do not remember exactly at the moment, in agreement with the State Labour Inspection and at its request we propose an amendment on the restoration of the original salary fund of PLN 10 million, i.e. This amount that we report in the amendment is PLN 10 million 800 thousand. This case is surprising. It would be worth asking why this happens every year. That's line one. Line two. I would like to draw attention here to the Social Insurance Institution. The fact is that from year to year, the Social Insurance Institution is burdened with further tasks. This year, the payment of the benefit of 500+ from local governments was transferred there, and now the Social Insurance Institution is taking care of it. The Social Insurance Institution also pays 300+, supports a tourist voucher, supports all possible crisis shields. And it happens that you add up jobs, and you don't actually increase employment. Now there are electricity costs, like everyone else since the beginning of the year, to raise the lowest wage. I think this is an important element that emerged during the discussion at our committee meeting. On behalf of those who have spoken, I would like to express my appreciation to the employees of the Social Insurance Institution for being able to cope under these difficult conditions. They in the budget materials that we had made available show that they are surprised to add these new tasks from day to day and in principle must adapt to their operation. Therefore, on behalf of the family committee, reflecting what was happening during the committee's meeting, I would like to express my appreciation to the employees and management of the Social Security Office for being able to cope with this difficult situation that I described. This is thread two. And finally, thread three, last, last, last, this is a matter, in my opinion, absolutely curial. It's about the Demographic Reserve Fund. I will remind you that it was and is a fund that was supposed to serve us for the hardest time, in a situation where we will not tighten the pension system due to demographic collapse. It is now that the Demographic Reserve Fund lends to the Solidarity Fund, and from the Solidarity Fund, which is worth recalling, first of all... Prime Minister Morawiecki came here near to the strikers and told strikers parents and people with disabilities that it would be a fund for their special needs. Now this fund borrows from the Demographic Reserve Fund to then pay out of the Solidarity Fund the thirteenth and fourteenth pensions. It's hard to describe it differently than knowingly eating your own tail for political reasons. These three threads I allow myself here... I felt obliged to present these three themes at the meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy. Once again, I ask the High House that this amendment, which I tabled with the President, concerning the increase of salaries in the State Labour Inspection, should be voted in favour of this amendment, so to speak, and that this amendment with a positive opinion may leave the High Senate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u257	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u258	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would also like to refer to a few threads that were discussed during the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs and a few areas relevant to the functioning of the State. I'm gonna start with things that are related to water management. As we know, for several years in Poland, as a result of the reform carried out by the government of PiS, the State Water Farm of Poland operates and it manages all the issues that are related to water management. Unfortunately, this is another year, in which the financial plan of the State Waters Farm of Poland predicts a loss of business at the very beginning of PLN 612 million, with revenues at the level of all the funds that will remain available, 1 billion 134 million. This clearly indicates that, in fact, this company will only have money to pay the salary, and that it will not have any money to maintain the hydrotechnical infrastructure, the flood-proof infrastructure, the infrastructure that protects you from drought. Today I asked the Minister what were the losses of drought or floods. They reach billions of zlotys, not those 600 million zlotys, and you are not able to provide in the budget money for proper maintenance of flood floods or for the construction of new landslides. So often criticized by representatives of the PiS, the government of the Platform was modernising annually, building about 300 km of shafts, flood flooding. To my question to the minister responsible, I heard that in 2022 it would be 18,5 km. These figures show that even in this part of the budget does not deserve support. This is clearly an outrageous indicator indicating that the PiS government is simply ruining water management. The only projects he's carrying out are those he's been given by the Civic Platform government, and I'm proud to say. After me. Because these are projects for which I received funds from EU funds or from a loan that I negotiated with the World Bank. But really there are interesting investments in expenditure of Polish Vodka, I will read about some of them to my friends from PiS. Mr. Senator, it's worth hearing what the money's for. Comprehensive modernization of 2 holiday houses in Bukovice This is the investment carried out by the Polish Waters. Or perform modernization in the building guest rooms in Porzebka, ul. Sadowa 17, or modernization of the boiler room in guest rooms in Chernichów. I could name dozens of those. They're all in the budget. There is money for guest rooms for some Pisiewicz, and there is no money for beatings, no money for flood protection, no money for protection against drought. That's the budget. Shame. Shame. I don't even want to use my emotions in particular anymore, because every healthy-thinking person after reading such data should be ashamed and not support this government. And it's in the budget, and everyone can read, so they'll read. In another part That's what I asked the Minister today... At the next point we will talk about subsidies to working mines. In the information about the draft budget in section 48 of the Polish economy, there is no mention of the fact that PLN 6.6 billion you want... 600 million zlotys missing from the ongoing maintenance of flood infrastructure Not for the construction of something new, but for the ongoing maintenance, so that this infrastructure will not be decapitalised And here you want to pump PLN 6.6 billion into de facto 3 coal companies and you want to do it actually outside the state budget. It's against the law. It's just breaking the law. Minister, you will hear this now: this requires notification. You need to know that. Even as a bill, this bill, which will be in the Senate in a moment, will be discussed in a manner contrary to the Sejm's Rules of Procedure, she should never be here. If you, without notification, transfer your tax bonds, you'll break the law, you'll be held responsible one day, you and your co-workers. You must know this because the Public Finance Act clearly indicates when, how public money can be held. By handing over bonds, i.e. de facto public money, which the state budget will pay The state, we, as taxpayers, will pay off We will also function in this dimension. And since she doesn't have a notification, and the government doesn't start notifying this area until the end of January, and she's gonna get a decision in a year's time, within 12 months... The decision will be negative because the notification in this case is only possible when closing the mining volumes. From what the Minister of State Assets has told the committee, it is quite clear that there are no reductions in mining capacity in this area, and therefore there is no chance of obtaining a positive notification under European law. It will end as with the shipyards and the aid will be granted, and then these companies will have to repay this aid, they will have nothing to do with it, so they will simply go bankrupt overnight. But you're gonna be gone and you're gonna be saying that they owe it to those who have to carry out this bad restructuring process. 'Cause that's what it's gonna look like. Anyone who has any knowledge of this case knows that. And, attention, the beginning of this fall began with Minister Tobiszowski, because then the employment in coal companies was increased and, I emphasize, the extraction was reduced, the extraction was reduced. I don't know if you know this, but I think it's coming out today... In 2015, it was 64 t per miner per year, and today how much? 54 t, i.e. 10 t less and employment has been increased. But we're talking about the budget, so I want to make it clear... Sixty-six billion this year. There's no money written down. You want to hand over the bonds. This is against the law. You're gonna break the Public Finance Act, you're gonna violate the notification rules, and you're gonna be held responsible because the law doesn't allow that. I was asking about the revenue from the sale of emission allowances. Okay, luckily the Senate is watching, these amendments have appeared here. I am glad that we will have significantly higher revenues from the sale of emission allowances, because they go to the entire budget of the Polish state. And I'm glad that they're destined for renewable energy, because it's the future, not coal, it's RES. This is the future, and we're not gonna run away from that either. I hear about this mythical energy transformation fund. Let's hope it's not like the low-carbon transport fund, where a few billion have been raised, and over the years, actually, gold has not been spent on low-carbon transport, but on the maintenance of civil servants. Eventually, maybe something will move there. Another issue is related to the Clean Air programme. Whatever I turn on the radio, whatever station, I hear an ad: Poles, benefit from the help, from the support of the Clean Air program. Okay, I'll check it out. 103 billion in 10 years, since 2018, the draft budget for 2022 has been spent in real terms 3 billion PLN. I'm checking how much will be allocated for this in 2022. From the state budget, 0. There will be money only in part of the National Fund for Environmental Protection and Water Management, and in this priority programme it is stated that you will allocate 1 billion 948 million 320 thousand. Whatever it is, 103 billion for 10 years, I'll repeat, it's at least 10 billion a year. One billion 900 million has nothing to do with this 10 billion. You spend more on advertising campaigns, propaganda, pretending to be doing something than real support in the clean air area. I would like to add that all reports that indicate the quality of life in Poland clearly speak about this... [[Timer signal]] ...that in Poland, because of poor air quality, 60 to 100,000 citizens die, yes, from 60 to 100,000 citizens, and you can only afford to drink. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u259	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Jan Maria Jackowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u260	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In fact, it can be said that every year we have a day when we are discussing the budget law for the following year, and the argument that appears in such discussions is quite similar. Parliamentarians representing the camp, the political background of the government defends the budget, the opposition criticizes the budget, draws attention to various points. And in this respect, this year's budget debate in principle, one can say, does not deviate from this scheme. However, we have a completely different socio-economic situation in Poland and the context in which the budget, i.e. the most important law that Parliament processes once a year, will function. I am thinking here of the COVID pandemic, which has undoubtedly had a very important impact on social, economic, cultural and political life over the past years, still has and will unfortunately have I also think of macro- and micro-economic factors, including inflation, which is widely perceived by the public as expensive. This is a phenomenon which unfortunately is spreading, a phenomenon whose effects are not fully understood by all citizens. And how are these issues perceived by the budget law? Well, the budget law from a purely mathematical and statistical point of view, following the adoption of these assumptions, which I am about to mention, is basically overworked, said Mr Skuz that this is the second budget for which he is responsible within the government, in accordance with the rules that usually apply to the budget law. What is the problem is that a lot of the functions that the State actually financed have been taken out of the budget, because the entire anti-covid shield or almost the whole, whether a large part of the anti-covid shield or other activities are financed by means of formally non-budget funds, so we do not have these issues in principle in the budget law. As for the indicators, Mr Skuz himself admitted that this level of inflation of 3.3%, if I remember correctly, provided for in the draft budget for 2022, is such an assumption, I would say theoretically, because some indicator must be accepted in the budget. However, neither the Minister nor the Government have any illusions that I regret to stress: unfortunately, inflation in Poland... All indications are that it will be higher on an annual basis than this ratio of 3.3%. Of course, you can argue, there are different opinions about this, but in principle it will be higher. The Minister also mentioned in his statement that the budget is prudent, that it is to be expected that the revenue and revenue side of the state budget will be higher than that included in the project. As the Minister has said, this will be measured by a 10-, maybe an 11-digit figure. And here it would be worth paying attention to one thing. Namely, to some point, the increase in inflation from a purely mathematical and budgetary point of view is a factor that increases revenue to the budget, assuming, of course, that we remain at the same rates of VAT, excise duty and taxes as in previous years. From this point of view, of course, there will be more of these measures. However, I believe that inflation will be an important problem in 2022, but not just in terms of increasing the cost of living. I mean a basket of essentials to feed, some goods that will be needed. No, this will primarily concern the maintenance of real estate and the payment of this basic good, which is the dwelling. High Izbo, I think that unfortunately the cost of living will be very high. I know the situation of communities in which the fee for the owner of the studio in autumn of this year was 340 PLN for 22 m2 - I am talking about the fee with the advance on heating, about the fee that the owner paid to the community At the moment, the increase reaches more than 500 PLN. Of course, the scale of these increases depends on the area of the dwelling. And this is, ladies and gentlemen, please, a huge problem, because these are charges that you cannot escape. The bills just come in and you have to pay them, because if you don't, then it's a recovery procedure, with all the consequences. National Bank of Poland increases interest rates. And it's a good thing he's increasing it, and I think it's okay to do it, but that also means an increase in the criminal interest that will be charged if someone doesn't pay the fees they have to pay. And in my opinion, I hope that I'm wrong, sooner or later the pressure will start to introduce special housing allowances for people who are in a difficult material situation that are unable to maintain, pay for these apartments, those premises that occupy. Unfortunately, the pressure on such additives or such solutions is not saying what exactly these solutions are going to be, in my opinion, very large. I think that the government, like many environments, does not appreciate the serious challenge of maintaining real estate in times of inflation. With rising electricity prices, with what's happening to the gas, heating... I got a signal yesterday from the housing community, where there are 12 locations. This is a small community, not small in the statutory sense, but small, because the total area of these premises is 670 m2. The gas charges in November and December were at the level of PLN 3.4 thousand, and at the moment the invoice came at 11.5 thousand. And it's not like it's a record... And consumption is at about the same level as in cubic meters. Imagine this: 11,000, which is an average per unit of 1 thousand PLN per month for heating itself during the winter period. And where's the rest of the ingredients that translate into housing? That's the problem we're gonna be facing this year, in my opinion. And that is why, when I am in the position of the government, I would already consider how to relieve these citizens, these Poles, those people who will actually be in a very difficult situation in this respect. This is the scale of growth. is absolutely disproportionate to inflation. Pay attention to that. These examples I've been giving... It's not like it's 10%. Spent or by 8.8% , as at the moment is inflation for December forecast by the CUS. So it's a huge challenge. In conclusion, I would like to express my conviction that this bill is in a certain sense a historical document. I'm gonna take that chance. And we will be referring to it because we will probably still be meeting with Minister Skuza on the occasion of the amendment. What direction is this going to go? I think that even the government is not able to predict all the factors that will decide this right now, but it will certainly be a difficult year in this respect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u261	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Alexander Swede.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u262	Dear Minister, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Looking at the budget law for 2022 and comparing it to the previous ones, we see that since the beginning of the rule of law and justice, among others. thanks to an effective sealing policy, budget revenues are steadily increasing, so that the government can implement all the demands and promises that we have made to the Poles in our programme. The budget for 2022 plans that the revenue of the state budget will be PLN 491.9 billion. This is about PLN 202.8 billion more than in 2015. The budget is planned to be another impulse to the development of the Polish economy. We still feel the effects of the pandemic, but the Polish economy is slowly returning to the path of growth. The budgetary responsibility of the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki combines with the implementation of ambitious social programmes, which strengthen inter alia. Polish families, seniors, employees and entrepreneurs. Programs such as Family 500+, Good start or 13th pension are just some of them. These schemes would not have been possible without effective measures to seal the tax system and increasing tax revenues. The objective is simple: the budget for 2022 the government wants to continue its current policy, including the new elements that Polish Load gives. That's, among other things. historical tax reduction for almost 18 million Poles or family care capital, which will further strengthen Polish families. A positive opinion on the budget was delivered, as was the majority of the committee, by the Senate Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union, in which I have the honour to take part. We considered the Budget Act for 2022 in the relevant parts of the Commission's scope of action, i.e. in part 23 of the European Union's membership of the Republic of Poland, 45 of the European Union foreign affairs, 83 of the European Union's reserves, 84 of the European Union's own resources, as well as the financial plans of the Central European Institute, the Eastern Studies Centre. Mark Karpia, Polish Institute of International Affairs, Western Institute Zygmunt Wojciechowski, Institute of Polish-Hungarian Cooperation. Wenceslas Felczak. After presenting budgetary assumptions in these areas by Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Paweł Jabłoński and other government representatives at the committee's meeting, we can see that almost everywhere we have an increase in revenue, which will certainly translate into more effective opportunities to carry out the assigned tasks. In conclusion, I will say that in the budget for 2022, more resources will go to almost all areas of action of our country, including among others. to an important health system. There will also be social programmes, defence, agriculture and education and investment in transport, culture and the protection of national heritage. The project also provides for an increase in the remuneration fund for public workers in the budgetary sphere. Of course, there will always be a lot of need, but in my opinion the budget for 2022 prepared by the Government of Law and Justice is a good and responsible budget at a time when the world is facing great problems, crises: energy, climate, pandemic and inflation. I fully support this proposal and I would like to thank the Government for the good preparation of the budget for 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u263	Thank you, Senator. And please take the floor of Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u264	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! We are slowly ending the debate on this year's budget. I listened to the speeches of both the rapporteurs and the Minister and then the debate. There have been a lot of threads, because in fact the budget is a document that, by providing funding, determines how all the functions in our country will be carried out. But there have also been a lot of demagogical statements and a lot of such amendments, which, apart from demagogy, apart from being publicized, are completely unrealistic. I'm gonna try to put a few of these brightest points together, and then I'm gonna put it together. The first point is those amendments which were tabled at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and discussed in very detail by Mr Kleina. The feature of all these amendments Probably the right ones, because everyone wants more money for health care, more money for teachers, more money for the army, for the service... No one's gonna say he's fully satisfied. But the budget is also a profitable issue. And colleagues from the Senate majority For the time being, the majority in the committee, but probably also in the Senate. They have so freely increased the revenue of the state budget: there will be more income from CIT, there will be more revenue from... and we will distribute these funds. They're probably aware that no government and no majority in the Sejm is behind the government. The budget is the document that can only be presented by the government They can't agree to this budget collapse. 'Cause if we're not talking about some kind of change of 100, 200, 300 million zlotys, I think such corrections would be possible in this budget. But what we're talking about is the type of change: let's increase the budget by 20 billion in one position, and in the other by 10 billion, we're talking about very important reshufflings in this budget, which are now completely impossible to implement at this stage. And I think who would, but even Senator Marek Borowski, who was once the finance minister of the left government, wouldn't want this budget to be so demolished in the Senate, and what the majority of the senate, probably with the participation of Senator Borowski, would try to do tomorrow in the votes. That's the first line. Second line. Here I will return, ladies and gentlemen, to the small thing, but because it aroused a lot of emotions, I also had to react to various things, namely to the amendment, which could be said, is irrelevant from the point of view of the state budget, 5 million PLN on the phone of trust. Why have we raised this issue at all? I first raised this at the meeting of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, today also in the debate, in questions to Mr Grzegorz Bierecki, where they tried to tell us that we did not want a call of trust. But we wanted to show one thing: that the authors of this amendment completely do not know why they do it at all. Totally. President Kleina, who needs to be given back to him, honestly at the meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance, said that in general he still needs to think about it, and only after this reflection, in the deliberations, will he know what the call is about. Today we found out that, well, generally you have to help your children, that you could use such a phone call from the Ministry of Education and Science. Well, ladies and gentlemen, since you are already making such an amendment, noble, etc., and you want some infoline there, because, as I understand it, it was more about some infoline, I would like to inform you that such a helpline is working with the Ombudsman of the rights of the child, in various areas, psychological, life. And this is the helpline that was created by the cooperation and co-financing of the Ministry of Education and Science and the Ministry of Health. I can even give you the number because maybe someone... 0 800 12 12 12. It is worth recommending this helpline, because perhaps there are actually children who need it. And it would be good if we advertised this hotline. So, ladies and gentlemen, a small thing, but it shows that, well, there are amendments that may not be worth making, and as it happens, you need to know what goal you want to achieve. Today, a great many so-called ones have been tabled in the debate. Regional amendments: here you have to give to the museum, here to the road, here to the hospital, here for other important local tasks. But, ladies and gentlemen, it is precisely this mocked by some of Poland that the Order responds to these needs through the Strategic Investment Programme. One call has already ended, now, as if you didn't know the senators or senators, there is another call, for the amount of 20 billion PLN. And it is from this recruitment, which may be used by local governments, powiats, voivodships... There is money, there is money guaranteed by the government of Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki for precisely those tasks which you are trying to report today as part of regional amendments. It is not that from the point of view of the state budget we will add PLN 2 million or PLN 5 million to the necessary, let's assume a museum. Because if the government that you support, which is close to those problems that know these needs... He simply acts through BGK to the Strategic Investment Programme and has the opportunity to receive funds. I think it's 99% of this call. local governments have received funds, smaller or larger. Co-financing between 80 and 95%. Now we're in the middle of another call. The Prime Minister has announced that there will be another tranche of money in a few months. So these regional amendments... I understand that if there were no Polish Deal, if there was no Strategic Investment Programme, it might be worth supporting some of them. But we just did it through the Strategic Investment Programme, the implementation of these tasks. And I must say that when I listen to such demagogical statements as that of Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, who spoke about the roads that we build so that only government limousines can drive, not the roads for people... Well, how do you call it different than the extreme demagogy and extreme populism? We are building these roads, Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, for Poles and Poles to drive. And those express roads, and the highways, and the renovations that go through the road fund, the Government Road Development Fund, the voivodships... Not for those limos, as you say. Perhaps there's something wrong with the senator here. Unless it's just such a dull political demagogy in the worst way. Ladies and gentlemen, and last thought. I'm looking at my watch... There's been a lot of talk about inflation. I'm not gonna say, of course... This inflation has many reasons. A little bit about this, so analytically, you spoke to President Grzegorz Bierecki. We are aware that this inflation factor is actually hitting the whole of Europe, but not only. Record inflation is also in the United States. In practically every country of the European Union, these inflation expectations are exceeded. Well, climate policy, rising prices of energy raw materials, Putin's gas policy, etc., etc. Ladies and gentlemen, inflation is, and the rulers are required to be responsible and to respond. And that's how we respond, for example, to a reduction in VAT, to a reduction in excise duties on fuel, to mitigate the effects of... And for the poorest, there's a cover-up. In this budget, money is guaranteed within 6 billion to mitigate the effects of inflation. We are not looking at this inflation, the inflation that we do not have, the inflation that has caused external factors. We really have no influence on Vladimir Putin, whether he's going to sell gas to Europe or not to sell gas to Europe... [[Timer signal]] We have no influence on Mrs von der Leyen, Mr Tusk's colleague from the IPP, or some stunned climate policy, which is lethal for the Polish economy, will be implemented or not. But we can help and implement this aid to Polish citizens as much as the rules allow. Unfortunately, Mr Senator Szejnfeld, you know this very well, we are not able to do it today, because this European Union directive of 2009 is in force, to provide support for these gas prices, because it is against EU law. And all those people who say... Such a messenger of Zofia Czernow from Jelenia Góra... [[Mr. Senator, thank you very much...]] ...doing a press conference and saying how bad it is for entrepreneurs... Yes, we are unable to compensate Polish entrepreneurs today... Now, Mr. Marshal, I'm almost done for 30 seconds. But we are able to compensate Polish citizens, individuals and so-called. Sensitive recipients... In a moment, tomorrow the bill will be urgent in the Seym. Well, I don't know when in the Senate. It may be necessary to convene an additional Senate meeting to make it known. But in the budget we have funds for individuals, for the poorest, so that these increases in energy prices minimize. Mr. Marshal, thank you for this extension for a minute. This is a budget that guarantees that all the most important functions of the state and aid to the poorest in these difficult times will be carried out in relation to the global inflation crisis that is in Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u265	Thank you very much. Senator Marek Plura, please. Remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u266	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Can you hear me? [[I can hear you.]] Thank you kindly. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would not like to refer to specific amendments, more to the entire budget law that we are proceeding, but rather to what I think is missing. I mean real support for institutions that provide the necessary assistance for completely independent people 24/7 or at least 24 hours a day. Well, these institutions, or actually their wards, feel the most deeply what affects each of us, that is, the huge increase in the prices of the most daily items of food, fuel, and a huge increase in wages, maybe for the workers, but for these institutions this is a very significant position in their annual budget. And finally, what came as a financial tsunami was a huge wave of rising prices of energy carriers, above all gas. Because these facilities are treated just like companies, like companies, they will pay a few hundred percent more for gas than last year. A house of social assistance, a house of children, a care and medical establishment, a different type of plant, a 24-hour aid facility, and even such a private company is not an undertaking that brings some important, real profit. As profit-oriented companies, they bear additional costs. I am talking about institutions such as environmental self-help homes, occupational therapy workshops and many, many other institutions that are actually maintained exclusively by grants and various types of subsidies. In general, these grants come from local budgets. And it is generally in local governments as bodies operating these institutions or in a different sense responsible for them, but also legally obliged to maintain custody of them, that this dramatically difficult situation is addressed. However, these self-governments have been significantly depleted since 1 January. As much as the costs of running such facilities have increased significantly. The new tax system, sometimes referred to as governance, sometimes a disorder, has caused these local governments to significantly deplete in the context of influences on their budgets. The situation is really difficult, even dramatic. What can the local government do now? He can actually just wonder if he can turn off the lighting on the streets, turn it off at the help home, or patch a hole in the sidewalk, or if he can patch a hole in the budget of a child's home. The fact that we heard Mr Morawiecki today about the planned reductions in VAT on gas, fuel, electricity, food gives us some hope for the future. Hopefully not too far away. But I was not able to understand why the Prime Minister did not, during his speech, include these solutions of social assistance houses or other institutions where you simply live, although they are not strictly meaningful apartments. There's roommates out there, not tenants. I do not know why such facilities are automatically not covered by solutions that protect from the most dramatic increase in prices of residents of ordinary apartments. I hope that a few days and several days will also protect residents of housing communities or apartments owned by de facto local governments, municipalities and cities. That can be done. I therefore hopefully call on my fellow Members in the Sejm to complete this government project. I hope, like Senator Frost, that we will meet in the debate on these new solutions sooner than the planned deadline. May it not be necessary to supplement them with support for the institutions I am talking about. It's not just that social services houses, children's homes, or accommodations stop paying for gas like factories. It is about long-term aid and so that we can see it also in the state budget, in the budgets of municipalities, powiats and local governments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u267	Thank you very much. And I would like the floor of Senator Kazimierz Kleina.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u268	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We are slowly ending the debate on the budget for 2022, in my opinion, as I mentioned in my report as a representative of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the most important document adopted during the year, because this is the document on which the government and the various state institutions should function throughout the year. So they should know how to spend money, how to collect it, so that we have a sense of stability and security of life in our homeland. It seemed to me that this moment, when we were finishing the debate on the Budget Law for 2022, had passed the procedure in the Sejm, and we ended it here by preparing some amendments which would be accepted or rejected by the Sejm. This is a moment when we can really think about the important condition of our country and economy. And today in Poland we are experiencing serious problems. We can see it. There are problems with inflation, as well as with a pandemic that we cannot fully control. However, we should especially those who rule, who have the power to make decisions, also consider how to deal with these problems that affect our economy. Unfortunately, the budget for 2022 does not respond to these fundamental problems in the economy and in social life, because it is a budget that is still focused on the distribution of money, not on how to rationalize these expenditures, which are not about the condition of society, about people's lives, and which are often expenditures showing the power of the state, but on clay legs. That's very bad. It seems that this is the time when we should be thinking about how to genuinely address inflation problems, and at this point it should be a reflection on this issue. You are constantly referring to various things from the past, e.g. To the fact that you've dealt with the VAT gap, etc. Well, for fairness, it should always be recalled that the basic documents concerning VAT sealing, e.g. a single control file was adopted during the rule of the Civic Platform and the PSL. It is also worth reminding each time that the state as a PiS voted against this law. You voted against these initiatives when we sealed the VAT issue, reversed VAT, etc., etc. After you took over the government, we were always on the side of the government in all these matters. This is what we did when we thought VAT sealing was a cross-party issue. Of course you have... You are accusing us that we are proposing amendments with large expenses, in the order of 20, 10 or 6 billion PLN. We propose such amendments, it's true. But why do we make such adjustments? Of course, they're important. No one's denying it here. But we report them mainly because there is no real, honest discussion about the state's condition, where there are resources for it. And yet, as I mentioned, a large part of public expenditure, public expenditure, is implemented outside the state budget, in various types of funds. Even the above mentioned Local Initiative Fund, i.e. the grants that the local government receives... Every local government is happy about this, but it would prefer to have more independence in creating the goals for which this money is to be spent, because this is decided by an official in Warsaw who says that we can finance this thing and we cannot finance it. But that's another matter. It's just that these funds don't come directly from the budget. They come from funds that are outside the budget, so beyond public, parliamentary control. In any case, we do not know to what extent these measures contribute to reducing inflation. Or are they causing it to increase this inflation? We are in favour of spending such funds to be financed by various types of initiatives. Most of our applications have been submitted by the applicants' senators I say most of them, because I do not know all of them, but as for the large part, the senators here asked whether one way or another the amendment could be prepared is about funds that come from budget resources, not from out-of-budget funds, not created ones. So I think it's... but of course it's like looking at the state budget in a different way. It seems to me that there is also a need to reflect on those big projects that you are trying to implement, and which are de facto still projects on paper. Reflection would be needed, wondering whether it is worth doing it in such difficult times, especially when it is far from the goal. It goes on for example. It's about this unfortunate airport, isn't it? That's what millions of zlotys go for every year. For what? In fact, to support some group of officials. And such projects... Or that classic thing we're remembering about these unfortunate towers. What do you call them? In Ostrołęka. It was spent physically, directly, about PLN 2 billion, then it will be the disposal of these objects, then the payment for orders that cannot be stopped... It will amount to at least PLN 3 billion, and PLN 3 billion is really huge money. And these 3 billion zlotys also have an impact on inflation. It's true, isn't it? And here they say nothing happened, nobody's responsible, nothing's happening. It's true, isn't it? You can't rule like that. We simply need to consider how we can control such thoughtless expenses. The fact that we have inflation today is, of course, also the result of global problems. We don't say it's not, we know it. But it would be good for the government to consider that much of inflation is also the result of the government's economic policy, waste in various areas of life. For example, we could show countless examples. Well, the number is always calculated, so let me say, a huge number. In any place where the investments were started and stopped, without any reasonableness. Many such examples can be cited. I can call you up, for example. construction of expressway No 6, which is built between Gdynia and Gdansk and Szczecin. All the time, this construction was going to be done, and there was only a fragment, only what was stopped in 2015 when the competition was announced. And what's the price of building a kilometer of this road right now? The Minister doesn't even answer such questions. And remember how you alleged that in Poland during the Civic Platform and PSL we build roads very expensive, that we pay some of the highest prices in Europe for motorways. There was an accusation. And there were allegations about everything one at a time. But this price, which is today for building a kilometer of expressway... Because the highways aren't built now, there's some tiny fragments on the A1 finished, so I don't talk about it anymore. So these prices, as they are today, are simply that in 2015, you would be grabbing your heads if you had the prices to make these investments. Not all problems arise simply because there is inflation, because they are also due to waste, from just any organization, from weak people who are placed in different places. We keep reminding you that in the positions of CEOs of various companies... Well, Gdansk Energa is a classic example of that, because within 5 years, six boards have been changed there, each received a briefing, each after probably a million zlotys. Or more, or less, there was also a change in the companies of the daughters... And no one can control it. Why? E.g. because you have eliminated the Ministry of Treasury, which has supervised better or worse, but uniformly All these companies of the Treasury. So today, every minister has his kingdom, he's gonna put a friend, brother-in-law, grandpa, aunt, a friend there, a neighbor on the street... It doesn't work, it just doesn't work anymore. Or you really want to rule in a responsible way, that is to say, first of all, you want to make sure that really these expenses that come from the state budget, from various companies of the Treasury, are under some kind of control, under such control that it all begins to have arms and legs... Today you are saying: we will take off VAT for a few months. But in a few months, this VAT will be back. So this isn't the way to stop inflation right away. Well, this is the easiest mechanism: we'll take off the VAT, it'll drop by a dozen percent of the fuel price, etc. But this will not lead in the long term to these prices being normal. A photo of VAT is a handshake, but when that hand comes off... [[Timer signal]] If nothing else is done, it will lead to further problems. It seems to me that here we simply need cooperation, also listening to what the opposition says. The actions we propose are often also good, only that you need to want to cooperate. And since you don't want to do it and you want to do it all on your own because you think you're the smartest, then that's the effect we have today, that where he touches, he falls... Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u269	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Marek Borowski will speak for the first time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u270	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo. First, two words to Senator Mroz, who, as usual, referred to my experience and said that as former finance minister, I certainly would not want this to be involved in the budget. Mr. Senator, I'll tell you what. If I were the finance minister in the situation as it is, I would either not agree to such a structured budget and in general to such a financial policy as it is conducted, in which the finance minister responds, has a gesture in relation to less than half of the public finances in Poland, or I would resign. And how do you bring a budget where you say inflation is 3.3%? It's a laugh. in the gym just Of course, there are various kinds of proposals to change that. This budget... it was all talked about, translated left and right. But, ladies and gentlemen, this king is naked. First of all, unreal assumptions. What Senator Bierecki said here about inflation expectations, he referred to Milton Friedman, who said that inflation expectations need to be dulled, because if inflation expectations are expected, then inflation will explode... The central bank's gonna wrap it up, but ours didn't. And Mr. Senator says this is about how we're going to put this real inflation, these seven with something or 8% in the budget. Well, we're gonna raise inflation expectations, and if we give you 3.3%, we're not gonna have inflation expectations. Well, as I can see, Senator Bierecki, although maybe he doesn't know it, is a faithful disciple of this 18th-century British philosopher, George Berkeley. He created such a theory of being watched and found that things exist as far as we can see them, and if we can't see them, we don't know if they exist. So, for example. The table, if I look at it and see it, it is, and if I turn around, it's not clear if it is. Do you know how he ended up? One day in the kitchen, he went back and fell, tripped over the stool because he was convinced that the stool wasn't there, and broke his leg. And that message, so to speak, I am giving to Senator Bierecki, who is not here, to be careful. Same thing about non-budget funds. It's not that they exist because they've always existed, it's that you've ripped them apart to an impossible size. In addition, there was a covidary fund, a few people here spoke about it, to which the Supreme Audit Office has no access. I mean, this is totally paranoid. Unexpired expenditure is a parallel budget. They've always been, like, minimal, but now they're multi-billion-dollar. Finally, those bonds you're handing out to the left and the right, and you're proud of a low deficit. What does that mean? I'm releasing bonds and these bonds, and this is television, and this is college, and this is some company, and so on. Well, it's just that in finance, you guys run like a farm, breaking all the rules, all the rules. You're just making it all opaque. Senator Bierecki spoke about the European Union that inflation is also there, and the European Central Bank does not raise its rates. Well, the average inflation in the European Union is 4.3%, and we are 8%. That's one thing. Secondly, there is very low base inflation. Maybe Senator Bierecki doesn't know that, so I'm telling him. So there's nothing to compare, we're just in a different situation. And this is where you have to act. Investment expenditure. You have placed these expenses completely, and they will determine the development of Poland. It's not the consumption you've been filming for many years. The rate of growth is already falling and it's gonna fall. But the budget... I'd say you trashed public finances, you just trashed them, but this isn't the only area you trashed. And discussing this budget is a great opportunity to recall a few things. Well, you started your governments by ruining the Constitutional Court. You made him a puppet organ, a mockery, an institution completely without authority. I'm sorry to see that. Next thing you know, you're throwing yourself at public media, mostly public television. You turned her into a party tube, into a scumbag against the political opposition. Well, you've been trying to destroy independent media lately. Fortunately, it didn't work out. And by the way, your friend and family Viktor Orbán at one of the international parties was asked how it happened that he held power for so long. He said: there is simply no free media, the media must be supportive. Yes, sir, that's what you wanted to do here. Third, you've destroyed an independent D.A.'s office. You just turned it into an organ used to fight politically. Fourth, there's still an attack on the courts, partly successful. Well, part of it worked, fortunately not yet. You're chasing independent judges, but outside of politics, these courts just work worse. Today, citizens feel it, things go on. This is the result of the great reforms of Mr Ziobra, unfortunately, which are also owned by you. Fifthly, you argued Poland with the European Union. The consequences of this are fatal, not just the financial ones. By the way, if the euro had finally arrived in Poland, it would have been possible to strengthen the rate of gold, and this would have affected the price decrease of all imported goods, including raw materials. Well, you can't do that. You're prisoners of Mr. Ziobra. But there's another thing. Poland has simply lost its importance in the European Union, and it is difficult for us to push through our demands. Sixth, pandemic. This is a difficult issue, but unfortunately one of the highest rates of death is Poland. It's a sign of your helplessness, of your inability. And we know why you're not taking any action. Because you're worried about polling posts. This is the sin of omission that simply burdens you and shows complete lack of responsibility, courage in ruling. Finally, after seven, you are cutting off another pillar of democracy. You cut it and you cut it still. I'm talking about Parliament here, fortunately not the Senate. But what did the Seym become? Well, I think that even the state is sending these words to the Senators of the PiS. You see what's going on there: breaking the rules, breaking the constitution, parody of debate, parody work on laws. It's just some farce of what's going on out there. But that's not enough. The opposition there is limited, exterminated, but that was not enough, we had to use wiretap, we had to use Pegasus, because it was not enough. This is a thing in a democratic country, in a European country, and it will not be left to itself to quietly die. After eight, you can't even prepare a proper tax reform. It's been talked about a lot, and I'm not gonna repeat it all. But this mess is not a child's disease, as some of you say. This is the effect of propaganda of success and willingness to necessarily introduce it early before the election to make it work. We know the effects. [[Timer signal]] By the way, benefits for low-income pensioners I'm almost done, Mr. Marshal. That would amount to about PLN 100, PLN 150, etc., will be eaten not only by inflation but also by the fact that they will no longer be paid 14 pensions. And 14 pensions were just for low-income pensioners. Exactly the 100 zlotys from the 14th pension is almost as much as this one. New Deal will bring it. So here we are dealing with some kind of ordinary fraud, apart from the whole mess, which is probably going to be even bigger. The budget is now kind of a cherry on this cake, although I don't know if it's a cake. In the end, he shows that you've done public finances the way you did. In 2015, you won the election by proclaiming the slogan "Poland in ruins." Then everyone asked what was going on, why was it ruined, etc. However, it turns out that this was not a slogan about the past, but it was an electoral promise, which you as one of the few have succeeded in fulfilling. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u271	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Kwiatkowski will speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u272	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! The senator, whom I will not mention by name, in the context of my speech he said: it is thick propaganda, and we, PiS, are building roads for Poles and Poles. So let's see how you build these roads in practice: whether for residents or just for transit traffic, which was symbolized in my speech by a government limousine. Because as we all know, in Poland almost all ministries, central offices, constitutional bodies are in Warsaw. I was talking about it in context, for example. so-called. the S14 expressway, the western ring road of Łódź, which complements the highway ring around the city. I put it this way that you build roads that are not meant to serve the people, but those who travel the country. This, of course, is also needed. It means transit traffic, not regional and local traffic. Because how do you build these roads? In the case of the S14, you have removed or limited some of the nodes that were designed in the framework of the road-infrastructure design work. Under the leadership of the Platform. Yeah, it's Tusk's fault. Tusk planned exits from the S14 expressway for the inhabitants of Łódź, which then PiS closed or limited. Yes, Tusk's fault that he cared about the inhabitants of Łódź. You don't care about them, I say it sadly. You proposed the Theophile Node. Okay, here's the How? You proposed that you build it in such a way that on the 760-thousandth side of Łódź there would be no entry to the S14 road, that on the side of the tens of thousands of settlements there would be no entry to the highway, but on the side of a small commune which is adjacent to Łódź. Geniuses, geniuses of the Carpathian, as someone malicious would say. Yeah, you're building these roads, but not for the residents, and I'm gonna say it again. I am ashamed because when I talk to the inhabitants of Łódź, I am unable to answer the question of why motorways or expressways are being built, which they cannot reach. More: you have removed the node from the alley of Fibers, which has been planned since forever, a node which is crucial for the interests of the inhabitants not only of Łódź, but also of Zgierz. I'm not saying anything. 'Cause it'd be dumb, fat propaganda. It's about the communication system in Jelenia Góra. I am not expressing how access roads should go there and whether the Krkonoše State Higher Vocational School in Jelenia Góra, which is at 18 Lvivice Street, should have access from right or left, because I do not know it. And I wouldn't have the courage, not having elementary knowledge, to speak about the propaganda and communication system of another city, in which apparently this senator wasn't even there. And if he'd gone there, the people of this town would have taken him out on wheelbarrows after he said that it was so perfect and unpropagandous to build roads that he didn't have access to. It is also interesting for me that two important roads, especially for Eastern Poland, Via Carpatia and Via Baltica, must be requested by the senators from central and northern Poland, not those senators who live there in Podlasie. Yeah, we're the ones who tabled the amendment. I am ashamed that the Senators of Podlasie did not report it, but I hope that they will at least support this amendment. If in the case of S14 we do not make these roads and nodes originally recorded in the projects of the Civic Platform... I didn't talk about it at all in my first speech because I'm not interested in politics. I'm interested in how to solve people's problems. But if the senator wants politics, then yes, PiS should be ashamed to hide. You suggest that you drive to motorway junctions or expressways, as in the case of S14, by two-way streets, which are already blocked today. Is that really what you're proposing to the residents? I will defend the interests of the inhabitants of Łódź and the Łódź voivodship in this room whenever they are rational. And finally, Mr. Senator Antoine de Saint-Exupery in the Little Prince said, "Going straight ahead, you can't go far." Sometimes you have to get to that road, drive on it, and sometimes pull off it. If you go straight, you get to the first corner. [[Timer signal]] You want to fall out on this corner, then fall out, but let us, citizens, stay on the Polish road, which sometimes leads straight, sometimes twists, but always leads us to the goal of the rational interest of the citizens whom we represent in this Chamber. I also represent and represent their interests. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u273	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Frost will speak for five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u274	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! I don't know, Mr. Marshal, if it shouldn't be 15 minutes: 5 minutes to correct Mr. Marshal Borowski's statement, 5 minutes to Senator Kwiatkowski's statement and 5 minutes to my second vote. [[I didn't mention you by name.]] [[That's not gonna happen, Senator.]] Mr. Marshal, you can't correct that much in five minutes, but I'll try, I'll do what I can. Mr. Marshal Borowski spoke of Pegasus, the rule of law, the Court, almost everything, and least of all the budget. This is not the debate, Mr. Marshal. But as far as budget issues are concerned, yes, there were large expenditures from non-budget funds. The main non-budget fund was the covid fund, which saved Polish entrepreneurs. I remember the statements by Marshal Borowski, Senator Szejnfeld, who here had a row that there was not enough support for Polish entrepreneurs. If we had not launched a covid fund outside the state budget, we could not have one of the lowest unemployment rates in the European Union today, or a dynamically developing economy, economic growth, which is, after all, objective in terms of statistics. We have been through COVID thanks to the fact that we have launched huge money through the Polish Development Fund for Polish entrepreneurs. And now that's a charge? We could have just not run the money and had what was in the 1990s for Leszek Balcerowicz. One of the senators not so long ago on Twitter or Facebook, I can't remember, he wrote how much he missed Leszek Balcerowicz. He was the senator of this term. I'm going to apply Senator Kwiatkowski's word equilibrystika and I'm not going to replace it. I do not miss Leszek Balcerowicz and I think that most Poles do not miss Leszek Balcerowicz. If we had not helped Polish entrepreneurs, today we would have an unemployment rate of 10 , not on a level, depending on whether we count Polish methodology or EU, comparative... We are perhaps the third country with the lowest unemployment rate in the European Union. That's one thing. The second point is expenditure that is not extinguished. Mr. Marshal, do you know what expenses are? Seven, eight billion. What is PLN 7 or 8 billion from 2021? Do we want the entrepreneurs... to keep the investments out of the way? will we be able to continue these investments? With spending at 400 billion, these 7 billion or 8 billion... We want to ensure that the investments needed by Polish society can be implemented smoothly. Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. Mr. Senator, of course I won't speak about this or any other convention. I didn't mention it at all in my speech, I didn't say whether there should be such a convention or not in Łódź, because I don't know, I'm not a resident of Łódź. Sometimes I drive through Łódź, driving from Jelenia Góra to Warsaw with beautiful highways, bypasses that are built. And if you're saying today that you're not doing politics, that it's said Tusk's fault, then I'm gonna say one thing. Let this Tusk build this road S14. We had to build this road under the Civic Platform. So you can do all the reunions you want. To design it, cross it out, rust it out, I don't know. So you can take the exits every 100 meters. You should have built it. But we're building these bypasses today. However, today, Mr. Senator, we are building for Łódź, where Mrs. Zdanowska criticizes this government at every turn. How many central investments do we make today, appreciating Łódź, appreciating the inhabitants who live there? I myself, Mr. Senator, will not speak about whether one or the other reunion should be done in this way or not, because I am not a resident and I am not a builder. I'm sure no one designed it maliciously. Those who drive bypasses, those who drive highways, those who drive roads, also S14, are also citizens of the Republic of Poland. Perhaps not inhabitants of Łódź, and perhaps partly also inhabitants of Łódź. It would be worth talking about, Mr. Senator. And while you're saying where the KPSW is, I'm going to say this street is a little bit different. You were wrong about one letter. I'm not gonna... [[Timer signal]] Time's up. It's hard to straighten up so many false information. Mr. Marshal basically said I only had five minutes, so thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u275	Thank you very much to the senator for his basic approach. Indeed, the debate is emotional, but we have to follow certain provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Your name is Senator Kwiatkowski, so I'm gonna have to give him three minutes to correct it. Mr. Senator Borowski, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u276	Mr. Marshal, I'm a little afraid to argue with Senator Mr. Frost because the senator is very nervous. I'm afraid something's gonna happen, but I'm gonna try. It reminds me of how I listen to the senator, how Mr. Senator would argue with me, rather modestly, that you touched me, so to speak, referring to everything I said, it reminds me of such an anecdote about a student who probably studied biology. When he was asked before the exam, how prepared he was, he said he was well prepared, but only from one topic, namely from the snake. And other topics? Someone's asking. I'll be fine, he says. He takes the exam, and the professor says, "Tell me about the elephant." And he says, "Elephant?" Elephant, Professor, this is such a big animal, heavy. The elephant's characteristic feature is his trumpet. And the trumpet, Professor, resembles a snake very much. And the snake... That's where he was talking about the snake. It still went. And you, Mr. Senator, did more or less the same thing. I was talking about 36 of these funds and you blew them to pieces, and you focused on the covid fund. Very good. But what I said about the covid fund was that the Supreme Control Board didn't get in. You're gonna have to do something about it. You are such an apologist to this government and its financial policy that you should go and say that the end, you will not defend this government again if they do not settle this matter so that NIK can go in there and tell the citizens what is going on there. What do you say, e.g.? The Justice Fund in Mr. Ziobra's department? It's a party money box. Mr. Ziobro, the minister from this fund, spends his money absolutely on what he wants, not only on helping victims of crime and post-penitentiary cases, because that's what this fund was called for, but also on what he thinks he's gonna get some benefits, not to mention he gave Pegasus for it. That's what I'm talking about, Mr. Senator, and that's what needs to be done. If there's no such thing as this, I'm not gonna criticize it. When it comes to unexploded expenses, it's not just that... They today, as you say, were 7 billion or 8 billion PLN, but in the past there were no such amounts, they were completely known. And besides, it fits in with all this cheesy financial policy. And the spending rule? It was loosened, right, I voted for it myself, it had to be done. But you're still skipping that spending rule because you're paying off bonds. This is just one of the elements of breaking up public finances. And really, Mr. Senator, I know your interests, you speak on these subjects, and you are very involved. There may be cases where you are right about these polemics, but to be completely credible, you also have to see flaws, mistakes and be able to criticize them. Otherwise, the senator only becomes a jancry, and I don't think that's a role that suits you. Thank you. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Marek Pęk]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u277	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski In corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u278	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Senator Frost, referring to my statement, said it was necessary to build these roads, and it was we who built them, and those who drive, you said to those who drive until I wrote it down. S14, that's what they're testifying to. Mr. Senator, the worst part is that you believe in your own propaganda. No one rides the S14 because you haven't built it yet, it's under construction. And this is the best summary of the arguments you're using.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u279	Senator Frost. I'm guessing in corrigendum mode.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u280	Either the senator doesn't understand me, or he wants to be so mean. I'm aware that the S14 is still being built because you said so yourself. I said it so that you had to build this S14, that's when you'd have done the reunions as you wanted. And you know it very well. And I'm not gonna straighten things out anymore because you'd have to say not three minutes, just 15 minutes, so I'm gonna wave my hand at it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u281	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Klein, second performance, five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u282	Mr. Marshal, in relation to these speeches, where the construction of expressways and highways was mentioned, I want to give you the numbers, I invented the exact numbers. During the Civil Platform and PSL government, 885 km of motorways were built, 1 thousand 207 km of express roads, 1 thousand 350 km of G or GP class roads, i.e. main roads or main roads of accelerated traffic, a total of 3,000 442 km of roads. In the days of the PiS government... It's not the same time, you've still got a year left. Under the PiS regime 178 km of motorways were built Previously there were 885 km; 1 thousand 200 km of express roads; a comparable number; 178 km of G or GP roads during the Platform 1 thousand 350 km. Except that the roads built in 2015 which were returned in late autumn, already during the PiS rule, were counted as if they were built by PiS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u283	Thank you very much. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, Senators Gromko, Błecherz, Godyla, Gorgon-Komor, Morawska-Stanecka, Tyszkiewicz, Kołacz-Leszczyńska... [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please? [[No, no, it's okay.]] ...Komarnicki, Matecka, Czelej and Pęk made their speeches in the discussion for the minutes. Senator Swede gave his speech. [[No, but...]] He did. [[Senator Swede didn't fold?]] No. [[When I gave it, I didn't make it.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] I inform you that the legislative proposals have been submitted in writing by Senators Czarnobaj, Arndt, Wcisła, Małecka-Libera, Szejnfeld, Libicki, Kochan, Bober, Bieda, Świlski, Nealny, Godyla, Kobiak, Lamczyk, Sekuła, Gorgon-Komor, Jazłowiecka, Klich, Bieda with a group of 5 senators, Rotnicka, Kwiatkowski, Dunin, Kleina, Bosacki, Tyszkiewicz, Komarnicki, Czarnobaj, Kochan with a group of 15 senators, Rybicki, Grodzki, Gawłowski, Gromek. [[Mr. Marshal, can I ask you something?]] Yes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u284	There was also a request submitted by Senators Kleina, Wcisła and Kwiatkowski, and I did not hear you replace him.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u285	It wasn't? [[Talking in the O.R.]] Senator Kwiatkowski is, perhaps it has not been grouped. I've been reading protocol. [[I wanted to make sure, because it's an important conclusion about Via Carpatia and Via Baltica.]] Okay, the senator's conclusions are here. [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, no. In a few cases it's just written... [[Grouped.]] There's one name in the record plus a group of senators, and that's why... [[Here are three senators: Moravian-Stanecka, Małecka-Libera...]] [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Necessary...]] [[Yes, it is.]] Yes? Okay, I'll fill in the blanks in a minute. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill under consideration... Oh, I'm sorry. Legislative proposals have been tabled. Does the government representative wish to comment on the proposals, or do they want to take the floor? No. Thank you very much, Minister. As legislative proposals have been made, I ask the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance to respond to the proposals submitted and to prepare a report. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held on the second day of the sitting. The discussion is closed. I don't know. Something's mixed up in this script. [[No, it's different...]] We proceed with the second agenda: amendment of the law on the operation of hard coal mining. The text of the Act is contained in print No 602, and the Commission's reports In prints Nos 602 A and 602 B. I ask the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, Senator Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u286	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I have the honour to present a report by the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs on the Act adopted by the Sejm on 17 December 2021 amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining. The Senate Marshal sent the bill to the committee on 17 December. After considering the Act at its meeting on 4 January 2022, the committee asks the High Senate to adopt the attached draft resolution. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the Act amending the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining: The Senate, after considering the Act on the Act on the Functioning of Coal Mining adopted by the Sejm on 17 December 2021, rejects this Act. In short words, I would like to present to the High House the main reasons which have decided to make such a decision by the committee. First of all, the de facto law is a state aid law, and it is of course a parliamentary project, while the government project is now in the European Commission... It's there or it's not there yet. And this parliamentary project in accordance with the rules of the Sejm should be by the Marshal of the Sejm... I mean, there should be an application for an opinion to the President of the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection and a notification process should be initiated. This procedure was not preserved by the Marshal of the Sejm. This is the first and basic reason why, in general, this law should not be passed at all in the Seym, nor should it be in the Senate. Furthermore, this law is inconsistent internally, because on the one hand, its purpose is to lay down rules for support for public capacity reduction, mainly in the Silesian mines, and on the other hand, there is not a single word in this law on the reduction of these capacities. We at the committee meeting pointed out that in the materials that were sent to us by the Minister, the tables that were attached and which were supposed to indicate on the one hand the amounts of support in each year by 2031 and, on the other hand, the limitation of mining capacity were inconsistent as regards the name. This bill only talks about a reduction in extraction, for which the state budget, and in fact it's not even a budget, because this funding is to be made a little outside the budget. Once again from tax papers, from securities, shares that will be purchased in these companies, e.g. Polish Mining Group... Otherwise: Polish taxpayers will pay PLN 28,8 billion in the next 10 years, including PLN 20.7 billion for the Polish Mining Group, with a reduction of only 6.5 million t at the same time, i.e. 28%. Title of the chapter added to this law This is: The capacity reduction is absolutely inadequate to the content, since the content of the chapter does not say anything about capacity reduction. I remind you that the reduction in production capacity is, among other things.: reduction of employment, reduction of fields of use, walls, movements, etc. There's nothing there. The bill also contains incomprehensible statements. Here, for example. the following Article may be inserted: Article 5b (5) (b) 2, which provides that repayment of commitments shall be suspended until the date of the decision of the European Commission or other termination of proceedings before the European Commission. During the committee's deliberations, we tried to find out from the government representative what other termination of the procedure was meant by the applicant. Well, we didn't find out much. And we also wanted to find out what this other relevant body is, which also appears in the law alongside the European Commission, and we did not get an answer to that question either. Therefore, we do not know whether, if not notified not to this law, but to the previous one, this money will have to be returned. And here on the previous item on the agenda, Senator Gawłowski mentioned that it could end, unfortunately, as in the yard's situation, and then it would have to be returned. Therefore, while recognising that the sole purpose of the Act is to obtain the legal basis for further aid to mines, while at the same time shaming restructuring operations and at the same time not fulfilling the notification obligation, the committee decided to reject this law and recommend that the High Senate do so. Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u287	Thank you very much, Senator. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, Senator Dorota Tobiszowska, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u288	Miss Marshal! Minister! Mr. Director General! Mr. Requestor! High Senate! As Senator rapporteur on behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, I will give the High Senate the purpose and subject of the Act and present a report, published in Senate paper No 602 B, from the meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation held on 5 January 2022. High Senate, the Act provides the legal basis for the system of public support for the hard coal mining sector, which is set out in the government's strategy papers, adopted to phase out the mining activity of hard coal. This system will in particular consist in granting subsidies to reduce the production capacity of mining companies and covering the costs resulting from the completion of coal extraction and the decommissioning of production units which are not linked to current production. The Act requires the Minister responsible for the economy of fossils to determine, inter alia, by means of a regulation. the detailed conditions of the support scheme for subsidies, including how they are determined, the conditions and the modalities for granting, and their clearance. At the same time, the Act provides that the granting and settlement of subsidies and the operation of the mining company and its designated production units under the support scheme will be subject to monitoring, control and verification. Dear Senate, the bill is to enter into force on the day following the day of the announcement. The draft law on the amendment of the law on the operation of hard coal mining comes from the submission of a parliamentary one. 276 Members voted in favour of the bill, 11 against, 165 abstentions. It's an explanation for what bill we're talking about. Mr Piotr Pyzik, the Undersecretary of State present here at the Ministry of State Assets, Mr Jonah Drabek, Director of the Mining Department at MAP, Mr Kozik, who is an applicant, as well as Mr Jacek Partyka, Deputy Director of the Economic Policy Support Department at the Ministry of Finance. The applicant has brought the background of this parliamentary initiative closer, which is not only a part of the social contract concluded, but also, or above all, to prevent the formation of an uncontrolled collapse or even the bankruptcy of State Treasury companies. We're talking mining companies here. It's about long-term, systematic and comprehensive assistance. We are talking about 73 municipalities, which will be affected by the transformation of the mining sector, about 82 thousand jobs and more than 400 000 jobs in the mining sector. The new support system is targeted at 3 actors. This is the Polish Mining Group SA, Tauron Extraction SA and Węglokoks Kraj SA. The assumptions of the bill were consulted with the MAP, i.e. with the Ministry of State Assets. What should I feel should be pointed out as rapporteur? On the following issues. Questions were asked by individual senators, among others. by Senator Adam Szejnfeld, by Senator Piecha, also by Senator Lamczyk. They dealt with issues related to the amount of extraction, asked when the hard coal mining sector would be extinguished, about notification, pre-notice, etc. In my mind... I may quote a few answers here, but I will also present the opinion of the Legislative Bureau. The Legislative Office made 5 specific comments on the basis of which amendments were created during the discussion. First amendment, legislative... Both Amendments 1 and Amendments 2 and 3, all, I must point out, have received unanimous support from the entire Committee on National Economy and Innovation. I would like to stress this by hearing what my previous speaker said about this bill and the vote. Amendment 2 was an amendment tabled by the President, Maria Koc, concerning the fact that the funds transferred to the mining company would not be subject to judicial and administrative execution. This amendment, High Senate, was agreed with the Ministry of State Assets. The third amendment, which we voted on at the Economic Committee meeting, was typical of order. I repeat that all three amendments were unanimously voted in favour. As regards the answers that have been made by both Director Drabek and Minister Pyzik, first of all, I will say that a pre-notice request has been submitted. He does not have a formal conclusion in general, but, as we learned at the committee meeting, the Director-General of the European Commission gave a clear message to Poland to submit a notification request. The Ministry of State Assets will make such a request, and this is what the senators asked at the committee meeting this month, in January 2022, we received this assurance. The issue of the pre-nomination proposal has been discussed for many months at various levels, and it will not surprise the European Commission, as we heard at the committee meeting. With regard to the limitation of extraction, this question has also been raised and we have received an answer that, during the period of granting this financial assistance, and we are talking about the years 2022 to 2031, the reduction will amount to around 10 million tonnes of coal. There was a vote on the whole bill. I will present the results of this vote to the High Senate: 5 votes for, 0 against, 6 senators abstained. In view of this result of the vote, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation gave a positive opinion on this draft law. On behalf of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, as Senator, I ask the rapporteur to adopt this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u289	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the senators of the rapporteurs. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski. To whom, Senator? [[Senator to both of you.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u290	Except it's gonna be a slightly different question, although it's about the same topic. To the senator: what would happen if we met the request of the other committee, the other, the emergency climate committee, and we rejected the bill, she wouldn't become the law? What's the threat?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u291	I can, right? Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Mr. Senator! We received this response because we discussed this at the committee meeting, that the Ministry of State Assets wants to be one step ahead, because a pre-notice request has been made, and it is known that administrative matters in Europe will last for no one knows how long, and until then there is a kind of empty space that needs to be used primarily financially. What's going to happen? The Minister mentioned the liquidity of the companies referred to in this Act. It's very important to me, too. I am an employee of the Polish Mining Group, so I know something about this topic. This law will certainly improve the liquidity of these companies. But as this bill puts it, that's not exactly what this is about. The idea is to put out the sector, the hard coal industry, over the years 2022 to 2031 to construct individual mines that are to be extinguished and which are initially marked in a social agreement concluded between the government party and the union party... The point is that there should be money for this until the notification request is approved by the European Commission. Maybe that's what I'm gonna say.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u292	May I ask, Mr. Marshal? [[Yes.]] So it could be that if we didn't pass this bill in time or if the Sejm hadn't rejected the motion for rejection, it would have caused some social turmoil. This social agreement would be largely unenforceable and would cause social unrest.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Yes. In my mind, yes. And that also sounded like a meeting of the Economics Committee. Definitely. As I mentioned, at the meeting of our committee, the Minister and the Director of the Mining Department, Mr Drabek also mentioned this. First of all, it is about not having this collapse in terms of both jobs and so-called jobs. the uncontrolled bankruptcy of the companies in question. So that the first step to the fact that we, as a Member State, have to implement the European Union's provisions on the extinction of the hard coal industry was the social agreement, yes, rather than otherwise constructed. And now that's what you need money for. By the time there's a notification, it'll be a while.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u294	Thank you, Senator. Does the senator want to ask you another question, Marshal? [[Yes.]] You're welcome. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: I can answer from the place.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u295	My question is a little more general. It concerns this motion to reject the law. The question is general, if not for the first time so, that in the course of the deliberations of another committee, I would call it, the industry speaks in one way or another and often, for example. proposes amendments to heal the bill to correct any errors, and the Extraordinary Commission on Climate matters always or almost always wants to reject the law. This is an extraordinary committee, and extraordinary committees, as I recall, make a slightly different sense. They are not to duplicate the role and work of the basic committees. And in this committee, most interestingly, there's hardly one. I don't know, why don't you fix me up or your marshal will fix me up? A member of the PiS, the biggest club. So, to recap, I have this question: what do you propose in return? Except you guys want to reject that kind of legislation all the time. Do you want social unrest? 'Cause that's what it's gonna be about. Do you have any specifics? I don't know... [[Timer signal]] ...some way out of this trial. Incidentally, initiated not by Poland, but in a way forced by the European Union.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u296	Dear Senator, I respond. Firstly, with regard to the composition of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, I remind you that the Senators of Law and Justice have left the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs themselves. They weren't removed from this committee. There were quite a few at the first committee meeting. So I don't know what the reasons were. I think the state should find out for itself. That's the first line. Second, what's in return? So the Extraordinary Commission on Climate actually devotes a lot of attention to coal mining from the very beginning. Since it was founded, there have been several meetings that only concerned mining. And you were Minister Soboń, the minister's predecessor, at these meetings. We had concrete proposals. But above all, You can listen to the recordings from those committee meetings At that time, we proposed that they sit together over political divisions and think about how It is precisely what you are talking about that can lead to restructuring, to the gradual extinction of the mining industry. The idea was that on the one hand there should be continuity of this reform regardless of the change of government, and on the other hand, that all political forces should agree to it. As it was in Germany in its time, all political groups agreed on how the mines would be destroyed, and no matter who later ruled, they all did so. In Poland, we have had the opposite situation since 1989, and in principle since 1991, when mines were released from central management. We are still struggling with the restructuring of mining. These restructurings were many and there were many laws on the restructuring of mining because each government that came had a different idea of how to save this industry. And mines, especially in Silesia, coal mines have a completely different situation than coal mines coking Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa, and in a completely different situation there is a mine in Lublin. And please imagine that this government has thrown these Silesian mines, indebted, with very bad technical and geological conditions, and the Bogdanka mine, which really produces a lot, its performance is twice as high as in the mines of the Polish Mining Group, into one sack, although in this mine there was somehow no social unrest. So I go back to the beginning of my reply, and we have repeatedly proposed to sit down, and I myself have spoken many times in committee and outside of the committee with Minister Sobony and it was like a peas against a wall. Yes, Mr. Senator, and yes, ladies and gentlemen, you have to sit down and do something in accordance with the law, above all by law. That is why we tabled a motion to reject the bill and the committee voted because the notification, which Senator Tobiszowska spoke about, does not apply to this law. She's dealing with a different bill from the previous year. Therefore, this law is not subject to notification. That's why we have to do something. Of course we do. And the result will now be that in the next 10 years we will put in another 30 billion PLN and once again we will not eliminate anything. I mean, we're gonna eliminate a few moves... But in fact, what was signed with the social side... I have great concerns, great concerns, or even though there is a prenotice, this assistance will be approved by the European Commission. And one more thing, Mr. Senator. It is not that the European Union is forcing us to do so. This is not just a question of the Union, because in the 1990s and in the early 2000s, when Poland started restructuring mining, we were not in the European Union, and this mining was still worse. It's not like that. It's just done without a head under the dictation of a small trade union group. And I'm saying this with full responsibility, because I worked with these unionists at one time, too, so I know exactly what the reality of mining restructuring is. But if politicians for the next 30 years hadn't succumbed in such a way to the dictatorship of trade unions, which they keep in the chess of miners, the social side, I think we'd be much further away. And one more thing. When the coal mine was liquidated in the 1990s in 1997 in Nadwiślańska Spółka Węglowa, it had to be closed down, although it was the newest mine in Poland, for reasons, well, the deposit issue, it was simply badly planned by the miners who worked in this mine, they knew very well when they would have to leave their position, where they had proposals, in which other mine, on which position, for how much money, and had a choice. But they could have left, they could have left and gotten backup. Only every miner was aware of that. The miners don't know that today, and that's the problem. So, Mr. Senator, we should all sit down and create a law consistent with the conditions in which we operate, but also so that those mines in which there are dangers... Not as far as December 4th was another mining accident where other people died. This is actually one of the mines in such a region, in such a triangle, you can say, geological hazards, methane hazards... These are very deep mines, where every underground exit is at risk. The miners don't want to spend as many hours underground every day, and the temperature... The miners would be happy to work elsewhere. But let's all think about how the miners, who have so many left, can offer good jobs outside of the deep-sea mines. [[If you don't mind my asking, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u297	You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u298	À by way of a proposal Work, it was the shipbuilders who had a proposal for dog cosmetics, we already know that. And now specifically, apart from the fact that we have to sit down... Do you have a model document? Do you have a bill? 'Cause so far, it's just... [[Voice from the room: But...]] ...you're rejecting everything. The question is very simple. What do you propose in return? Maybe a shorter line, more specific. This and put it on the table. We haven't found anything yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u299	If the senator expects me to present this, of course I can. I don't know if you'll allow this extension. Yeah, you can do that, and we talked about that, too. A restructuring plan must be prepared, but a real restructuring, for each mine, based on the deposit, geological conditions, human conditions, and also the average age of miners who work in a given mine, and how many years of data can be exploited. And today it can be prepared. And you can sit down and really write a plan that the mines will have to eliminate at which point, where we'll send these miners. It's easier today than it was years ago. We have technical capabilities. I think that the Polish Górnicza Group has such calculations, too, because in years... 10 years ago it had such calculations, so I think it does now. And it has to be done. And plans to eliminate individual walls, individual decks and then individual movements in such a way... and taking into account also the demand for coal, because most of these coal plants... As an example, I serve the Power Plant, in which 2 coal blocks have been turned off, and 4 more will be turned off in 2025, and the mine Bolesław Śmyły, which in 80% it transfers coal to this power plant, has a much longer life. Well, that's irrational. Let's do it rationally and find the means. And such measures, Mr. Senator, would also come from the Fair Transformation Fund, the people's departure and the creation of jobs. But, unfortunately, you rule, the PiS rules for 6 years, so far it has been pumped into the Polish Mining Group huge money and has no effect. She's still on the verge of bankruptcy, because without state aid she doesn't even have a salary. Well, then something's not happening. So we're not the ones in charge, you're the ones in charge, and you're the ones who're going to come up with a plan that's, first, legal, and second, rational. And which doesn't mean that in 2, 3 or 4 years, there will be social protests again and we'll have to sign out billions more of our countrymen, taxpayers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u300	Thank you. You ask Senator Chróścikowski, you address them to the Senator... [[Tobiszowska.]] ...Tobishowska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u301	I have a question. Because I just heard here the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, who said that she would prepare it, they would do it, etc. So far, has the government... Was there a discussion at the committee meeting... Wasn't that kind of action done? Was this agreement that was concluded not based on such issues? I'm just surprised that some people don't want to work together, but they want to turn it down so that it can only function... Nevertheless, I'm sorry to hear that this is the way we put it, that we have nothing, and maybe we're just going to think... And I think what you said... I think that thinking was already in the government, since the bill was prepared. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u302	Mr. Marshal, High Senate, Minister, let's set up some facts. I will answer that question, but I will also refer to what the rapporteur of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate has said. First of all, when we talk about having to sit down, well, I don't know who's supposed to sit down, because the union side has already sat down with the government and the consequence that they sat down is a social agreement. She just is. I don't comment on what, better or worse, she just is. So that time was, Senator, to encourage, to possibly submit amendments, etc., etc., etc. So it happened. Mr. Senator, to answer the question of what the ministry was doing, you could say it was. The social contract was made. In the social agreement, ladies and gentlemen, there is an annex that talks about the extinction of individual mines over the years. There's also a record that says it's all moving because it's a living organism. I'll give you an example from my own mine. Mrs. Senator, the people in my mine did not die. I'm talking about an accident that took place in Barbórka in my movement. Bielszowice, where I work, but 1 man died. That's one thing. Then you have inaccurate data. I'm also asking you not to say that, because these are serious things, it's important whether 1 man is killed or how many people are killed. One man was killed. Ladies and gentlemen, please note that there is also a provision in the social contract that says that regarding the movement of the Bielszowice mine, a team was formed to determine how much coke is, what is it, whether we can use it, etc. Please note that on this movement, where we have been fighting for two years to extend the service life of this mine for some time, there has just been an accident and a high energy shock, which caused one miner to die. Please note that the records by the way, if we are talking about a social contract, and life by the way, because we are covered with some meters of this excavation, which could be exhausted in the near future. That's enough to explain to you what it looks like when it comes to this point. Besides, I would also like to point out to the High Senate that there are no consequences. In our committee, which I am a member of, on the economic committee, there were Senators of the Civic Coalition and they did not vote to reject this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a complete lack of consistency. They abstained. Enough of that, senators asked for answers from the Ministry, among others. Mr. Senator Szejnfeld, Mr. Senator Lamczyk, Mr. Senator Piech. Some responses were received at the committee meeting and some were to be given in writing. I understand that such answers have certainly appeared. There is therefore no consequence: one committee adopts the draft law and another committee rejects the draft in its entirety. Well, then, ladies and gentlemen, you can't really do that, because it's too serious. If we're talking about the past, then, Senator, yes, but you're talking about the '90s, closing down the mines, and now we have a completely different situation, and you know it. Namely, the situation is that we need this money in Silesia, among others. to maintain liquidity, but above all to ensure that social contract records are implemented, and also to... Well, we need the senator to know it well. In some way to respond to what the European Union wants, and you want to expire, and you know exactly what the costs of CO2 are. And that, above all, makes it less mining, and it's going to be less mining, and we've heard it from the Minister. 10 million t by 2031. So it's not like there's no idea that nobody's doing anything, that they don't know what the money's for. We know exactly. But you can't, as at the committee meeting, High Senate, it was said, strictly estimate how many billions it would be. Because here we are talking about 28 billion, more than 28 billion zlotys in the 20222031 area. There's no way to say there's going to be this much in 2022, and next year there's going to be this much. Hypothetically somewhere in some kind of framework, yes, but you can't... Therefore, as I reported, the movement of Bielszowice may be functioning, but now everything is under the control of the mining authority and we do not know whether we will be able to extract or not. This also shows that the exact amounts that could be estimated per financial year cannot be determined and therefore the overall amount to be allocated by 2031 is determined. I think I gave you a brief answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u303	Senator Piech. Which one do you have a question for?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u304	Senator Moravian-Stanecka. I do not agree with this statement by the senator because we know what the condition of Polish mining is and how many individual mines still have time to extract hard coal. Operating resources in active coal mines are 3.2 billion t, no more. This is going to be 2049, because this is going to be the volume of this production. The social contract clearly states which mines and when to cease their activities. The mine's closure is a mine's exit from extraction of 2,2,5 million t, some mines extract up to 3 million t per year. It's perfectly countable. [[Timer signal]] When it comes to energy, because energy is also an important player here, we still have more than 70% electricity is produced from coal. We can't just keep shutting these carbon blocks down, because what are we gonna replace them with? There's nothing to talk about. I wouldn't exactly agree with those sentences you said. I know that in the Federal Republic of Germany this process has been since 1968 and it has been a continuous process. That's what we want to do. For 10 years we want this coal mining to sustain, so as not to lead to an uncontrolled fall. [[Voice from the room: Where's the question?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u305	Now your marshal. There was a question...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u306	I haven't heard the question, but I'm very happy to respond and also to what Senator Tobiszowska said. I understand your situation perfectly because you work in one of those mines. But the mines of Bielszowice, Peace, Halemba, are the mines with the highest associated dangers. And just like these mines, I'm going to tell you where the mistake is. These are primarily methane mines, about IV, which is the highest level of methane risk. There's a third degree of blunt force risk and a temperature exceeding 28 degrees Celsius. With these risks, there is no way to operate intensively at this point, and productivity is not high because working time is reduced. It's not 7.5 hours, but 6 hours from exit to departure, which means the working time of the underground miner is 3 or 3.5 hours. With the methane threat, the more you dig... This methane is trapped in coal, so the more it gets out, the more it gets out. The greater the combined risks, therefore, the greater the risk to workers, the lower productivity and higher costs, and in some areas the operation of mining works is completely excluded. And irrationality is precisely that you try to operate in such mines at all costs, while you might think that those miners who can still find work in other mines would be transferred to other mines, those who are young could get jobs outside of mining. But this would have to be discussed with local governments and all other political forces. And these elders could go to cover benefits and then retire. And the point is not to keep mines that are irrational. Mr. Senator said there was a social contract. I'll remind you of the circumstances. The creation of this social agreement is September 2020. I remember this very well, because that day was the first meeting of the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs. The Minister, who presented PEP2040, i.e.Polish Energy Policy until 2040, stood on this platform and said that the mine will be liquidated by 2039 or 2040. At the same time, 20 minutes earlier, Minister Soboń signed with the social side the introduction to this agreement. I then asked you a minister who was interrogated with us, who spoke about this Energy Policy of Poland, the question: do you talk to each other in ministries? Because what the Minister presented to us as an energy programme of the government was completely inconsistent with what he had signed with the social side of the minister's colleague, another minister. The answer to that question, I'm sure you don't think, was it? The issue of decommissioning mining capacity. I have a table here that the Minister sent us. We, Senator, have requested a lot of documents and additional information. Perhaps the senators in our committee simply got acquainted with these materials in detail and therefore made such a decision. And that's not surprising, because in the Senate it happens very often that the senators of the 2nd commission, discussing the same bill, make different decisions. Some recommend it and others recommend it. After all, we have regular means to make it more consistent later. Well, for example. drew my attention to the reduction in coal production compared to the capacity subsidy table. You don't have it, so I'll read it. It is precisely about the mining plants of Sobieski and Janina. Well, I think that they are very important to the rapporteur. And here's a reduction in extraction: 2022, 3 thousand 400, 2023, 3 thousand 400, 2024, 3 thousand 400, 2025, 3 thousand 400. So it's not going to be reduced by 1 t for four years. At the same time, this mine will receive millions: in 2022, PLN 646,9 million, 2023, PLN 482,2 million, 2024, PLN 469,2 million, 2025, PLN 453,8 million, 2026, PLN 448.2 million. So what's the reduction here? And what's the money for? What does the Polish taxpayer finance? ♪ 'Cause I'd be ♪ She understood if any reduction had occurred if this law had established what else, apart from mining, would have been reduced. Well, then you could lean on it. But what do we know from this table? I, of course, asked the Minister questions and asked him for an answer in writing, but I did not get these answers. Therefore, do not be surprised that this was the decision of our committee. Because it was the whole committee's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u307	Thank you. Do you still want to ask the senator? [[Yeah, yeah. I'd like to refer to that, because these...]] No, no, Senator, it's question time. If you want to speak up, do so in the debate. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u308	Okay, okay. I'm just going to read a passage: the extraction of hard coal in the years 2011 and 2020... How did this extraction change, the scale of this extraction? In 2011, there were 75 million tons in 2020, 54 million. So the extraction has already been reduced by 21 million t, without any social contract, without any law. And it's gonna go on. You gave an example of Tauron Extraction, and we still have PGG and... [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka:... This is just an example, Mr. Senator.]] Okay, but it's the PGG that's gonna reduce that mining capacity. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka:... Stay.]] Okay...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u309	Ladies and gentlemen, let us not lead by shouting polemics. If you wish to speak more fully, I invite you to the debate. Is there anything else Senator Tobiszowska would like to add? [[I'd just like to address the senator's words, namely...]] Well, that's where the senator's name came from.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u310	Yeah, yeah. Mrs. Senator said that I work there and that you understand me. Senator, I'm also a senator, so I have a place to work. There, in the mines of Halemba and Bielszowice, mostly 6 thousand miners work. That's one thing. And second, Senator, in a moment everyone will be convinced that you are an expert in the mining industry. Well, I'm really excited, but I'm telling everyone that I've been working in this business for over 30 years, and I'm the head of the organizational and legal department, and I've got some knowledge, although maybe I don't write it like you do. And let me just add that the mines of Halemba and Bielszowice are methane mines, although they do not belong to... These excavations, which we wanted to irritate to draw from them, did not cause much danger. It's like an explanation because you're starting to get into the subject matter, and it doesn't exactly look like it. So much for explaining. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u311	You're asking Senator Chróścikowski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u312	Mr. Marshal, I have a question for Senator Tobiszowska as a professional. I used to work downstairs, and I know what that job looks like... [[No recording]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Dear Minister, Well, if it wasn't, Mr. Senator, mining wouldn't be right at all. It's a first. I didn't want to do politics, but, Senator, I'm gonna answer you and you like this. In 2015, ladies and gentlemen, there was no idea what to do with individual mines. And then the mine, which was an independent mine, was simply to be liquidated by Mrs. Kopacz in 100 days of its power as prime minister, day by day. And then, when I remind you and the High Senate, me and the union organizations... I was a co-organizer at the time of the strike that made this mine so far not feder, but it is. So in six years, she could have taken the deposits. I didn't want to introduce politics here, but now I'm gonna say it. At that time, there was no idea, just that the mine was supposed to be shut down overnight, and we had to strike to protect it. It's not that simple to move mine workers, miners to other mines, it's very complicated matter. I won't mention the administrative staff here again. So, by answering here and ending, because I don't want to get too involved in these issues, I will say this: Mr. Senator, of course there are mines more or less dangerous, but this is a normal thing. And that mine, and the Polish Górnicza Group, which I represent, and all other mines pay particular attention to safety, but we must all consider that there will be a high energy shock, as it is now on December 4, which was felt on the surface and had, unfortunately, very negative consequences on the deck, 750 m below. That's what happens. And we all know that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u314	Thank you very much. That was the last question. The draft law was introduced by Members. Mr Krzysztof Janusz Kozik was authorised to present the position of the applicants for the bill. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? You're welcome, Mr. Messenger.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u315	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! I'd like to present the background of the work, because the attention of your marshal was that it would seem as if we wanted to force support as a mining industry. I think, however, that we were more concerned not only about mining itself, but also about its entire surroundings. I would like to point out that in addition to 80 000 miners who are active and currently working in Polish mining, there are also more than 400 000 people who cooperate in various companies producing materials for mining as well as performing services for mining. That's what the whole community lives for. I would like to point out that often for local governments, local government units of several dozen or even several dozen percent of the share of the income constitutes income from the tax on the natural persons of these employees, and they also have a share in the operating fees. This is really huge money, and mining also generates it. That's why we expect that in these 20 mines... In twenty, because that's what the social contract says, but in ten of those that are assigned to this project, we can, as we count, support the limitation of mining power, Mrs. Marshal. Because it doesn't look like a reduction. In order for these costs not to be excessively high, a subsidy must be introduced for extraction. And some mines will come down more from mining because of the demand and other mines, e.g. contracts with power plants which have such a technical life or technical regime and will operate will have to supply fuel. And that's why it might be that in some mining plants production will be reduced more quickly and resources will be drawn. Perhaps it will also be seen that the mine has not been fully finished and that the mine will also be destroyed. But it's all made of care, too, so these people can work out. That's why we're gonna have the allocation. And it's all part of the social contract. The social contract included timetables for the liquidation of the establishments, and described timetables for the departure of those persons. And some of these people, I think that this is the right direction, will go away to deserved mining pensions, some people will be able to benefit from cover packages, and some will normally improve in another plant, which, let's say, will have extended life. I was not a participant in the talks, so I would not like to enter into issues related to the preparation of a social contract, but I believe that this is a rational direction, because it allows us to secure what is important for us, i.e. Polish energy security based on Polish raw materials. Because we're not able to change our energy structure within a few years and we're going to lead to this collapse of mining, that we're going to import coal from Russia, because it's natural, it's closest, so to say, a large supplier of this raw material. And it turns out that instead of reducing CO2 emissions, if we want to prepare it calmly, rationally, we've increased it, because we're going to produce energy from behind us, and we're going to deliver this coal from behind the Urals. So I guess that's not the direction, not the logic. Of course, the project is consulted by us. I had the opportunity to talk to trade unions, also to President Rogala, as well as to Tauron Extraction, I know these mines, I know the reality, and I know that some processes have already begun with the limitation of extraction, and this unfortunately has an impact on costs. This is why, as stated in the social agreement, one of the elements of this support is the aid to reduce extraction, which is unfortunately already taking place. We are not able to change this trend, because unfortunately the investment process in mining is several months, and even it can be counted in years, from one and a half years to two years, to rebuild production capacity. At present, the situation may be slightly better due to turbulence in the energy markets, with gas supplies. But unfortunately we know well that the European Union's climate policy will lead to a reduction in the demand for coal. We in Poland will still use it in private homes until 2040 and we probably have to provide it to the residents of Poland, because, as Mrs Bieńkowska said, sorry, this is the climate we have, in the winter we will have to warm up. We also didn't want to wait, but we didn't want to wait, and we didn't want to wait, and we didn't want to wait, and we didn't want to wait, and we didn't want to wait, and we didn't want to wait, and we didn't want to see it spilling out, as it was in 2003, when the senator had the pleasure of being a member of the last board of the Coal Company, and we had to clean up what was left of our colleagues from the Civic Platform. Now, however, we want to prepare the rational next stages of the restructuring of mining so that it does not collapse, but that it is a process that is progressing. Of course, it will end with the fact that one day we will stop using coal in energy processes, but it should be a process of transformation, spread over time, as you said, in Germany. We can model on this, and this is even reflected in the part of this project that was implemented in Germany. I think this is a good direction, and I encourage your senators to vote in favour of this bill, because it is necessary for us not only to lead to an uncontrolled collapse of the Silesian voivodship, but also a large part of Poland, because this also applies to western Małopolska. Thank you. If there are any questions, of course I serve as the answer.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u316	Thank you very much. Stay here, Mr. Member, 'cause I can see that there are questions. Marshal Gabriel Moravian Staneck.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u317	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. I have one question about all these companies around the hill. As we all know in Silesia, in the case of mines the payment period is about a hundred days, but very many mining companies, these suppliers to mining companies, to mines, do not get money without a judicial judgment. And you here to this bill after the committee meeting propose an amendment that will be free of classes. So how are these suppliers supposed to benefit from this? In fact, it's a signal for all those who cooperate: not only will they not pay you, but if you go to court, you won't have anything to draw from it yet. How do you want to resolve these issues?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u318	I am not a member of the board of directors of any of the coal companies, but I think that, above all, what has been pointed out before, it is about maintaining liquidity. If there is no liquidity, all liabilities will still be settled by the court and will be determined according to the hierarchy. So it was a question of subsidies, because it was about subsidies, not revenues from coal sales, from contracts, etc. The point is that there is no possibility that the funds that will be transferred to the operation will just be taken into account for some kind of commitment, which will lead to this uncontrolled bankruptcy. It is about reversing this situation so as not to lead to uncontrolled bankruptcy, and the receivables should be realised from revenues from contracts, from coal extracted and from sales. I think this is the right direction, and in this direction we should go, not in such a way as to repeal this law. Because, I suppose, although I am not, as I said, a member of the board of directors of any of the companies There are certainly now commitments that can be applied for and taken up by the court.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Gawłowski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u320	Thank you very much. This is a complicated, difficult bill prepared by a group of Members. Mr President, with great respect for you and the group, I would just like to know which experts you worked with, who you worked with, how much time it took you to do so. preparation of this draft law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u321	I can speak for myself because I don't know what it was like with other Members who, as I say, participated in this. I also spoke with coal companies, also with trade unions, to make it clear as well. . and the representatives of the companies have outlined the problems they have, as a result of the social contract. I was also pleased to consult with Director Drabek and Minister Pyzik when he took his position.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u322	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u323	I'm just gonna ask. Mr. President, then this is a government bill, not a parliamentary bill, right? [[Mr. Senator, this is...]] That's how I understood it, because you said you consulted... Did you write it or did you write it?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u324	Mr. Senator, I said... We could write things, and at the moment... We were applicants, so we could write things. As soon as it got to the committee, the committee, the government side, the experts, the legislators also got involved in this process. And, of course, as of today, even as a result of the amendments that you have also tabled in this Chamber, this project has already changed. But I can tell you what was originally. Our original intention was to defend mining against uncontrolled bankruptcy. But in the further process, of course, the matter is progressing, so I cannot say that for today it is my bill or my Members of the applicants, because it in a way as if it had already evolved. But, of course, the intention, and as if the original assumption was that we would prepare a solution that would defend the interests of mining, of course, taking into account what is enshrined in the social agreement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u325	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u326	Mr. Marshal, I'll just ask. I have been a Member for many years, for many years, so I know the rules of the Sejm. So I am simply asking: are you and your group of initiators who are the authors of this bill and how you wrote it, i.e. With which experts, with whom, did the government write it and gave you to sign it, and you put it as a parliamentary initiative? It's a simple question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u327	I'll answer you this: I didn't write it myself, so I can't tell you that I wrote the bill. But it was prepared by a group of Members. It's hard for me to tell who contributed to this. The answer is not that I was the author of this, but it is not a government project, it is a parliamentary project, and I draw attention to it. [[Thank you very much for this last declaration, I mean. that you emphasized that this is not a government project, it is a parliamentary project, because it is important for the notification and then I will talk about it.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u328	Good. No further questions, so thank you, Mr... [[Voice from the room: There's a question.]] Oh, I'm sorry. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u329	Mr. Marshal! Mr. Speaker! High Izbo! I would like to ask you about these records that speak very clearly about the suspension and then the waiver of the due and non-requireable obligations which are in individual mining plants. In my professional practice, I remember a time when there was a waiver of liabilities in the mines that were being liquidated, in principle: rolling liabilities, so that a huge number of companies cooperating with mines were, unfortunately, on the verge of bankruptcy, and many of these companies simply went bankrupt. Do I understand these records and their intentions, i.e. Do you want to do this in exactly the same way as it was once done in SRK or BSRK? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u330	I'll take it back, Senator, like this: I don't know what it used to look like. I think that today the obligation rests on the coal company, not on individual mines, because the mines do not have legal personality, it is owned by coal companies, so if any commitment concerns the X or Y mine in the Polish Mining Group, it is an obligation of the Polish Mining Group. I think it's similar in Tauron, in Weglokox, but it's so much simpler that there's only one mine out there today. So I think that this is how these obligations lie with the companies. Now here's the question we've been talking about. We were asking for the possibility to waive our obligations to the Social Security Office and to the Polish Development Fund, because there are also issues... It concerns, I think, to the greatest extent... But this also results, as I said, from discussions with the trade union side as well as with representatives of the boards of coal companies, as these commitments are so high, so large that if they are due, they will be able to jeopardise the financial liquidity of the companies. And here I agree with that, and among other things. that's our intention, that either, as you say nicely, to roll... I don't think it's about rolling, it's about the possibility, as if it were a redemption of this commitment. Because it may turn out that it will actually be difficult to repay. These are, of course, obligations to state institutions, i.e. the Social Insurance Institution or the PFR, which do not apply to private entities. [[Not applicable?]] At this point... I said, about these two institutions, i.e. PFR and ZUS. [[May I ask, Mr. Marshal?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u331	Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u332	What about commitments to local governments?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u333	I didn't see that record there, either with the actors... Well, operating fees, everything else, I think, will be regulated, it wasn't our intention to talk about such redemptions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u334	Mr President, but these are commitments to entities that, as you have said with concern, are co-operatives, are an environment of mining. Therefore, if a project of this kind is being prepared, in a huge hurry, as you can see from the legislative process, and you have experience with such processes that have taken place in the past in mining, then these things need to be predicted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u335	It was an opinion, not a question. Yet, Mr Senator Szejnfeld asks a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u336	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. The Member representing the applicants has repeatedly used refunds in the interests of mining, in the interests of the miners, speaking of the intention to write and present this law. I would like to ask what you mean by using the concepts of mining interests or mining interests.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u337	Senator, the interests of mining or industry are, firstly, stable work, and secondly, ensuring what is important to us, namely energy security. This is an interest in the mining industry, but I think it's also an economic industry. Maybe I'm talking about mining, but you have to look at it more closely. We today have no alternative to securing coal for Polish energy only from Polish mines or from imports, most likely from Russia. So a stable process, somehow prepared, will be predictable in the interests of mining. In that sense, I use that statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u338	I don't know if we got the right idea. I am asking, therefore, that you know that if a representative of any other company or industry, especially private, said in the Seym or in the Senate that he had written a bill in the interests of his company or in the interests of his industry, he would probably be interested in the prosecutor, because this is mere lobbying. I understood and I would like to understand that the business that this is about is, firstly, the interest of the state, of the Polish state, and not of you as authors, secondly, the interest of citizens who could, for example, pay rational prices for energy, thirdly, the interest of the environment, the climate. I think we're here to create a law that serves the general public, not just one company or even one industry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u339	I don't know if the senator has read the justification. In the explanatory memorandum it is It's very detailed. I could still say that we could probably all do more. In 2013, as the Civic Platform ruled, there were projects, signals from the union side to develop coal gasification technologies, and if this were done, today we probably wouldn't have a problem with Putin dictating the terms. So there's probably more to be done. But in the justification is written widely about 400 thousand people who cooperate with mining, so if there is bankruptcy, it will also affect them, about the regions, because it is not only the Silesian region, but even, you can say, a large part of southern Poland, about local governments. I think it's a broadly understood business. If you took it so that it is only the interests of the mining group, and it is 80,000 people, it is probably not the interests of one entrepreneur, as you said, only of the whole group, of the entire community of workers who live out of it, but also work for the Republic of Poland. So I think that public aid is justified. On the other hand, as I said, there is a very broad context here. If I only narrowed it down to the mining environment, it could be the result of 30 years of mining ties with a mining uniform. I'm not ashamed of that, and I'm probably gonna stress it out loud. But it was about the context of the broadly understood raw material economy. We, as a mining industry, secure what is needed today and probably still for these 10 years, and maybe 20 years will be needed for us to have some effect on energy, on energy carriers, and not give in to the dictatorship, as we do today, that we have no influence on the prices of energy carriers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u340	Thank you very much, Mr. Ambassador. [[Thank you, too.]] That was the last question. At present, senators may report from a place of no more than a minute's duration to an authorised representative of the government... Oh, I'm so sorry. [[Voice from the room: Is the representative...]] Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Hello, Mr. Piotr Pyzik, Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of State Assets. Minister? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Piotr Pyzik: Mr. Marshal...]] [[Voice from the room: Microphone.]] [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of State Acts Piotr Pyzik: Microphone, I apologize most. Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I said what I had to say at one and the other committee meeting. That's it. Thank you.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Mr. Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We set up an Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs, which at first was supposed to serve as a kind of toy for one man to keep the majority, and then it turned out that most of the laws that go through it propose to repeal or are against these laws. But now I see another step further, according to dialectics. I would ask you to explain to the representatives of the committee who want to reject this bill, what it threatens to do. .. such concepts have been used here. The uncontrolled bankruptcy of individual plants, individual mines and what it means to collapse the civilization of Silesia. In other words, he explained to you what it would be like to threaten if this law were not passed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u342	Please, Minister, you may answer from your seat.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u343	If you don't mind... [[How comfortable you are.]] Thank you. Let me take off my answer mask. Mr. Senator, thank you very much for this question. Here's the thing. State policy goes in such a way that, on the one hand, with everything that is going on in the mining industry, but also raw materials, ensure the competitiveness of the Polish economy, especially in terms of what is happening in Europe and in the world. We must ensure this competitiveness because the competitiveness of our economy has a very real impact on the competitiveness of the European economy. The next point is to take care of the climate. It's obvious. Here, as a Silesian, I will only say that for me this space is so interesting additionally, that a certain aspect, let's call it health, let's say, citizens about whom the senators concerned here, the inhabitants of Silesia also leave much to be desired. And it's also worth talking about health when talking about climate. But it is also such a question that the Polish state must take care not only of organising a certain climate policy, but also of the health of citizens. As far as climate policy is concerned, it is a matter of being a loyal member of the European Union and we are pursuing, we are trying to implement a certain policy, say, and to respond to the challenges that come to us from the European Parliament. Another issue is, of course, a social issue, taking care of all citizens. Because all these movements that we are talking about, which are related to this law, are movements related to energy transformation, and in fact the result of the energy transformation will be a civilization transformation, not only the mining regions or once the mining regions, but the whole of our country. Therefore, taking care of the proper course of this civilization transformation is also our concern in social, civic space. And that's why it's a social agreement, and that's why you care about people mostly. Because it's done by people and people. Well, the truth is, there's a fourth factor that's extremely important, which we, as a government, have to look at. This is the energy security of the Polish state, and this is in each of these aspects that I mentioned earlier. In a situation where uncontrolled decarbonisation would occur 'Cause that's what you gotta call it. First of all, there would be consequences in the social dimension, very deep, very difficult to control. I don't even want to say... I don't want to use the word "revolution" here, but that's probably the simplest word I can think of here. I read it at this point as destructive actions for the Polish state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u344	Thank you very much. I'm opening a discussion. Please take the floor of Senator Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u345	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I do agree with the Minister. These are destructive actions for the Polish state, what you have been doing for the last 6 years, or actually already 7 years. Are you the fourth minister in this government responsible for mining? Yeah, maybe four. I'm very glad you said that because simple things have to be explained. This is a parliamentary bill. Parliamentary, not government. Therefore, no work on the notification has been started for the project. In the case of this law, no work on notification to the European Commission shall be carried out. None, Senator. None. That's... [[It's not for me, it's for the minister.]] No, the minister runs something else. You are the rapporteur of the parliamentary project, the bill that went to the Senate. I repeat, none. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, when such a draft of a group of Members entered the Sejm, your marshal should ask the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection whether this project requires notification. If the Office for Competition and Consumer Protection had replied that it required a "and we all know that it requires and that it would have said so" Then your marshal should stop working on the project and ask the government to carry out the notification process. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a document that is not here. There isn't. You've been in charge for seven years. This government, the ministers and officials sitting there, led Poland to disaster. And you support them. Seven years. I repeat, seven years. And we are discussing a project which, formally, according to the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, should not be in the Senate. But it is. You have the majority in the Seym, so you can even send the greatest wick to the Senate and make us lean over it. Therefore, taking our work in the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs very seriously, unlike many other senators in this part of the room who have signed out of this committee, we have asked for a number of documents concerning the draft law and we have received these documents. I will refer to them and complete the rapporteur's statement, because he unfortunately does not know this draft law. The bill says, among others, that the CIT exemptions and the mine decommissioning fund during this period... Here the amount of PLN 626 million will be included. That's already been calculated by the minister. CIT rate in 2022 - 19%. A redemption of PLN 1 billion 819 million is assumed. It is known that local governments have a share of the tax. This bill assumes it, and the Member did not know it. That's all I want to say. But it's a parliamentary project, it's a parliamentary project. I want you to know that. This bill assumes I've been asking that question today. The aid in 2022 amounted to PLN 6 billion 92 thousand. The trouble is, there's no money in the state budget. They will be transferred under non-budget bonds, illegal. That's how you want to operate. This was mentioned earlier by Marshal Morawska-Staneck, about the tables we received. We received this material as proprietary, classified, confidential material. There was no such material during the Senate debates, so I will use it. I'll remind you again. If there is a possibility to grant State aid in accordance with national law and European law, only if there is extinction and therefore capacity and mining capacity are removed. There's no other way. I repeat, there is no other way. Your marshal read... It is about Zakład Górniczy At this mining plant in 2022, the extraction was 3 million 400, in 2023 3 million 400... What about the amount of support? 482 million, 469 million, etc., etc. What do I mean by that? This is a surcharge to operate, that is an additional surcharge to operate there is no liquidation of production capacity. What does that mean? There's not gonna be a notification for this thing, it's just not gonna be. The notification process for this project has not been launched at all, for this project there is no notification process at all. The notification process launches a government for a completely different project. And even if he's like a dot or a comma, they're different designs. You're just gonna fold, even if they're different... Well, don't nod the principal. I've really been practicing this for eight years, these are different projects. It will end as it did with shipyards in 2006-2007. The then government of PiS added money to the yard and then these shipyards had to pay back all the money they had provided under the state aid they didn't have. And the restructuring process of the yard was that they had to be closed. If you're making fun of these courses, I'd like to tell you that this mine will end exactly the same way. You're going in exactly the same direction. Mr President, with all due respect to the mining profession, because I really have great respect for this profession, the adoption of this law in the version you propose, means that in 2023 all mines will have to close urgently. Is that what you want? Do you really want this? Do you really want to wish this on the miners? You sit next to people who have been managing Polish mining in an inefficient way for 6 years. We invited you to the emergency committee meeting. From the first energy program to 2040... your marshal talked about it. One of the ministers, Guibourgé-Chetwertyński, described to us here what was happening, said that this document was accepted by the government, and another minister, Minister Soboń, signed a social agreement at the time, which had nothing to do with this document, which concerned Polish energy until 2040, including some of the huge mining tasks. More, Minister Soboń announced that he could not tell us, and we wanted to participate in this debate, the draft of this social agreement, because it is secretly broken by a confidential, probably hidden in the knee under the sink. We still didn't get this project today, even though I formally asked for it in writing to get this project. Today he doesn't need it anymore because he's already known, but then I asked that we really have a chance to participate in the debate on the agreement in this part. You complain so much, you say that the wrong committee, the wrong European Union, etc. that Tusk, Platform that 2014. Well, facts, facts. You must know this, I've already said it here, but I'll say it again. There is only one moment when a country can block a decision on some provisions at European Union level. This is a meeting of the European Council, a meeting at the summit. The climate and energy package was signed by President Lech Kaczyński in March 2007. Jarosław Kaczyński was then Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland. This package results from all the implications of different decisions, which also concern the introduction of an emissions trading scheme, etc. The whole big base based on this document was built, signed, I will remind you, by Lech Kaczyński with the permission of the government of Jarosław Kaczyński. But in order for this year 2007 not to be so picky, then, ladies and gentlemen, I will say yes. Well, if you were members of the climate committee, you'd know that. At the meeting of this committee, we dealt with a total of 15 documents related to the legal acts that are related to Fit for 55 Ready for 55. Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by 2030. Note that you will also remember this, attention, Mr Senator, because I am talking to you. Do you know who agreed to this document? [[I'll answer you right away.]] Who said yes? I'll tell you who. This someone's name is Mateusz Morawiecki. At the European summit, Mateusz Morawiecki agreed to this document. He could've put a veto on it. One country could've blocked it. From where I'm standing, it's a good thing he said yes. Just so we're clear, I'm not criticizing him for agreeing. I just don't like the hypocrisy you're trying to do here. Because you say, "Let's save what we can, let's put 30 billion into mining, we won't close anything." You're pretending to support something, and this is a disaster. [[Timer signal]] But it's all been known since yesterday. All decisions related to this process, with the climate and energy package, have been known since 2007. The whole emission allowance system has been known since 2010. Well, first of all, it was in the Co-Biz... I don't want to bore you with these details, and I really have them all in my head. I'm not pretending, I have it because I've been doing it for years. I don't want to bore you with this, but it's clear. This was also clear in 2015 when the Platform government did not want to build coal blocks in Ostrołęka. Then today's Deputy Prime Minister, President Kaczyński, with Mrs Szydło, later Prime Minister, said: if we win, we will build an energy block of coal here. Well, how did it end, you know. 2 or 3 billion were drowned in mud. I'm almost done. Yeah, two or three billion were drowned in the mud. The same was true in other cases. Jaworzno I also mentioned it, and I mentioned it many times. We know what politics are about this case. And the Prime Minister of this government has agreed to this kind of behavior. And the lack of notification for six or seven years is entirely the responsibility of the government, first Beata Szydło and then Mateusz Morawiecki. If you want to break European law now, make the mines close faster, I feel sorry for you because it's a fraud. You want to cheat the miners, say it straight: yes, we want to cheat the miners. But don't involve us in this, we won't participate in the mining fraud. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Marshal Tomasz Grodzki]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u346	Thank you very much, senator. Please take the floor of Marshal Moravian Stanecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Minister! Mostly I'm directing these words to you because we're all... I mean, the Minister referred to here as being from Silesia. I am from Silesia, the senator is from Silesia, while the Member is from Małopolska, but he has also worked his entire life in mining, so we know what we are talking about. It's the same thing for all of us, so that there's no uncontrollable liquidation or bankruptcy of the mines. But we're not gonna talk about how many, many years... I have actually worked in mining for many years, so I know how these further restructurings have been carried out, how many mistakes have been made. But today we can't afford to make mistakes anymore. This is another law on mining restructuring. We have already heard a lot about the budget and the financing of government tasks by means of non-budget instruments. And this law is another example of this kind of financing. Today the government wants to add to the mining companies, to the mines within 10 years. Only so that they last $28 billion of taxpayers' money. Of course, we've heard a lot about the fact that we could offer something. I remind you, we don't rule. Or that they've done something before. So I'm just going to talk about the period of your government, about the Polish Mining Group. The NIK audit, the results of which were published last year... The Minister was supposed to answer me in writing at the committee meeting. What conclusions have been drawn from the follow-up recommendations. This check indicated what irregularities were committed in the creation of the Polish Mining Group. I would like to read you a few comments so that you can understand what we are really talking about. The initial values of acquired assets of the Coal Company and Katowice Coal Holding at company level as a whole were determined in the lower values of a total of approximately 40%. in relation to valuations of property valuers, and at the level of individual mines with values raised or reduced in relation to valuations. This was a distortion of operating costs by over- or under-preparation costs. This led to a deterioration of the net result of individual mines potentially better and improved the financial result of potentially weaker mines. As the Supreme Audit Chamber stated, this undermines the credibility of the economic results presented by the Polish Mining Group and their usefulness in making any management decisions related to the implementation of restructuring activities. The valuations of the assets were carried out in such a way that e.g. on one of the mines fixed assets, or 74 buildings, the value of which was equal to PLN 22.3 million, the initial value was determined at PLN 74. On the question of the NIK controller, what justification to take such an assumption that each of the assets of this mine was to be 1 PLN, the mine director did not explain the substantive reasons, but stated that this was related to the technical limitations of the computer system. Those are the flavors from that NIK check. In fact, by financing the Polish Mining Group, by releasing further shares, the shares included other companies, mainly energy companies, but also PGNiG. And imagine that in October 2020, PGNiG valued the shares of the Polish Mining Group at PLN 0 and made a write-down of PLN 389 million, and PGNiG invested PLN 800 million in shares of the Polish Mining Group and is the largest shareholder. Today Poles may ask: why do we have such expensive gas? Well, then answer your own question. Of course, that's not the only reason, but it's one of the reasons. The Polish Górnicza Group is guilty of consortia of private and state banks. It was 2 billion zlotys, but I think there's more now. It should pay it back in 2023, to the Polish Development Fund PLN 1 billion, which is planned here. I have one request for you: do not deceive the miners. The miners should be told the truth. If you had told the truth six years ago, five years ago, today would have been a different situation. However, the initial agreement with the trade union party was signed in September 2020. Throughout 2021, this agreement has been improved all the time. It's 2022, and yet there's a prenotice. And we're betting on how long it's gonna take. In this act we have the answer: the final date is set for December 2023. What does that remind you of? Because it reminds me that you're not gonna rule anymore. He's gonna be worried about someone else. And of course, the first thing the new government will have to deal with is mining problems. This law does not provide support for capacity reduction, but for the reduction of coal extraction. And it would be all right if they were telling the truth and talking to the opposition. Neither do you in this case, nor in any other case do you want the help of the opposition. There was another record today: 100,000 people died of COVID. Did you want any help from the opposition? After all, we used to go out with this help all the time, with ready-made projects, with ready-made programs. That's the same thing about it. You just don't want to, because you know better. And another flavor, last one. On the basis of the bill we passed last year, employees benefit from social protection. The employees of the Polish Mining Group, who move to the Company for Restructuring of Mines, are to receive support. The Polish Górnicza Group was to liquidate the assets of the liquidated mine in Rud Śląska, to transfer it to the Company for Restructuring of Mine, and the employees were to transfer Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa from the branch of Jastrąb III. In some strange way 1,160 employees from the Polish Mining Group were employed in Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa for one day and were transferred from Jastrzębska Spółka Węglowa. Why? Well, the Polish Górnicza Group did not agree with those who have a security on the assets of the mine.Peace, 40 million PLN, due to the photo from the pledge, therefore such things must be done. And just as you're prostheticizing the case of those workers who, of course, deserve to be shielded, you've been dealing with this issue untransparently, all the time, since 2015 you've been restructuring mining non-transparparently. I repeat: miners deserve the truth. Miners don't dream of going underground every day and sitting at a temperature of 28 and more degrees. I know very well that it is possible to work under such conditions, but if these risks are imposed and if there are other opportunities, if you can benefit from aid, even from public aid and aid from the European Union under the Fair Transformation Fund, then why put them at risk. Why? Why make coal extraction inefficient? During that time, when the Polish Górnicza Group was operating and controlled by NIK, employment in the company grew in some strange way: in 2016 it amounted to 31 thousand 836, in 2017 to 39 thousand 966, and in 2018 to 42 thousand 398. This is a restructuring? I asked Minister Sobonia, and then I did not get this answer, whether it was written in this social agreement that young people would no longer be admitted to mining and would not be fed with illusions that they would improve there for retirement. If it were not possible, if it were guaranteed and recorded, young people would know that they could look for work elsewhere. This job in Silesia is a little bit, and you could create even more jobs. Let me remind you that mining in Silesia is no longer an industry where you earn the most, there are industries that are much better paid. You have to tell people the truth. Those who have pension rights or have a few years to retire must be shielded and retired, to those who want to change, to make it possible, and to those young people who can go elsewhere, not to sell illusions. As for respect, I also have great respect for the miners. I'm married to a miner who's been working in mining for 35 years. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u348	Thank you very much, Marshal. Senator Adam Szejnfeld will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u349	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Much has already been said not to say everything, but my voice and the voice of the representative of the economic committee seem to be needed here too. I would like to say something, starting with one very important issue, in my opinion. Some tried to divide those who dealt with this law into supporters and opponents of Polish miners or supporters and opponents of the Polish mining industry. And I would like to say, not only when it comes to this law, not only about this debate, but also because of my experience in the Polish Parliament for 25 years, that I do not know the opponents of Polish miners or Polish mining, also among those who have comments on this law and had comments on many previous ones. Here the divisions are different: on those who want to draw as much from the public money as possible and more for themselves than for these miners and mining, and on those who care about Polish public finances. I think the division is that there are people here who, not only their own, but also their own environment, the industry, which can be considered more important than the general interest, than the business of an inefficient man or an inefficient family who doesn't know whether or not, because not only today, when there are such high prices, also earlier. Quit heating gas and go back to coal. But, as one of the older ladies has told me lately, it is also a dilemma to buy expensive Polish coal without a queue, or to stand in line for many hours behind Russian coal. There is no doubt that not now, but for at least two decades there has been a major, necessary and necessary transformation, an energy transformation, all over the world, but especially in Europe. Several tens of thousands of Poles and Poles die annually due to the ruined climate. We should divide into those who are for life, and those who are for life. If they were like that at all. What's behind the death? Well, I don't think anyone's in favour of people dying, not just because of the pandemic, but because of the climate. The transformation must not touch hard coal mining, brown coal, of course, also. Therefore, a fair law supporting the transformation process is needed. Unfortunately, this one's not fair. And from the very beginning... For example, if we consider the authorship. I mean, honest in the sense of treating each other fairly, that's what I'm talking about. If we have nothing to hide, if we have the right and honest intentions, then we don't hide behind someone's back. I ask what the government's intentions are, that it hides behind the back of its Members. Because it's not a parliamentary bill. I have already said, I have 25 years of experience, I do not know such Members who will write a bill that will work effectively, comprehensively, systematically for 10 years and which will cost 30 billion PLN of public money. That's not gonna happen. And hiding behind the back of Members in this case is not fair and cannot build credibility on our side, first of all. Secondly, it suggests that someone wants to take off their responsibility, not just the financial one, not just the political one, but also the legal one, if something in the future, in a year, two years or 10 years goes wrong. So the very beginning, the first beginning, the question of authorship, causes us not to vote in favour of such a law. This does not build credibility. How do we add that there is no, or in connection with, what is necessary, notification that no one here represents what is absolutely fundamental, i.e. a schedule for power reduction... Because here is a schedule, but paying, financing, giving IVs, passing again from the Polish family, from the Polish shoemaker or construction worker to the miner of money. And that's not what this is all about, it's about transformations, it's about honest transformations, which will give us the chance, in an evolutionary process, to limit mining, to move people from mining to work outside of mining, just as it was done in agriculture, where it has moved in a process that has already been going on for three decades, people from agricultural work, so that they don't pat poverty there, to other industries. There are also no credible, fair, transparent and transparent rules for financing this. Again, we are dealing with something that we talked about earlier, with the budget law, which is the transfer of public funds from the budget to the non-budget sphere. I asked in committee if you were expecting the government to report annually to the Sejm on the results of the implementation of this law. The answer was negative. Well, how can we believe you if you don't even want to report 30 billion zlotys, and this year, if the bill comes into force and probably comes into force, over 6 billion... You don't talk. No, because I don't. This is a fundamental element of credibility. It's transparent, it's clear what I did with the money, and what the effect is. It's about the efficiency of the issue, not just the legality of it. Summa summarum, so as not to get divorced, because, as I pointed out at the beginning, a lot, or actually everything has been said, I would like to say, with pain As I said, transformation is necessary, so it is also necessary to have statutory equipment That you did everything you could with this bill so you wouldn't find support for it. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u350	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Jerzy Czerwinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! You may not even have to correct a few things, but you will remember. Speaking of agricultural transformation, it seems that the idol of this side of the room, Prof. Balcerowicz, has begun it. Until now, some of the environments are still transforming. I feel sorry for them. I would prefer that such professionals, not agriculture, not industry, not mining, not any other field. The head of the climate committee, Senator Gawłowski mentioned the shipyards here. What is the date of the liquidation of the Szczecin shipyard, close to you? On the basis of the above, the Commission Yes? Great. And who couldn't or wouldn't help them then? And then who brought the investor from Qatar, in quotes, or with a cold? Do you have memory, amnesia? Great. Ladies and gentlemen, you've already shown how you rule, what kind of professionals you are. Someone here said he couldn't support this bill because he couldn't. Because he didn't find a real reason. There's been talk of honesty. Laws are supposed to be effective. Honesty is in the approach of those who are their authors. If the laws are effective, they will meet social needs, unfortunately in one way or another limited by the European Union, then we will be able to believe that those who have produced, formulated, adopted, are honest people because they have acted for the benefit of the general public. And that's how it's gonna be in this case. Attempts to accuse us of dishonesty here, in a word, I find it far inappropriate, but I leave this to the judgment of those who listen to us. And then there's the basic issue. Actually, that's what you'd have to do at first. How is it that 2 Senate committees Theoretically, this is possible, of course, and they come to different conclusions? One of them, I would call it, industry, professional, the Committee on National Economy and Innovation, wants to improve the bill in a few threads and introduces the amendments suggested by the legislator. The second committee, extraordinary, monolithic, in terms of composition, proposes that the bill be rejected. And it's not the first time he's done it, I've noticed it before. What should be the role of an emergency committee that deals with a lot of things? It is addressed by laws from many areas just so that a motion for rejection is made. I'm saying it with all my responsibility. And then, with the personal advantage of this committee, the joint committee's proposal will also be a motion for rejection. Yes? So the question is, why? The answer is simple: to cause social unrest. If, God forbid, this motion had passed, these representatives, God forbid, would have gone to Silesia and said: please, you have signed a social agreement with the government, and they have no money for it, they want to lie to you. That's what this is all about. This fascia comes out in that uniform you're sewing. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not about anxiety, I would call it current, about undermining the credibility of the government, but also going further. After all, if there is no such restructuring, if the law in this form is not passed, then sooner or later, as has been said, it will collapse in Silesia. Is that it? Is that what this is about? The worse the better? That's what I'm talking about. Aim close: show that the government is unbelievable because there is no money And they're like, "Oh, yeah, . which should be used for restructuring. And the target goes on. Ladies and gentlemen, we shouldn't agree to this. I address those who want the good of mining, the good of people living in Silesia, the good of the entire Polish society, because it affects not only Silesia. This isn't just about those 400,000 people who, in a sense, depend on mining, working with mines. This is also a question of energy security. The choice is simple: either the rejection of this law, I hope it will not pass in the Sejm, that this application will be rejected, or simply act for the good of mining, for the good of miners, also for security, for normal security. You can't lock the mines and turn out the lights, you just don't do it, the mining guys. Thank you, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u352	Thank you very much, Senator. Before I ask Senator Piecha... I'll be happy to tell the senator about the yard in the cockroaches, because I happen to be a delegate to the city council at the time of the yard's liquidation. Together with the sacred memory, buried in the National Pantheon, Prime Minister Komolovski, together with Sniadek, Buzek and others, we were then with Commissioner Neelie Kroes and I can tell a lot about this. But it's in the clowns, of course, if you were a senator curious. Now I'll ask Senator Wojciech Piecha.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! I am in favour of this bill, which was prepared by a group of Members and recommended by the Ministry. Why is mining a difficult area? In Silesia, especially. There are mining companies, Jastrzębska Spółka Górnicza, Polish Mining Group, Tauron Extraction and additionally Węglokoks Country, which has only 1 mine. Let's take a historic approach to that. It was the last year of socialism in Poland in 1989. 188 million tons of coal were mined. Right now. Here's the data from 2020. This is 52 million 945 thousand tons. The descent from 180 million tons to 52 million tons has been implemented over these 30 years. Since 2011, because there's data here too... In 2011, we still had 76 million t, i.e. for 10 years we went down 23.3 million t. So I don't see any obstacles to this trend. The mines have their own life and each mine has a certain duration of operation, a time of coal extraction. It's like people. It's born, it's functional, then it dies. That's the way it is, unfortunately. But in order to prevent some social collapse in Silesia, we should spread this process over time. 'Cause you could lock everything up in a year and 75,000 people wouldn't have jobs ready. And we need to prepare for that, we need to encourage businessmen, encourage investors to invest in Silesia. It's got to be timed out, so it makes sense to do it, like this. They did the Germans. They knew that in 2018 the last mine would be liquidated, they paid for their mining, although they were inefficient and devoured huge money. They made sense and avoided social tensions that would arise during some sudden collapse of coal companies. The English approached the restructuring of the mining industry a little differently, because they did it in two years, Prime Minister Thatcher in 1984 and in 1985 practically eliminated its mining and so far it has been hiccuping, because these social tensions were very, very big. I can still give the data on the structure of employment here, because this structure of employment has changed in 10 years. In 2011, 115,000 people were still working in mining, and at the moment this is 75,000, so we're getting out of this job. Around-miner companies that invested in their machinery park... Between 2015 and 2016 there was again an economic situation for coal, even in the press articles were published asking why we do not extract more, because coal is more expensive and we could earn on it. Unfortunately, this is not the case in mining, it is deep-sea mining, and the entrance to some deck or building a level takes 5 and 7 years, while cutting the wall is 2 years. We have so many mining crews in the mines that are mining coal, and we can't maneuver it so that in one year we'll be running three walls, and in the second year we'll have five walls, because unfortunately we won't have enough professionals to handle it. I am in favour of making this 28 billion PLN... This is a big sum, everyone knows it's a big sum, but this 28 billion PLN will allow these mining companies to look to the future normally, because right now they don't know if the price of coal is about to collapse on world markets. We're not players in these big markets. Dominating China, India, Australia, Indonesia, there mining is a little bit different, there mining is based on open-air mining, there you can turn off the excavator and wait a month, 2 months until prices rise, see: oh, there's demand, then we'll fire up this digger and catch up. Unfortunately, we have deep-sea mines, and we work seven days a week in these deep-sea mines, there's no day for anyone to be in the mine. On Saturday it's even 1/3 of the crew, a little less on Sunday. That's how it's done. There's a lot of crappy words in here that there's gonna be scams because it's 28 billion zlotys. After all, we've got NIK, we've got servants, we've got the D.A.'s office, and these services work, and they work in mining, too, so you don't have to worry about that. They should only be afraid of dishonests. I stress once again that I am in favour of this bill, and I want the High Senate to accept it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u354	Thank you very much, senator. Senator Dorota Tobiszowska will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u355	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr. Director General! Dear High Senate! To fit in time, because it's defined, I'll say yes. In the first place, we have adopted, ladies and gentlemen, a program to move away from coal, which means the elimination of a large industry focused on a fairly small area of one voivodship. That's one thing. Mining municipalities, among others. such as Ruda Śląska, Bieruń, Lędzień must face the rapid recovery of a large number of jobs in a relatively short period of time. That's two. The European Union's energy policy, ladies and gentlemen, and the dependence on Russia, have made coal today the only cheaper source of energy. This is all the more justified by the time-shared liquidation. The main factor affecting the price of energy... We have to remember that carbon is CO2, which has historically the highest values, that is over 80 euros per tonne. It's just an introduction. The bill, the High Senate, is a parliamentary project and is in line with the pre-notification proposal and the notification currently being prepared. The government realises that I think so, and what I heard at the meeting of the economic committee clearly indicates that elements such as the waiver of liabilities to the CSOs or PFRON, or the system of subsidies, are public aid. Action is therefore being taken to approve this aid as authorised by the European Commission. The aim of the Act is to achieve the climate targets adopted by Poland in the perspective of 2050 by gradually losing production in coal mines. Such assumptions are determined, among others. the time needed to carry out investments, alternative energy sources, ensure national energy security and socially acceptable transformation of the mining regions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to add to my statement, without pity as to the fact that I am Silesian and represent the mining industry... No, that's not it. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have a degraded environment in Silesia. Roads, mining damages, etc., etc. I draw this attention to the High Senate. And I will ask you to lean on this bill because we are really dealing with the possibility of uncontrolled job losses and uncontrolled bankruptcy of mining companies. There's a real threat of a civilizational Silesia collapse. Words have come out here. Which I'm going to refer to a little bit, don't cheat the miners. Those are very serious words. They weren't directed at me, but they fell from that platform. And I'd like to say that when I work in a mine, I know how it's done there. There are union organizations that keep their crew informed. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we all know what is happening in the European Union, what is the pressure on the restrictions on the extraction of hard coal. Really and the miners, and employees of these 3 entities, but also in general the entire mining industry in Poland are well aware of what is at stake, only about the time space and the financial resources that are needed for this purpose. So, speaking from this pulpit, don't sell illusions to miners... Ladies and gentlemen, miners have no delusions. They're aware that we're walking away from coal. It's about time, it's about the perspective of time. And why it has to be like this, I know. And such words are, I think, very hurtful to people who sit in the High Senate and represent the mining industry as well. And, ladies and gentlemen, at the end, I do not know if the state who spoke here, among other things. Mr Senator Szejnfeld is aware of the number employees we speak. Because the country with so much lightness you say: change your mind, some new jobs for these miners and these workers need to be given. So I want to draw attention to this, and I want these numbers to die here. The Polish Górnicza Group consists of about 36 thousand employees plus these 2 entities referred to in the draft law "Węglokoks Kraj SA" and "Tauron Wyborcji SA" also have several thousand. We're talking more than 42,000 people. Ladies and gentlemen, so much work in these 3 entities. So if someone speaks from this speaker, change your mind just to make it so easy, then I'm just paying attention to the fact that they're over 42,000 employees. I will ask the High Senate that the senators and senators lean on this bill because for the degraded Silesia, which was needed Poland, so to speak, the whole life, it is necessary. And why, I already told you. And before that, as rapporteur, and now as Senator of Silesian land. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u356	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Gawłowski will speak. Five minutes.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Before you can explain this to the senator, I'm gonna make two sentences public. Indeed, shipyards fell in 2009. And the result and result of this bankruptcy was that... they had previously received illegal public aid from the government. And then he ran the PiS. And he did exactly what you want to do today with the miners, which means the shipyards got the money to sustain production, and the European Commission thought it was illegal public aid, demanded the refund of the money directly from the shipyards and the shipyards went bankrupt. That's exactly what we're warning you about. You want to go the exact same way, i.e. today give money, because actually this tax etc. will be suspended, but 6 billion PLN will not be suspended, they will go immediately after the signing of this law, so public aid will be granted. The European Commission will start proceedings against Poland for the granting of unlawful State aid and the public aid will have to be reimbursed by the companies. These three coal companies won't have any money. What's gonna happen? Well, there will be an uncontrollable bankruptcy. That's exactly what you're after. That's exactly what's gonna happen. You don't have to be a prophet to see it today, it's already happened in Poland. And that's what I'm warning you about. I'm following you, and I'm saying you're cheating the miners. And I'm going to say it again, because that's exactly the dimension. That's what you want to do. What you're doing is a disaster. And if you care so much today... I would like to remind you that over 6 years you rule in Poland. Six years! There were four miners, names changed about every year, different things they said. And yet you haven't done a simple thing about notification of the entire restructuring process related to mining. The money is 6 billion. I was asking around the budget today where the money was. Where's the $6 billion? I have in front of me information about the draft budget for 2022, part 48 of the economy with fossil deposits. That document is... I know you probably read it on the industry committee, too. I assume so. And there's an example. such item: Mine of Sulfur Machów S.A. in liquidation of 3 million 200 thousand. It's in the budget. That kind of information is in the budget. I could read other, more serious positions, but I'd like to replace these... [[Talking in the O.R.]] There are other, more serious amounts, but quite consciously points to the amount of 3 million 200 thousand, because, ladies and gentlemen, these 6 billion are not here. There aren't six billion. There are no 6 billion to go to the restructuring of these 3 companies. So how are you gonna give them the money? They're gone, Mr. Member, they're gone. Did you make an amendment when you were working on the budget? He didn't. [[Talking in the O.R.]] When I asked them what they wanted to cover this funding, I heard from some kind of bond, that something was gonna move out there, and so on. What's this? It's a sandbox. Or the state budget? This is fun. Or a serious debate about 40 or 70,000 people? Is that how you treat them? It's not in the budget. Is this how you treat these people? Senator, is this how you treat them? It's not in the budget, and you come with a bill that is against European law, which will only cause disaster in Silesia. Is that what you wish these people? Is that what you wish them? Really? Is that all you got? The Fourth Minister... The director may be the same, which is why he's nodding his head. The fourth minister in your government... You haven't been able to make a notification in six years? Really? Six years and you don't have that ability, can't you? You are criticizing the European Union's climate policy. But three months ago, Prime Minister Morawiecki agreed to tighten up climate policy. Change the Prime Minister if you don't like it. Be consistent in something. Don't tell me, don't cheat. And you cheat people. It just got in your blood. I know you're going to church on Sunday, you're confessing, and you think that's enough. Well, it's not enough. It'll all be written down. And those facts I'm talking about today will be revealed just like those with these shipyards. Public aid was granted under the PiS government, then its reimbursement in connection with the European Commission's decision, the shipyards had to pay it back, but they had nothing to do with it and went bankrupt. No investor in Kuwait really wanted to come... [[Timer signal]] ...or any other part of the world. For these mines He won't come either. I'm afraid so. And it's a drama. And you're responsible for this drama. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u358	Thank you very much, Senator. Please take the floor of Senator Bogusława Orzechowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u359	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! First I listened in the room, but now I'm here to tell you what I think. Fact: 6 years of government in Poland. And what was possible was rebuilt. What else can be saved will be saved. The senator himself said that the aid from the PiS government to the yard was, and in your governments, the yard was liquidated. [[... Case, Senator.]] As far as mining is concerned, we're doing everything we can to save the mines. And you say you want these mines destroyed. Congratulations on your approach. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u360	Thank you very much, Senator. That was the last speech. For the sake of order, I inform you that the senators: Aleksander Szwed, Mariusz Gromko, Wojciech Nealny, Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, Józef Łyczak and Wadim Tyszkiewicz presented their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. In the discussion, the senators did not make legislative proposals, but the committees made different proposals. I ask the Extraordinary Commission for Climate Affairs and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation to respond to the proposals put forward and to prepare a joint report. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u361	Thank you. Message one. The meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions on the first reading of the draft law amending the Law of Civil Procedure Message two. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finances on the examination of requests submitted at the 35th Senate meeting to the Budget Law for 2022 will take place tomorrow, 12 January, at 8.30 a.m. in room 217. Message three. The joint meeting of the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Extraordinary Committee on Climate Affairs will be held tomorrow at 8.30 a.m. in rooms 176 and 179 at the thirtieth Senate meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-01-11-senat-35-1.u362	Thank you very much. I'll have a recess by 10:00 tomorrow. [[Meeting adjourned at 22 minutes 19]]
