ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u1	I'm opening a sitting. [[Marshal hits Marshal's staff three times.]] I would like to call on the secretaries of today's deliberations Aleksandra Gajewska, Daniel Milewski, Franciszek Sterczewski and Aleksandra Szczudło. In the first part of the session, the secretaries will be Alexander Szczudło and Daniel Milewski. The minutes and lists of speakers will be led by Aleksandra Szczudło and Aleksandra Gajewska. I consider the minutes of the 54th session of the Sejm to be accepted. The Council of Ministers submitted a draft act on crowdfunding for economic projects and assistance to borrowers, print No 2269. Therefore, pursuant to Article. 95b of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point including the first reading of this draft law. The competent bodies have submitted draft laws: - amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, - on an additional annual financial contribution for pensioners and pensioners in 2022, together with the self-correction. The designs are 2263 and 2270 and 2270-A respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with points covering the first reading of these draft laws. The Council of Ministers has submitted a draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory and certain other laws, print No 2290. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the first reading of this project. In this case, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 4 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The committee responsible has submitted a report on the government draft law amending certain laws on the financing of housing programmes, print No 2187. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda by a point covering the examination of this report. The competent committees have submitted reports on draft laws: - amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws and protecting the independence of judges and the special rules of criminal and disciplinary liability of judges, - amending the Act on the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises in Poland, - amending the Act on the national system of producer records, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications and certain other laws, - on the amendment of the law - Construction law and certain other laws, - about changing the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wroclaw. The reports shall be printed, respectively, 2271, 2277, 2280, 2284, 2279 and 2289. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Seniors Convention, I decided to supplement the agenda with items covering the examination of these reports. In these cases, I propose that the Sejm agree to shorten the deadline referred to in Article. Article 44 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The Sejm Bureau proposes that the Sejm should be heard in discussions: - at first reading of the draft law amending the Constitution of the Republic of Poland - 10-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and 5-minute statements on behalf of the circles, - on the committee's report on the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court and the Act on the Protection of the Independence of the Judges and the Special Principles of Criminal and Disciplinary Liability of Judges, 7 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 3 minutes' statements on behalf of the wheels, - at first reading of the draft resolution amending the Rules of Procedure of the Polish Sejm, 3-minute statements on behalf of clubs and circles, - on the other items on the agenda, five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the wheels. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. I would like to inform you that the Seniors' Convention unanimously gave an opinion on the proposal to consider at the current meeting information on the construction of the Central Communication Port, together with the railway investments and the accompanying threat of expropriation in several voivodships, which was proposed by the Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition - Civic Platform, Modern, Polish Initiative and Greens. The items on the agenda of the current sitting will be considered in accordance with the order of opinion of the Sejm Bureau and the Senior Convention. Information on this matter, as well as the list of laws that the Senate adopted without amendments, are available in the Sejm Information System. I ask the Secretary to read the messages.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u2	I would like to inform you that the following Commission meetings will be held today: - at 3 p.m. 10.30 - for Special Services; Education, Science and Youth; Ethics of Members; Public Finance together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Health, - at 3 p.m. 11 - for the European Union; Maritime Affairs and Inland Navigation jointly with the Committee on the Protection of the Environment, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Committee on the Territorial Government and Regional Policy, - at 3 p.m. 11.30 - Infrastructure, - at 3 p.m. 12 - Public Finances, - at 3 p.m. 13 - Digitalisation, Innovation and Modern Technologies, and the European Union's Committee on Affairs together with the Committee on Foreign Affairs, - at 3 p.m. 13.30 - Senior policy together with the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy, - at 3 p.m. 14 - Economics and Development jointly with the Committee on Infrastructure, - at 3 p.m. 2.30 - Health, - at 3 p.m. 15 - The Territorial Government and Regional Policy, - at 3 p.m. 16 - National Defence and the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, - at 3 p.m. 17 - Environmental Protection, Natural Resources and Forestry and the Health Commission. The following parliamentary teams will also be held today: - at 3 p.m. 13 - Parliamentary Panel on Promotion of Bleeding, Donation of Bone Spa and Transplantology, - at 3 p.m. 13 - Parliamentary Panel on the route S7 in Małopolska, - at 3 p.m. 15 - Parliamentary Panel on Social Associations of the Member States. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u3	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, before we proceed to the formal proposals, I would like to welcome Mrs Olena Kondratiuk, Vice-President of the Supreme Council of Ukraine, who is visiting Warsaw. [[Members get up, long-term applause]] Welcome very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we have formal requests. Please, Mr Adam Szłapka, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u4	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! There's been some new data. 4 billion is the profit for the first quarter of PGNiG. Poles paid 600% for it. higher for gas. Orlen - 3 billion. Who's paying for this? Poles pay for it. [[But these are current questions tomorrow, not today.]] And every day, gas stations, 7:30 a.m. for fuel, they think about the palaces of Obajtka, about the compensation of Dorota Kani, about the supervisory boards of people like Mr Sobolewski's wife. You prey on Poles. You prey on Poles, Prime Minister. There's no Prime Minister. And I'm asking you to take a break... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I am filing a formal request for a recess, and I ask that Minister Jacek Sasin prepare to... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie.]] ...and he told me what his plan was to share this food with Poles. And for the liquidation of Lotus, many of you will be in prison. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u5	You're welcome. Prime Minister Jacek Sasin has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u6	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr. Speaker! I would ask you to stop lying in this House, the High House. [[It's for the Prime Minister.]] This High House deserves the truth. And the truth is, Orlen is making profits today mainly from foreign markets. Orlen, this is... [[Better than Norway.]] ... Orlen is an international concern today. Orlen is today an international concern that operates in many markets. We act in a forward-looking way... [[Then let him share it with the Poles.]] ...we are building Polish economic power and today we can make profits in foreign markets. On the other hand, in Poland today, Mr President - I inform you - you should know this - thanks to the actions that the government has taken, the actions that have been reduced to an absolute minimum in the framework of the anti-inflationary shield, all the charges on fuel prices and other energy raw materials, we have reduced to the minimum required by the European Union VAT and excise duty, thanks to the fact that Orlen has also minimized... [[Who's lying here?]] ...your margins, we have the cheapest fuel in Europe. [[Applause]] [[On billboards.]] Today, if we compare... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You say that today a litre of gasoline in Poland costs more than 7 PLN. Yes, it is very expensive, but in many European countries the price of fuel per zloty exceeds 11 zlotys - exceeds 11 zlotys. We have the cheapest fuel. It's very expensive. It is very expensive, but it is not the fault of either Orlen or the government or anyone in Poland. And you know it, but you prey on it because you want to build your political capital on it. Don't do this. Today it is the fault of the high price of energy raw materials. And this is because you, as your political formation and your leader Donald Tusk, have allowed for years to make Europe dependent on Russia... [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: scandal!]] [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] ...for years you let Putin scooter in Poland and Europe. And today we're getting results. This is your fault, this is the legacy of your governments, this is the legacy of your politics, and don't try to burden anyone with this today. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u7	You're welcome... [[Voice from the room: You're too late...]] Mr President, please respect that we have a guest who is listening to the proceedings. At least let's show a little seriousness, okay? A little serious. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] You're welcome... [[And this isn't III B today?]] Don't yell from this place. Don't yell. [[I'm not screaming, you're screaming.]] Please, Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left. Formal conclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u8	On behalf of the Left, I request a break and a new item on the agenda: the Prime Minister's information about the prices and the ineffectiveness of the tarmac. Because, Prime Minister, something doesn't work very well here. You've cut your VAT, but there's practically no sign of it in many stores at lower prices. And it's not just the outcome of the war. We were talking about gasoline - 7.32 these are prices today, in the morning. And it's not just the result of the war, because the fuel prices at the stations have increased faster than the price of a barrel of oil on the world markets. So it's time to really call Mr. Obajtka on the rug and ask him about the actual margin height. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in a real danger of a margin-price spiral because corporations have taken advantage of the opportunity and imposed high margins. Some brazenly boast of it. These profits are made at the expense of people. For profits, whether it's Chairman of Obajtka or others, millions of Poles in shops, at the register, are also throwing themselves at the profits of banks. And unfortunately, we've heard it from the minister lately, and you're not doing anything about it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister, somebody's making you look bad. Prime Minister, half poor that you, but also millions of Poles.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u9	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u10	If you keep chickening out of big business, you'll just fix the cost. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u11	Thank you, sir. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. There you go. [[Voice in the courtroom: Marshal, opposing motion.]] For what? [[Voice from the room: To this conclusion.]] And what was the conclusion? [[Voice from the room: About a break.]] But we cannot vote on this proposal now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u12	Dear Marshal! Prime Minister! It's not about the fuel, it's about the electricity this time. Ladies and gentlemen! Prime Minister! Poles and Polish companies pay more and more electricity bills every day. Price increases are galloping. For seven years, governments have been blocking renewable energy from windmills. Over the last 7 years, you have prevented Poles from using renewable energy (Applause), cheap renewable energy. In the last two months, you've blocked the way solar energy is accounted for. My question is addressed to your marshal. [[The current questions are due tomorrow.]] Let the government finally propose how it intends to stabilise the price of energy. When will the projects of the Polish People's Party - the Polish Coalition, which we have reported, concerning the unblocking of windmills on land and good solutions (The Bell) regarding renewable energy from the sun be implemented?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u13	Thank you, sir. Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u14	Your marshal, your request, the question is, when will this happen? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u15	Mr President, we are not at the point: questions, but at the point: formal proposals. Please, Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. Please. [[Will someone answer me?]] These are not questions, sir, but formal proposals.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u16	Mrs. Marshal! Prime Minister! Today we demand here, in the Polish Parliament, a discussion about the energy security of our country. As you may presume to say, you have no gas contract at all to fill out Baltic Pipe. There is also no coal in Poland, as it turns out, which heating plants, housing cooperatives or individuals could buy for winter due to the fear that it will not be at all or will be more expensive in winter. Today, eco peas cost $2.5,000. PLN per ton. Do you realize that Poles will not be able to keep their apartment warm and will freeze in winter in their homes if the government does not solve this problem today? Treasury companies, perhaps Orlen, Minister, should already be importing coal from other directions into the country today (the bell).
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u17	Thank you very much, Member. Of course it wasn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u18	Tell us how you want to ensure the country's energy security. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u19	Madame, it was not a formal proposal again, you know that, right? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] And what's that? And what was the formal conclusion? No. We are at the point: formal proposals. [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: A break.]] No, there has been no proposal, Madame. Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, PPS - a formal proposal, I hope. Please. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion...]] What was the formal request for? This was not a formal proposal, Madame. And Mrs Hennig-Kloska knows that very well because she did not report it. She made a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u20	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! You're expecting a formal application. There he is. This is an application under Article. 184 to change the way the discussion is conducted... [[We're not at the point of discussion.]] ...in such a way that we return to the conclusion and subject previously signaled, but in such a twisted way interpreted by Deputy Prime Minister Sasin. Prime Minister! We demand a discussion about the lack of competitiveness of the Polish economy. [[The rules are in effect.]] Because what happens in the fuel sector is duplicated in the banking sector. Short profits are noted not only by companies such as PGNiG or Orlen, but also by PKO BP, Pekao SA or PZU. This is the money that comes out of the pockets of Poles, this is the money that wrongly belongs to all these companies. The idea is to stop the wave of costs, and one method is to increase the competitiveness (Dawn) of the Polish economy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u21	Thank you, sir. Mr. President, we are not... [[Voice in the courtroom: Negative.]] Mr President, we are not having any discussion at the moment, we are on formal proposals, and therefore what you have tabled is not a formal proposal. I repeat... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] No, you reported... [[It's about changing the way.]] ...to change the way you drive. We are not at the discussion, sir. Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u22	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Prime Minister! Minister Sasin! I wanted to say that this government doesn't exactly have an impact on fuel, because your government has adopted, among other things. fuel fee, issue fee and it is your government that has also approved a reduction in VAT for six months, which means by the end of July, which means that on August 1, the fuel will not be after 7,30, only after about 9 PLN, if of course the price will be constant. Ladies and gentlemen! Your Marshals have a Confederate law called Cheap Fuel. If cheap fuel had been introduced, this bill would have been abolished, and the price of gasoline, the price of oil would have fallen by about a zloty. This is the bill that lies, waiting. I am requesting that the deliberations be supplemented by this law. And after the statements of the opposition, I see that you will support her, and I am very pleased. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u23	Thank you. The order has been set, sir. There was a meeting of the Convention, and therefore this is not a formal proposal. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr President, there was a meeting of the Convention and this was discussed at the Convention meeting. Order is established, so you can't file such a motion. There you go, Mr Janusz Kowalski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u24	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Let's talk about prices. Production of 1 MWh, for example at the Turów power plant, costs PLN 140-150. [[Voice from the room: Formal conclusion.]] [[Voice from the room: Now let's talk.]] For this 1 MWh one CO emission allowance needs to be purchased If we want to talk seriously, ladies and gentlemen, I call on the honourable opposition to withdraw its position of 9 December 2021 and support the United Right to reduce the biggest parataxes imposed on Polish energy and warmth. The price of energy per day would drop by 25-30%. This paratax is the EU's emissions trading system. [[Speech outside the microphone]] Ladies and gentlemen! The Polish economy will lose PLN 25 billion for this year alone. [[Marshal, pay attention.]] [[Voice from the hall: He is from Solidarna Polska, he is more important than the President.]] I repeat: PLN 25 billion from Polish companies (The Bell) will be transferred abroad.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u25	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u26	You want lower prices? Help us reduce this tax. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u27	Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, none of these proposals except the first one that was consummated by Prime Minister Sasin's speech was a formal proposal. That concludes the formal proposals. We proceed with the examination of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual cash benefits for pensioners (prints No 2270 and No 2270-A). Before I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the justification for the bill, I will announce a three-minute break. All of you who are interested in this point should remain, while the others, I would like to ask you to hold conversations in circles. Three minutes off. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 10 mins 28 hours 10 min 30]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u28	I'm reopening the session. We continue to consider item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Mr Stanisław Swed to present the reasons for the bill. I would very much like to ask Members of the House to silence their discussions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u29	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I present another draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual financial provision for pensioners and pensioners, print no. 2270, along with the self-correction, i.e. the so-called project. additional benefit in the form of a 14th pension. It is a project expected by a number of pensioners who have already benefited from one additional benefit, which was the thirteenth pension paid in April. Now we propose another solution, so-called. The 14th pension, which was also paid last year. The additional annual cash benefit will be the lowest pension this year, which is PLN 1334,88 and will be paid on similar terms as the thirteenth pension. The only change in the 13th pension in relation to the 14th pension will be that we will set a limit to the amount of PLN 2900 gross. To this amount, all eligible persons will be able to benefit from the full amount of the additional benefit. If someone exceeds this limit, the so-called limit will be applied. the mechanism of the zloty for the zloty, i.e. the pension will be reduced in so far as this amount is exceeded. We accepted the rule that the lowest payment would be at the level of PLN 50. We estimate that most of the over 9600 000 will benefit from this right. pensioners who are entitled to this benefit. Persons who do not benefit from this additional benefit are persons whose pension exceeds the amount of PLN 4188.44. As in the case of the thirteenth pension, in the case of the fourteenth pension, there will be the same principle that no application will be required, the pension will be paid in pension and, of course, within the same deadlines. We have introduced a solution - it is also related to the self-correction - that we want to start paying this benefit in August and September. The first date for payment of the benefit would be August 25th, which is why we introduced an amendment which entitles all persons who acquire pension rights or other benefits of the pension scheme as of August 24th. So all those who will be entitled on that day will benefit from the 14th pension. What is still important is, of course, that both the 13th and the 14th pensions are exempt from all charges. There is also a very important change in the absence of income tax on pensions, in this case from the fourteenth pension, i.e. an additional benefit. For this reason, if we are talking about the gross amount of PLN 1334, it will be an amount of PLN 1218 without 2 gr. So this amount is going to be much higher here, too, because we're not going to charge tax. It is worth recalling that this solution which we are introducing, as I said, together with 13 pensions will significantly improve the situation of people who are in a more difficult situation - I am talking about pensioners. As far as costs are concerned, we expect that the cost of the 14th pension will be PLN 11.4 billion. Let me remind you that the cost of the 13th pension was over PLN 13 billion. Including these two benefits, from the thirteenth pension and the fourteenth pension, this year almost PLN 25 billion will be paid to our pensioners. If we add to that, the valorization, which this year was higher than the rules were supposed to be, because we increased the wage growth rate to 63%. - this amount was over 18 billion - including those benefits, i.e. the thirteenth pension, 14th pension and valorization, almost 43 billion PLN will be paid to our pensioners this year. The benefit will be paid from the Solidarity Fund. We have secured funds, the Solidarity Fund was co-financed from the state budget last year, which means there is no risk of payment. Returning to my first information on this benefit: we estimate that it will benefit in full over 7700 thousand. eligible. The second part, about 1300 thousand. people are people who will benefit from the mechanism of the zloty for the zloty. More than 500 people will not benefit from this right. Most people who collect pension benefits will benefit from this right. Which is also important, as I said, there will be no deductions or other charges for this. It is worth noting that support for pensioners and pensioners has also been significant in recent years. This year, together, as I said, it will be almost 43 billion PLN, but it is also worth to give the data from previous years, because already there was a 13th pension and last year also a 14th pension. In 2021 it was over PLN 33 billion. Now there's a significant increase. If we compare the last 3 years, 2019-2022, it will turn out that we are providing support for pensioners and pensioners. total over PLN 116 billion. I think this is the right direction that we have taken to improve the situation of pensioners and pensioners, above all those who are in a more difficult financial situation. As I said, the benefit is very popular among pensioners, because an additional cash injection, especially when we have high inflation, will be very useful. High Izbo! When presenting the bill on the next additional annual payment to pensioners in 2022, I request that this project be adopted together with the self-correction so that we can implement it as soon as possible and that by the end of August, 25 August, the first payment can already be made to our pensioners and pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u30	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice will be the first to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u31	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual financial provision for pensioners, seym prints No 2270 and 2270-A. The family, ladies and gentlemen, is invariably at the heart of the Law and Justice, and its happiness is the most important value and goal to achieve, as is the case with various actions. The family are also seniors, therefore, since taking responsibility for the rule of law and justice, special attention has been given to seniors. We restored the earlier retirement age after it was extended by the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party. We systematically increase the amount of pension benefit. We make sure that these benefits are properly valued, not by PLN 2-3. We have introduced a legally guaranteed 13th pension for our seniors and we are giving another year in a row an additional benefit of 14th pension. All so that those who deserve special respect, support and care can live a decent life and pursue their plans in the fall of life. For the social policy of the State, it is important to protect senior citizens from poverty and social exclusion, and the measures taken by the government are therefore aimed at improving the financial situation of pensioners and pensioners, including in particular those benefiting from low pensions. Due to the armed conflict in Ukraine, prices of consumer goods and services have increased. It affected all Polish citizens, but most people feel it is the lowest people, including pensioners and pensioners. For this reason, we want to relieve seniors and help them to raise inflation, which is harder for them to cope with than active groups. Therefore, we propose that the additional pension, which is the 14th pension, should be paid earlier than before. Law and Justice is the first government to care so comprehensively for seniors. We are creating systemic solutions to support this group, in need of special interest, specific financial support. We want Polish seniors to be able to carry out their plans and intentions in the fall of life. Our predecessors spent around 3.5 billion a year for seniors. We, ladies and gentlemen, spend over 43 billion in 2022. The difference is obvious. For the thirteenth pension, the government spent about PLN 48 billion between 2019 and 2022. In 2021, 14th pension was paid as another next to 13th supplementary pension. To persons receiving benefits of up to PLN 2900 gross, it was granted at the rate of the lowest pension, i.e. PLN 1250,88 gross, and in the case of persons receiving a benefit above this amount, the principle of zloty per zloty was applied. In 2022, the government for the reasons I have already mentioned, if the law enters into force, will pay the benefit of about 9 million recipients, i.e. approx. 82% total, of which 7700 thousand. people will receive a full pension in the amount of the lowest pension and about 1300 thousand. of a lower amount due to the benefits collected above PLN 2900 per month. The cost of paying the 14th pension in 2022 is PLN 11 400 million. Law and Justice supports the bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u32	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Joann Frydrych, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u33	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition presents the position of the club on the government draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual financial provision for pensioners. The contested bill concerns the payment of another additional annual cash benefit, so-called. 14th pension. Her payout rules are identical to last year's. According to the project, pensioners and pensioners who do not exceed PLN 2900 gross will receive the lowest pension. In the case of persons whose pension exceeds PLN 2900 gross, the additional benefit will be reduced by the difference between the amount of the benefit and the amount of PLN 2900. If the amount of 14 is less than PLN 50, the benefit will not be granted. When analysing this provision, the question arises: Is it a social benefit, depending on the income threshold, or is it really an additional cash benefit? At this point I would like to point out that the level of risk of poverty among seniors in Poland is growing all the time. Despite the 14th pension, the income of the oldest Poles and Poles does not keep up with the cost. I would like to remind you that, under the rule of the Civic Platform, when there was a deflation, i.e. a fall in prices of goods and services, the benefits were subject to a value-added of quota and quota-percent, i.e. pensioners gained more than the increase in prices. The PiS government continued this idea in its term of office, considering it to be good. The 13th pension was also the idea of the Civic Platform. Since you are replicating our proposals, implement the second valorization proposal that President Donald Tusk was talking about in January this year. It concerns September benefit valorisation if inflation exceeds 5%. Assuming inflation reaches 12% ,the value of benefits would be 7%. This is a better solution for pensioners and pensioners. The increased benefits this year will be the basis for valorization in the following years. This is a system solution, predictable, certain, transparent and more favourable than a one-off payment that does not increase monthly benefits. Using such solutions, you rob seniors, you rob them from increasing the basis for valorization. And here's an example. In 12 months, the pensioner would receive a total of PLN 1680 and you want to give him PLN 1338.44. You're stealing from him at PLN 341.56. In the explanatory memorandum of this project we read: The increase in prices of consumer goods and services has affected all Polish citizens, but in particular this increase is felt by the lowest people, including pensioners and pensioners. For the tense budgets of this group of people, inflation may already be more difficult to raise than inflation for the active. So why are you introducing income thresholds? Are seniors who receive a pension above PLN 2900 gross, less expensive touches or not at all? What's it like? The explanatory memorandum further states: Price increases in the country have also accelerated by the economic consequences of the armed conflict in Ukraine. Just to remind you, inflation in Poland reached 4.6% the day before the outbreak of the pandemic. , in many countries of the European Union prices fell and in Poland they grew. It's already been expensive. On the other hand, the day before the outbreak of the armed conflict in Ukraine in January this year inflation in Poland was 8.7% and took fourth place among the countries of the European Union. For the record, the average in the European Union is 5.6%. This inflation that we have today is PiS-inflation, and it's evidence of the failure of the United Right Government. Instead of valorizing pension benefits, the government offers Poles a proverbial plaster for wounds, and for tears abrasion due to galloping inflation announces a 14th pension. Ladies and gentlemen! Another important issue is the source of funding for the 14th pension. Once again, it will be financed by the Solidarity Fund, which has been created for people with disabilities. You're robbing the weakest people again. Will the Solidarity Fund borrow money from the Demographic Reserve Fund? If so, you're robbing future pensioners again, because the first loans from the Demographic Reserve Fund have already been surrendered. The financing of these benefits should be from the Social Insurance Fund. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition requests that this project be directed to further work in the relevant committees. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u34	Thank you very much, Member. And please, Mr Robert Obaz, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u35	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Government's draft law on the next additional annual financial provision for pensioners and pensioners in 2022 is an average solution. Ideas for how to help pensioners, rencistoms are smarter and smarter to accept, and so stupider. This one's acceptable. Ladies and gentlemen, what is the basis for this? Because we give 13, we give 14 pensions, but do pensioners really expect such benefits, in quotes, to help? The forgetfulness that must be given, because there is inflation, which unfortunately is behind President Glapiński, who was definitely late with all the movements that were supposed to protect Poles and Poles from the fact that today we feel inflation at the level - when we go to the store, we look at the basic products - in some places 70%. We've got a vacation ahead of us. Many seniors, seniors want to go on holiday, and it turns out that today the most expensive thing that will consume half of this 14th pension will be to get to the gas station and to refuel, leaving Jelenia Góra, e.g. to Kołobrzeg, because to get there and come back, you have to spend 700 PLN on such a trip. This 1300 PLN - less than 1,200 with a small hook - is what the social minimum was in 2020. What's the minimum social need? For food, for housing, for education, health care, culture, recreation, transport, communication, personal hygiene and other expenses. Is today the minimum social level, defined in 2020 at the level of PLN 1267, the person who lives alone, even has an average pension, able to buy everything? We've got a heating season ahead of us. The heating season, which will be the most affected by pensioners and pensioners today, because the prices of coal in the assemblies have speeded sky high. Pellet prices, eco peas prices are often an increase of 150%. Will this benefit solve this problem? No. The explanatory memorandum states: For the social policy of the state, it is important to protect seniors from poverty and social exclusion. Government-led measures are aimed at improving the financial situation of pensioners and pensioners, including in particular those benefiting from low pensions. Does this 14th pension solve this problem? As a Left, we don't think so. We have presented the whole package set Mon. Safe señorage. These laws were submitted to the marshal's staff and one of them is a pension valorization project. The Prime Minister said that one more valorization would be necessary this year - unfortunately nothing happened. As a Left, we have already submitted a 12% pension valorization project on 20 April. The cost of such valorization is up to PLN 12-15 billion, which is very similar to what we spend today, and this would be a permanent benefit. Today many people, these seniors, who use many things, but most often from health care, go to pharmacies and do not buy drugs. 8% He's leaving without following the prescription. Senior debt is PLN 7.3bn, so the Left, as part of the Safe Senior Package, submitted a draft law on the subject. It's only five zlotys. It's gonna help everyone who can't afford drugs. The state budget will not cost much because these medicines are refunded, the distribution of these funds, the granting of which is refunded, and today it also costs the State. And the last thing that (the bell) is included in the Safe Senior Package is the widow's pension. These solutions are used in Western European countries, but also in the Czech Republic, our close neighbour, Denmark, the UK and Germany. That is why we are appealing - of course we will support this law - but we are appealing for system solutions, solutions that will ensure the safety of all seniors, pensioners, pensioners, pensioners, just to make them feel safe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u36	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Bożena Ironowska, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u37	Dear Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, On behalf of the Polish Coalition - Polish People's Party, the Union of European Democrats and Conservatives, I will present my position on the draft law on additional annual financial provision for pensioners. This solution will be applied to pensions in the general scheme - farmers, uniformed services, bridge pensions, benefits and benefits, social pensions, teachers' pensions, compensation benefits, parental supplementary benefits, the provision of money to civilian blind victims of war activities and invalidity pensions for war and military invalids. In 2022, another additional annual cash benefit will be granted to eligible persons by virtue of this law. It will be paid in full in the case of persons whose basic benefit has not exceeded PLN 2900 before the deduction is made and, if it does, the zloty mechanism for the zloty will be used. The 14th pension will be paid at the rate of the lowest pension applicable from 1 March 2022. The draft law was passed to Parliament by the government without any inter-ministerial arrangements or public consultation, and there is no trace of it on the website of the legislative centre. The criteria adopted by the government raise doubts about the payment of this benefit, both legal doubts and citizens' doubts. I have a question for the government: Why should the only criterion for entitlement to an additional benefit be the amount of the pension received? This raises legitimate concerns for a large proportion of pensioners. Many pensioners believe that this solution is simply unfair. The criterion adopted by the government in this solution is unfair and harms a large proportion of pensioners who worked their entire lives, paid their contributions, and today, if their pension exceeds the amount of PLN 2900, they will receive relatively less, and those who receive pension over PLN 4000 will get nothing. Recently, when we have crazy inflation, neither 13th or 14th pensions will cover the costs of over-sized expenses incurred by seniors, pensioners, and society as a whole. When I talk to pensioners, I hear that they have to give up their private medical visits - that's for sure - buying some goods, giving up services and even giving up buying medicines, because the rent for the apartment, gas often consumes the entire pension. So often mentioned here eco peas - I heard from a retired woman - it already costs 3,000. zł. Once again, I will remind you that the proposal of the Polish People's Party included in our electoral programme, the one that PiS entered into the Polish Deal and in which case he pretended to be his, the one which unfortunately is not implemented, is a pension without tax. Yeah, the retirees are waiting for that. Many times in conversation with pensioners I hear that they do not need 1300 PLN once or twice a year. Just don't take their taxes away from the pensioners, and it's gonna be 12 times 1,300 zlotys. Then these retired people will feel that the government is really helping them and taking care of their interests, and even their decent lives, the basic ones that should provide them with drugs, the housing fee. So, ladies and gentlemen, return to our idea of a tax-free pension. As a coalition of Poland, Polish People's Party... [[It's working, isn't it?]] But it's not being implemented. It's not being implemented. It's... [[It's already here.]] No, ladies and gentlemen, it's not being implemented. [[Never mind, you don't listen to them. It's not.]] We are in favor of thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, and even sixteen pensions, but let it be divided justly. The State, the legislator, should support those who are actually less wealthy, but must apply objective criteria rather than those which the Social Security Office can conveniently determine for itself. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I would remind you to implement our pension project without tax, which is fair to all pensioners. And one more request and appeal: finally take care of your internship pension - people are waiting for it. On behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, the Polish People's Party, I request further work on this project. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u38	Thank you, Member. Please, Mr Artur Dziambor, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u39	Thank you. Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice, you are not helping. Unfortunately, you're not helping those retired people you're leaning down from and who you're telling all kinds of weird stories about how your government is gonna save them. If you really want to help them, just tax them off. If you're gonna help them, you should value those hunger pensions that are fixed. Ladies and gentlemen! For 13 or 14 years, I did my own business. After 35 years of age, each Pole gets a card from the ZUS every once in a while with information about how much has been set aside in his account and what is the forecast pension. I remember getting something like this about two or three years ago, of course eighty or so thousands were put away in my account, and it turns out that I'm going to get a pension of PLN 750. 750 PLN. [[Nobody told you not to pay higher contributions.]] No, it's insolence, which you're now saying is that higher contributions can always be paid to that black hole you're keeping. 750 zloty was my projected retirement, if I put 1,500 zlotys in ZUS every month, if I paid politely all my life to this black hole of yours. This ZUS is an absolutely black hole that needs to be eliminated, and we all know it, but it just doesn't fit in your head to make any change. If you really want to help pensioners, you should not lie to them, like Minister Maląg, who said last week that the 14th pension is the PiS government's inflation method. I commented that my second-degree obesity method was a visit to McDonald's... [[No one asked you...]] ...because that's what it sounded like. What you're doing, printing money and handing it out to pensioners is pro-inflationary, which is why we have this inflation today, which is why we have this cost. And what's gonna happen after that pensioner, that you're gonna throw in a couple hundred zlotys, if that pensioner has to go to the store later and buy bread for 10 zlotys? Nothing after that. You're not helping. You're screwing up, you're blowing up everything we could build, and it's only because you're on the right level in the polls. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you're ruining what could've been ruined. This law must be rejected.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u40	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u41	Nothing to add, nothing to say. Therefore, your marshal, on behalf of the Circle of the Posel Confederation, I am filing a motion to reject this outrageous project at first reading. The Confederation will never agree to bribe Poles with their own money. Power cuts people's wallets. What he pulls out of one pocket then scatters from some virtual helicopter. In this way it creates an impression of charity. God's happiness to all pensioners, but protect us, God, from governments who conduct the policy of bribery of Poles with their own money. Request made. Let's vote against. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u42	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u43	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Circle Polska 2050 Szymon Hołowni on the governmental draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual financial provision for pensioners. High Izbo! This law concerns the establishment of a legal basis for the payment of such an additional benefit. It will include about 9 million beneficiaries according to the government's declaration. Persons who are retired or retired will receive this benefit in whole or in part if at 31 July 2020 the right to benefits or the amount of the benefits collected does not exceed PLN 4188.44. Of course, I think it's no surprise to anyone that pensioners will welcome this witness with joy. It will certainly help them to endure these difficult times in which we live. As far as this bill is concerned, the philosophy of Law and Justice behind it is absolutely not congruent to present times. First of all, it's another extra drop of gasoline on the flame of inflation. Despite the fact that pensioners will receive an additional benefit and therefore it will be additional money on the market, this will lead to another price increase. This means that people will be able to buy even less for the money they receive in the form of pensions. There is another flaw in this kind of activity. These measures do not affect the basis for the valorisation of benefits. This is very important. On the one hand, the government adds gasoline to the fire of inflation and on the other hand, pensions remain at the same level. So after using this benefit, pensioners will have to live for what will be less worthwhile with such high inflation. Despite the 6 years of propaganda of the PiS, which aims to show that pensioners are important to the PiS, there is still a need to pay additional benefits because the situation of pensioners is bad. I ask: Where are the effects of your actions? Minister, either the effects of the action are and do not need to introduce additional benefits, or you are pretending and additional benefits are needed. It's all inconsistent. We have very serious doubts about this direction. Of course, that doesn't solve pension problems. Many of them live in unheated houses, pay the cost of heating in housing cooperatives. The cost of heating, Minister, is at least 2.5,000. for 1 t of eco peas (the bell), or at least 7,5 thousand. zł, when it comes to a medium-heated house. That's what winter's gonna cost. How to cover it with $1,000. Evil? The cost of housing according to the CSO increased by 15% In the last year, that is, before the war began. That's what GUS calculated for mid-April.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u44	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u45	The PiS makes the pension funds that retirees receive less and less. Unfortunately, this witness does not solve systemic problems. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u46	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Joanna Senyszyn, the Polish Socialist Party.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u47	Mrs. Marshal! High Opposite! I don't see any PiS members on the seym table. I present the position of the PPS Parliamentary Circle on the draft law on the so-called. 14th retirement. This year the minimum pension is PLN 1338.44. So-called. The 14th pension is an ordinary election sausage. If you really want to improve the retirement rate, raise the minimum pension to 60%. minimum wage, i.e. up to PLN 1806. And it'd be even fairer to raise it to 2,000. zł, because inflation ate thirteen pensions, and in a moment it will eat fourteen. The government is pretending to be a benefactor for pensioners, and in fact it keeps hundreds of thousands of people in poverty who have worked hard for decades. According to Deputy Prime Minister Sasin, who recently produced and accused others of lying, the cheapest fuel in the European Union is in Poland. That's a presumptuous lie. In Germany, where 1 l of petrol is actually extremely expensive - it costs 2.07 euro - for the minimum wage you buy 765 l of petrol, in the Netherlands - 753 l, in Spain - 564 l, and in Poland only 412 l. Only 346 l can be purchased for the average pension and 183 l of petrol for the minimum. An old, sick man who's worked his whole life won't go to the doctor in his car. If he walks, he'll be very lucky. Can you trust a government where prime ministers, deputy prime ministers and ministers lie all the time? You can't. Therefore, it cannot be believed that this 14th pension is created for the benefit of pensioners. It's just the soaping of the eyes. Of course, the PPS will support the bill, but it should end with lies that other Poles work for pensions. Retired people have earned their own benefits. We have a system with a defined contribution. Retirement is paid out of what was collected during work, so pensioners do not need anybody's favor - they just need justice. Of course, they'd better get... [[Laws and Justice.]] No, Laws and Justice don't need, they just need justice and honesty (the bell), which unfortunately doesn't exist in your ranks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u48	Thank you very much. Now, let's get to the questions. Question time - 1 minute. Let me remind you that we have a limited number of questions because this is the first reading of the project. The first question is asked by Mrs Katarzyna Kotula, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u49	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Yeast, record inflation - we already know that this affects almost everyone, but it is extremely acute, of course, for seniors, according to the GUS data concerning last year, was one of the social groups for which the poverty rate was higher than the average in society and was 8%. I share the view of my colleague, Mr Obaz, that this is an acceptable solution, but I recall the letter from Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki addressed to seniors in which he said that the measure of state responsibility is to guarantee the dignity of the weakest, I am thinking of the seniors here. I would therefore like to ask: What other solutions do you propose? On the table lies the Left's proposal: three good pillars, or the second valorization - 12% This is a clear increase - it seems to me that the measure of predictable social policy is precisely such systemic solutions - to this widow's pension and drugs for 5 PLN (the bell) so that the seniors do not have to choose today whether to buy drugs so that they can be healthy or buy food or pay bills. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u51	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, Each aid to pensioners and pensioners in an age of crazy inflation is needed. On the other hand, I would like to ask you two questions on this occasion. The first issue is the so-called downloader. poverty, the number of which is growing at an alarming rate. More than 400,000 already. people today receive amounts below the minimum pension amount. Does the government provide for systemic solutions in this matter? How advanced is work on such a solution? The second issue is 500,000. people are waiting for internship pensions promised by the PiS government by President Andrzej Duda. The relevant citizens' bill is in the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs. There's also the Left project. Has the government taken a stand on this? When is this case gonna end? And the third point, the purchasing value of this additional benefit. A year ago you could buy more than 1 t of eco peas, and this year you won't buy even 0.5 t of eco peas. The Minister said there was an inflationary condition. Therefore, I ask what is the ratio of this 14th pension to the current purchasing power. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u52	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u53	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! An army of poor pensioners is growing. We all see it. One in six pensioners is already below the poverty threshold. There are rising prices, media charges, drug prices, and a dozen percent inflation is definitely not helping. Prices, inflation and daily life costs affect all Poles and Poles, pensioners, single parents raising children, students. This year the payment of the additional benefit is scheduled for August, last year it was in October. Minister! Do you think such support is sufficient for pensioners? Perhaps it would be worth considering another support that will somehow cover this inflationary hole so that the cost of life is even a little lower for this social group? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u54	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u55	God bless you, again. There's a race against time. It will be shown whether inflation tax has consumed one or two salaries, one or two pensions. This is your policy this year. In the past years, the rate of extreme poverty increased, which was measured by the Central Statistical Office. From 2019 to 2020, this rate has increased from 4% to 5% in households. Minister! My question is: How do further measurements and how do extreme poverty grow, when you support the financial pyramid of the ZUS, when you continue to bribe Poles with their own money, when you rob all of them with public taxes, hidden taxes, and especially inflation taxes this season? Tell me what the Ministry knows about the increase in the rate of extreme poverty in the passing season.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u56	Thank you very much. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u57	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Act talks about September benefit valorization if inflation exceeds 5%. Assuming inflation to reach 12% , the value of benefits would be 7%. This is a better solution for pensioners and pensioners. The increased benefits this year will be the basis for valorization in the following years. This is a system solution, predictable, certain, transparent and more favourable than a one-off payment that does not increase monthly benefits. You're stealing from seniors because of a single payment. My question is, why are you doing this? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u58	Thank you, Member. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u59	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The fact that pensioners and pensioners will receive 14 pensions is good. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, will this solve their problems with rampant inflation? No. I invite you to actively fight inflation so that pensioners can not only afford to buy coal, pay for electricity, so that they can afford medicine. Think about it, Minister, because these are the elements that determine the daily lives of pensioners. They give up medicine, they give up expensive fuel, they give up going anywhere. You really bring them to the point that dignity, ladies and gentlemen, is becoming a growing problem. This is a question that I don't think you can fully answer today. You can give me another allowance, but I think a much more serious question... [[♪ The bell ♪]] Make sure, ladies and gentlemen, that the retirees can just live a decent life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u60	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u61	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In April 2019 Mateusz Morawiecki explained why there was 13th pension. He said he talked to Mrs. Halina, who wants to go on a pilgrimage to Medjugorje, and Mrs. Zofia, who wants to buy her grandson a gift for Children's Day. What does reality look like after 3 years? Mrs. Halina's having trouble paying basic bills for electricity and gas, and Mrs. Sophia's borrowing from her grandson to pay her medical bills. [[And Mr. Michael?]] Ladies and gentlemen! The element and factor that also shows how expensive it kills Polish seniors is the debt of seniors. According to recent data of the National Debt Register, Polish pensioners are in debt for PLN 6 billion. This shows that they are unable to finance basic expenditure. Finally, the last case - Mr. Marshal Karczewski, who spit in the face of all Polish seniors, saying: butter is not so expensive. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Polish seniors, go to the store, see how much butter costs, and tell Karczewski what you think of him. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u62	Please, Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u63	Dear Marshal! Minister! I join all those voices of people who are critical of how you plan or how you are mummy of pensioners. You're saying inflation will be 3.3%. A inflation - 12.5% and forecasts will be much higher. So I'd like to ask the Minister if you've done... Finally answer what the purchasing power of retirement looks like. Because she's gotten worse in the last six years definitely, and that's your fault. If you're talking about the support of pensioners, tell me how much support you're going to have for people with disabilities that you're leaving without such support. Valorization today, but in the future... You met with the report: the increase of recipients, those who have pensions, about 30% in relation to the number of employees. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Two important targets and two important questions. How much will the forecast for the next 20 years be less employed than the recipients? And the question of purchasing power.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u64	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u65	So we need a second mid-year valorization, because don't let your eyes fool around that 14th retirement is a relief for pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u66	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u67	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, in the programme of Poland 2050 Szymon Hołowni we have anticipated very proactive solutions for pensioners, among others. We have predicted that such benefits, in the event that the pensioner retires later than is apparent from his metric age, will be suspended and will receive them just after he retires. Are you also considering a mechanism that encourages pensioners to spend their lives and work more actively in the autumn? [[Active+ ¿ programme.]] Second question, Minister. The cost of a ton of eco peas is approximately 2.5 thousand. zł. That price is up to $4,000. PLN, i.e. heating the apartment in the season can cost at least 7.5 thousand. zł. In general, they are pensioners, residents of housing cooperatives. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do you plan at all, or do you even think about the terrible costs that will cause people to freeze and die of cold in their homes the next winter? Do you guys even think about it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u68	Thank you very much, sir. [[Cassandra visions.]] [[It is important to look to the future, not just to think about today, Commissioner. You're gonna have to learn how to do that. Because a lot of things are really gonna be okay.]] [[Voice from the hall: Don't scare the public.]] I'm asking for peace in the courtroom. Please, Mr Mieczysław Kasprzak, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u69	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Retired people are getting worse. The poverty of pensioners is seen every step of the way. This is demonstrated by the galloping inflation and rising energy prices. We're talking about eco peas here. The price has increased four times over the last year. This shows what the difference is, what is the price of electricity and what will be in the near future. The 13th and 14th pension - this is cheating pensioners, because according to the logic of the system solution, which is that there is valorisation, solves the problem. So my question is, why doesn't the government want to put in place the value of the increase in living costs for pensioners, for the poorest social groups? I know the answer to that question. Because you will ride (the bell) and you will tell: the thirteenth, the fourteenth. And the next question is: What about agricultural pensions? Because they're in the lowest benefit group and there's poverty... [[And who extended the retirement age?]] We are talking about what you have done in the last seven years, Mrs President. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u70	Thank you very much. And I ask you to remain calm in the courtroom. Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u71	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Galloping inflation already reaching almost 13%, rising food and medicines prices, rising energy and fuel prices are felt mainly by seniors, those who collect low pensions and pensions. The average Polish pensioner cannot boast of the wealth of his wallet. 70% persons receive a benefit of 2,5 thousand. gross, or less than 2,1 thousand. On your arm. And the statistical Pole after retirement will be able to count on a slightly above 1/3 of the average salary. This is the third result from the end of the 37 countries of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development. For example, in Portugal the substitution rate is 90.3%, in the Netherlands it is 98.2%. In these countries, the senior is barely financially retiring. So I have a question to the Minister: Does the Polish government foresee a second (Bingle) valorization of pensions, which would certainly improve the financial situation of seniors? Besides, seniors demand it and show that it is necessary. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u72	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Iwona Hartwich, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u73	Dear Marshal! Dear Members and Messengers! I wanted to ask the Minister: Do you even know what your slogan for living means? I wanted to ask: Why did you steal the Solidarity Fund from people with disabilities, people unable to exist alone? I wanted to ask you why you're pulling out your hands at 1% now. ? I wanted to ask: Why have you passed a false bill of PLN 520, so far there is no compensation for medical or orthopaedic remedies? The disabled were supposed to save money. They didn't save anything. I ask: Why did you freeze the care allowance until 2023? [[Voice from the room: Another term is approaching.]] I'll have to protest in Parliament again because of the Minister. [[Applause]] I wanted to ask you why there isn't a single free... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Ma'am...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u74	Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u75	Madam, you should be ashamed of yourself. Don't interrupt me. [[Applause]] Lack of recessive care, notoriously, no assistants. I wanted to say that all retired people in Poland have earned their (Ring) decent pension. But you have an unimaginably good situation today - you can sign under my bill on raising social pensions, which we will raise to the lowest national level. I encourage you to sign. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u76	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u77	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Any real support for seniors, whether it's a 13th pension or a 14th pension, will certainly be accepted very well by the environment. Unfortunately, it must be said, however, that the 13th and 14th pension were financed by pensioners themselves from increased fuel, gas, coal, rent, basically for everything, including food purchases. So you can say that this is not real support, but really minimizing costs. And financing these benefits from the Solidarity Fund, thus stealing from the disabled, opposing the needs of the disabled and seniors, is an exceptional bastard. I would like to ask: With inflation reaching almost 13%, does the government envisage valorisation, real valorisation - a system solution that will allow seniors to feel that you are taking them seriously - still this year, at least for the rate of inflation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u78	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Płępek, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u79	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! If the contested law granting 14 pensions is the government's response to galloping inflation, as Minister Maląg said, then why are you doing everything you can to maintain this high inflation? Because high inflation is in the hands of the rulers, as it increases revenue to the state budget from taxes. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] Very funny, Member. [[Mr Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Very.]] The project states that this pension is to be granted to persons receiving a benefit not exceeding PLN 2900. That is the criterion. To put it simply, most in the pocket will be those who have worked their entire lives and paid their pension contributions, which is unfair and harmful. Why, then, was the criterion not of income but of income per person accepted? If you care so much about pensioners, then why don't you give everyone a bell without exception, just divide the Poles again? [[Member, no.]] You guys are excited about this. I don't know why you're so happy about the evil you're doing. Let me remind you that a ton of eco-pea costs nearly 3,000 already. zł. Don't you feel sorry for people? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u80	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u81	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Mrs. Member! After all, you wanted to close Polish mines. After all, not so long ago, the Green Party, which you are coalitioners, encouraged the government to close the mines as soon as possible, ladies and gentlemen. Minister! Ladies and gentlemen! There were words here about the government doing evil, doing evil, talking about bullshit. It was a bastard to convict Poles to death until they were 67 years old. It was a bastard. [[Applause]] [[Exactly.]] You have no moral justification to criticize the government today. Minister! Thirteenth pension, 14th pension, tax-free pension, medicines for seniors, lower PIT or 7 percent valorisation - we remember these 3.20 allowances during the Civic Platform - this is a huge financial effort (the bell) of the state budget. I wanted to ask: How much of the expenditure from the state budget to Polish pensioners has increased since 2019? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u82	Thank you very much. Please, Mrs Małgorzata Niemczyk, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u83	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the Act, you write that about 9 million pensions and pensions are amounts below PLN 2900 gross. Ladies and gentlemen! Many seniors dream of retirement or pension of PLN 2900. My neighbors, your neighbors, my loved ones, your loved ones are dreaming. The rise in prices of consumer goods and services has affected all Polish citizens, but especially the poorest people feel the rise in prices. These are millions of pensioners and pensioners. The rate of valorisation of pensions announced by the President of the main office is 107%. This means an increase of 7%. Let me remind you that inflation is above 12% And the forecasts say it could be 17%. Or 18%. Food prices increased on average by over 13%, bread - 23%, sugar - 35%, fats - 33%, flour - 25%, vegetables - 14%. Not to mention the giant price increases (The Bell) of energy carriers - 30%, fuels - 28%, transport. Stop pretending that it's important for you to protect your seniors from poverty, social exclusion.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u84	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u85	Government-led actions are not aimed at a genuine and effective improvement of the situation. [[Bożen Boris-Raccoon: Time!]] Your 13s and 14s are nothing but populism.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u86	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u87	So far, you're just robbing seniors from the base, from real money that's working on each other every year, and that could be valorized if they're added to value, and that should be added up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u88	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u89	I ask: Are you planning a second valorization of pensions in 2020? If so, how high? Thank you. [[Your marshal's gonna take us longer, too?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u90	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u91	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Unbelievable hypocrisy of politicians of the Civic Platform, those politicians who wanted Poles, seniors, pensioners to work until 67 years of age, those people who did not take seriously pensioners, pensioners, seniors at a time when they could run professionally and not rule. Today, the Civic Platform is talking about seniors. What did you do for the seniors? Just one thing. You got one man, Donald Tusk, for 1825 days of doing nothing in Brussels, the highest pension in Poland of 30,000. zł. [[Applause]] And the average pension of an ordinary Pole who works 20, 30, 40 years, that's 2600 PLN. Eleven times more Donald Tusk earns for doing nothing in Brussels because he couldn't even block Nord Stream for implementing Angela Merkel's proputinist policy. And you guys are going out here today and lecturing us? We have 13 pensions, 14 pensions, and when we talk about prices, prices of energy and heat (the bell), you vote against, because you want the prices of energy and heat to be as high for Poles as possible. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u92	Why, if everyone's so good, you're so jealous of Tusk? You have to go to Europe and work. [[Ooh, well done, Marshal.]] Please, Mrs Joanna Senyshin, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u93	Mrs. Marshal! Statistically retired pays PLN 502 of taxes per month. Since the number of pensioners is about the same as the number of children, it is the pensioner who gives 500 PLN per child each month, for this allegedly your 500+ program. When are you guys gonna stop moving the money that retired people put away for themselves for years? When are you gonna get rid of the pension tax? When will the government, instead of giving the electoral sausage the 13th and even the 14th pension, end the starvation pensions? The replacement rate is 42%, which means that the statistical pensioner receives only 42% the last salary. And this rate is lower every year. When will you return to the 60% substitution rate that was in the previous retirement system? Thank you. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u94	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mrs Boris-Raccoon, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u95	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! To be honest, this is a great debate. A great debate, because it could be punctuated: the devil dressed himself in a combo and a tail for Mass is ringing. You think the Poles don't remember. I think that the situation of Polish pensioners should be discussed in a very broad context. It's an annual, unprecedented value. This is not PLN 1.50, PLN 3.20. This increase in the lowest pensions, these are additional benefits in the form of 13th and 14th pensions, this is a reduced retirement age, and these are also solutions resulting from the Polish Government dedicated to this particular social group. Could you, Minister, respond to the false accusations of the opposition, which accuses us of stealing from pensioners - I say to us, because I am absolutely identifying myself with this government - while myself, during the time of its government, did not see the needs of this group (the bell)? I'll tell you more, she extended her retirement age and robbed the people of OFE. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u96	I mean, really... Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u97	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! There was a survey of the polling room in February and there were clearly and clearly Poles in the majority indicated that pensioners lived much better in the rule of law and justice, because Law and Justice conduct their policies jointly and severally, it cannot be compared to the poor politics that you conducted. I know you can promise things now, just like your leader promised, that it won't raise the retirement age, and that you've raised that retirement age to 67. Valuability under the Platform: 2 zł, 3 zł, 5 zł. Really, if this law and the solutions proposed by the Polish Government, the Government of Law and Justice, are so bad, why will you vote in favour? Look the pensioners in the eye and don't lie, don't cheat the pensioners. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Let me just say this: under the Civic Platform, in 2015 support for pensioners amounted to PLN 3.6 billion, and now it is PLN 40 billion. [[Voice from the room: What about inflation?]] Anyone who knows math and can count, knows what the Law and Justice are proposing, and what you have proposed. Don't count on the pensioner's memory to be short. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the hall: You only promise.]] [[We're realising.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u98	Please, Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u99	Thank you very much, Marshal. High Seym! Dear Seniors! I apologize to you for the scandalous speeches of Members of the Parliament of the opposition (Applause) who today insult you either by proposing to reject the bill and not to pay you this witness this year, in the second half of the year, or by calling the project fraud, bribery, evil or even bastardy. Family and seniors are at the centre of the government's attention. Already the second term we regularly prepare and implement projects that are designed to support particularly pensioners and pensioners who receive the lowest salaries. Tax-free amount, 30,000. zł, guarantees payment of the lowest pensions and pensions without tax. That is not true, as the opposition Members have said today. A free drug scheme for people aged 75 and over, a 7-percent benefit for pensions (the bell), a 13th pension as a guaranteed statutory benefit and a 14th pension again... [[Voice from the room: Time.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u100	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u101	Minister, how large a group of pensioners will this benefit provide real financial assistance? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u102	Thank you. I just wanted to correct your statement. I am conducting these proceedings and in this Chamber no Member has expressed a negative opinion on pensioners or pensioners, rather everyone has expressed their concern. No one here has used such words, Madam Member. [[Applause]] [[I was talking about the bill.]] Please, Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u103	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll say that with surprise, amazement and, in short, shame... [[You have no shame.]] ...I have listened to the speeches of some Members who enchant reality who do not have empathy towards Polish seniors, but have such a short memory that they do not remember, firstly, the raised retirement age, secondly, the reduced funeral allowance, thirdly, the ladies and gentlemen, about valorization. You don't date seniors who received PLN 2,80 in your time, PLN 3,20 worth? [[Voice from the Chamber: How much is inflation, Member?]] The truth hurts, which is why you're shouting what I have to say. I listen, and I don't believe that you can, as parliamentarians, also elected by seniors, say that 13th, 14th retirement is populism, it's election sausage. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Look into the eyes of the senior, for example. My mom, who's 92 years old, and tell her it's either a sausage or a populist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u104	Thank you very much, that was the last question. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to answer questions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u105	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that our seniors who are watching us will best assess this debate, and that for all the seniors who are taking part in this debate, this is a solution that we have proposed as an additional benefit in the form of a 14th pension is good. And you have to make up your mind about something, because some criticize that we are giving 14 pensions because we are increasing inflation and others say that we have to give more to improve the situation of pensioners. In recent years, under the rule of law and justice, there has been a huge increase in spending on senior policy. These numbers have resounded many times here. Let me remind you: only this year the valorization is 7%, although according to the law, if we were to adopt a 20% wage growth rate, it would be 5%. We've raised her level to 7%. and this meant a valorization worth more than PLN 18.5 billion, which was addressed to seniors. Thirteenth pension - PLN 13.5 billion, and now additional benefit, fourteenth pension - PLN 11.4 billion, i.e. to our seniors a total of over PLN 43 billion. If you think that 43 billion PLN is stealing from seniors, I really congratulate you on this interpretation when it comes to the funds we spend on our seniors. [[You're not the ones who've given up, they're the ones who...]] If we are talking about funding, it is absolutely not so - and it has been stressed many times - that we are taking anything from people with disabilities. The Solidarity Fund was subsidised from the State budget and the funds are allocated to the payment of a 13th or 14th pension. Over PLN 3.5 billion, 700 000 were allocated to independent individuals. persons enjoying this right and there is no risk regarding the allocation of these funds. The same is true for other actions financed by the Solidarity Fund, a total of almost PLN 5 billion. Let me remind you that this year the decision of the Prime Minister for Disabled Persons was allocated an additional PLN 1 billion, including for assistance, for respite care, for programmes which are being implemented, for assistance programmes - PLN 510 million this year. So this is real support for our seniors. Nor is it true what you say here about the poverty rate. Relative Poverty Index 2015 - 11.4% , and in 2021 - 9,6% That means it's falling. Extreme poverty - falling from 5% to 4%. Of course, if we are talking about inflation rates this year, they will be responsible for inflation, which will be important if we do the valorisation of pensions next year, because this is how the system is set. It's hard to keep up with valorization if we're counting the annual inflation rate. From here we refer to last year, hence we have increased valorization, as I said, to a level of 7%. It is also worth highlighting what you are talking about, the second valorization. We have a percentage valorization, i.e. in this case, those who have a higher benefit receive a higher benefit, i.e. less eligible, would be more difficult to help in this regard. There were questions about what kind of measures they were. It is worth pointing out once again - this is what the members of the Law and Justice Club said - that 13th and 14th pensions and valorisation are not the only actions we have taken. The tax-free amount shall apply from 1 January. The pensioner who receives the benefit up to the amount of PLN 2500 does not pay the tax. I remind you that with our 13th, 14th pension, we don't pay tax either, we're tax-free. And that free sum of 30,000. PLN directly affects the income of pensioners. It is worth noting, from 1 January, another solution, i.e. the reduction of PIT from 17% to 12%. It's also extra support for pensioners. So the solution package for seniors is wide and makes it easy to say today that it is much better than it was, and I will not mention that for the predecessors, because it has already resounded many times, what levels of refinement and support were. Knowing that these measures are needed, this year faster than we anticipated in terms of paying the 14th pension, we decided that at the end of August, at the beginning of September 14th pension, this additional benefit would be paid. So that's where we're going. There was a question about other actions, an anti-crisis shield. After all, there are additional benefits in the anti-crisis shield that we provide for pensioners, among others. for those pensioners who have the most difficult situation this year. So Poland's Load, tax reduction or pension without tax up to 2500 PLN, cover allowances, valorization, thirteenth and fourteenth pensions - all this is also to ensure a more decent living conditions for pensioners and pensioners. You can talk about older people care programmes, it's a 75+year care programme, free medicines over 75 years of age, a whole range that helps our pensioners and pensioners. There was also a question about working seniors. We have introduced a PIT-0 tax, i.e. all those who have the opportunity to retire and do not benefit from it, they also do not have to pay the tax at the moment, and they have a greater profit on it, of course. In conclusion, I think that the solution we have proposed will be well accepted by our pensioners and all entitled people, because the benefit will be for almost 9 million people who will benefit from this solution. I hope that despite the criticisms, the vast majority of the Polish Parliament will support this solution, because this is a solution that is needed by our pensioners and which will be well taken away by our pensioners. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u106	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. A request was made in the discussion to reject the draft law at first reading. We will proceed to the vote on this project at an hour. 12. I'm declaring a time-out. 12. Thank you. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 11 min 48 hours 12 min 08]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u107	I'm reopening the session. We return to the consideration of item 1 of the agenda: First reading of the government draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual cash benefits for pensioners and pensioners. In the discussion, a proposal was made to reject the draft law at first reading, which I will put to the vote. [[Game in the O.R.]] May I ask the ministers to sit on the bench? Rejection of this proposal will mean that the Sejm, as proposed by the Sejm Bureau, sent this proposal to the Committee on Social and Family Policy and the Committee on Senior Policy for consideration. I ask all of you to take your seats because we are voting. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Card? Good. I understand you're all ready to vote, right? We'll proceed with the vote. Who among you and your fellow Members is in favour of the motion for rejection at first reading of the bill contained in prints 2270 and 2270-A would like to raise your hand and press the button. Who's against it? Who's holding back? 435 Members voted. 12 for, against - 418, 5 abstained. The Sejm rejected the proposal and sent it to the Committee on Social and Family Policy and the Committee on Senior Policy for consideration. I propose on the basis of an article. 39 (1) (a) 3 Rules of Procedure of the Sejm for the committee to submit a report within a time limit allowing it to be discussed at this sitting. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. That concludes the vote. [[Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke: Marshal, I have a formal motion.]] A minor formal proposal - Mr Korwin-Mikke. Please. Don't leave yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u108	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! For reasons that are incomprehensible to me, you must not use the gesture of fascist greeting, but there are people in the room who vote with communist greeting. Communists murdered 10 times more people than fascists. I protest against the use of a communist gesture. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u109	I completely agree with the President, so I ask you - I have not seen it - if that is so, I ask you very much to vote by raising your hand and not by using any gestures that might be associated with it, okay? You're welcome. Thank you. One minute break. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 12 mins 12 h 12 min 14]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u110	I'm reopening the session. We proceed with the examination of item 2 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on: I would very much like to ask all your Members, as well as you and ladies in government benches, to silence the discussion, possibly to move it outside the Parliament Hall. [[Game in the O.R.]] Once again, I ask you to silence the discussion or move it out of the Seym. I ask Mr Krzysztof July to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights, I would like to present a report on the work on two draft laws which were addressed to the committee at its 51st meeting on 24 March 2022, i.e. on the draft law submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Law on the Supreme Court and on certain other laws contained in print No. 2011 and on the second draft law examined in committee, i.e. Parliamentary draft law on the protection of the independence of judges and the special principles of criminal and disciplinary liability of judges contained in print No 2013. In accordance with the decision of the Sejm, as I have already said, the Committee on Justice and Human Rights of 24 March 2022 examined these two draft laws, recognising as the basis for the presidential project, at five meetings on 6 and 21 and 26 April and 11 and 19 May and asking the High Sejm to approve the draft in print No 2271. I would also like to add that the committee is presenting minority proposals to the High Sejm. These minority proposals are as many as 31. I would also like to say, by recalling in principle that these draft laws, which the committee has dealt with, seem to be relevant issues relating to the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber in the Supreme Court and the replacement of this House with the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. It was a very loud postulate, and there were even voices that the granting of European funds for the implementation of the National Plan for Reconstruction depended on it. That's what happened. We've got the bill ready. On behalf of the committee, I request that this draft be adopted. It was well prepared, in my opinion, and in principle does not deviate from the presidential presentation. The amendments that were tabled during the committee's work were primarily editorial amendments. As regards the examination of substantive amendments, they were more specific. So the essence of the presentation, which we present as committee in print no. 2271, is really the project that presented to the Sejm the President of the Republic in print no. 2011. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u112	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would hear 7 minutes' statements on behalf of the clubs and 3 minutes' statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Ms Lidia Burzyńska will be the first to speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Law and Justice. [[There's been a mistake, Mr. Marshal.]] [[But it is as beautiful as Mrs Burzyńska...]] Mr President, please do not make such comments to the Member because he may not want them. [[But I take it as a joke from the MP...]] I understand that the Member represents a parliamentary club. Please, Mr Marek Ast.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u113	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Law and Justice, I have the honour to present my position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in print No 2271 on the draft law presented by the President of the Republic of Poland amending the Law on the Supreme Court and on certain other laws, in print 2011, and on the parliamentary draft law on the protection of the independence of judges and the special principles of criminal and disciplinary liability of judges in print No 2013. Of course, the main aim of both projects was to liquidate the Disciplinary Chamber in its current form. A further project, as if the presidential proposal were more fully regulated, therefore the Justice Committee considered this project to be the basis and the Parliamentary Law and Justice Club fully agreed with this decision of the committee. The issue of the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, of course, was of no doubt. neither on the side of the United Right, nor, as I understand it, from the opposition bench on this matter will the vote of opposition be raised. However, it must be made clear here, to correct this narrative, which says that in fact there will be only a change of name, that the Disciplinary Chamber, which will be replaced by the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, is in fact the same institution. That is not true, ma'am - both the choice of judges for the Chamber of Professional Responsibility is different, and the formation and structure of this Chamber are different. We are no longer dealing with an organ that is sort of separate from the Supreme Court and has some special status. So I think it takes a lot of bad will to claim that there will be no significant change and actual liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber in its current form. At the same time, as Parliamentary Club Law and Justice, we could not agree to these proposals for changes to the presidential submission, which were made by opposition clubs, from the most, to the mild ones, yet questioning the status of judges appointed to the Supreme Court. I am referring here to the proposals that judges in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility who have been working for more than 7 years should sit in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, because this is a clear differentiation of judges whose status under the Constitution is equal, and such a proposal would seem, however, to be in conflict with constitutional provisions. On the other hand, far-reaching proposals from the Civic Coalition Club or the Left were in fact aimed at a general denial of judicial reform and the introduction of changes that would also have to be considered incompatible with the Constitution. The questioning of the status of all judges who have been appointed by the President in recent years at the request of the National Judicial Council is heading in that direction. Of course, I agree with what the rapporteur said - the changes and amendments that were made during the committee's work do not fundamentally change the presentation of the President. The main assumptions for the submission remain, however, in view of the fact that we want no doubt that the President's intentions in connection with the bill will be preserved, we will propose amendments. On the one hand, these amendments are moving towards a departure from the proposal submitted by Solidarna Polska for this project. Here we must also agree with the legislators who say that the preamble is an exceptional content, which is attached to the law, with non-normative content. I think it is clear to everyone that the Polish Constitution has the primacy of treaty law, international agreements and national law, as in any other Member State of the European Union. At the same time, we want to restore this opportunity to test independence, impartiality in relation to decisions already taken. You have proposed that the President should, within six months of the date of entry into force of the Act, judgments issued in breach of the standard of independence and impartiality may also be subject to this test and that the parties may possibly apply for compensation. Here we propose a lower amount than you suggested the president, because from 2 to 10,000. zł. The other amendments that we are proposing are clear, technical and I think they will gain the support of the committee and later of the parliamentary majority. In this situation, as we said at the first reading, we support (the bell) the presidential project and we will certainly vote in favour of this law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u114	Thank you very much, sir. The position of the Parliamentary Club The Civic Coalition will be presented by Barbara Dolniak. You're welcome, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u115	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We were right when we warned about the consequences of earlier laws ruining the justice system. We have said that they are evil, contrary to the constitution, violate the rule of law and have nothing to do with democracy. You didn't listen to us. And today, because of your stubbornness, the budget of the state is poorer every day by EUR 1 million. [[Voice from the hall: Who said so?]] This today is a total of over PLN 1 billion. In addition, the compensation awarded by the TSUE and the ECHR. It's your ruling guilt. But as usual, you won't pay. this you, but the whole of Poland, means us, citizens. [[Tusk's bills are.]] As if that were not enough, the pseudo-reforms of the rulers led to an extension of the length of court proceedings. They last so long that we have the last place in the Union in this respect. Only 24% The respondents believe in the independence of the Polish judiciary. Here we occupy the penultimate place in the European Union. This is yours - the rulers - the fault. Today we warn that this draft law does not comply with the conditions of the European Commission, on which the payment of funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction depends. The liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber is fiction and only a change of sign. In fact, it's a propaganda execution of the TSUE's sentence.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u116	I would like to apologize to the Member for a moment and to ask Members who interact with the speech made by the Member that the discussion is provided for in another point.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u117	Thank you very much, Marshal. I just assumed that you didn't read the project, so discussing with these comments makes no sense. By eliminating the Disciplinar Chamber, you have an even worse proposal... [[What does that have to do with the project?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u118	I just asked you to refrain from the discussion, because it is provided for at a different point. Your speech has been interrupted from the very beginning. [[But he's talking to us.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u119	And I'm running out of time, Marshal. By eliminating the Disciplinar Chamber, you are making an even worse proposal, because according to the draft, the President, or representative of the executive authority, in fact a politician, will elect judges for the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, which means that he will choose at his discretion. This is nothing more than arbitrary decision-making by the President, after all, the same judges who sat in the Disciplinary Chamber can be elected. The judges will continue to be persecuted for the implementation of the judgments of the European Courts. A disciplinary measure is introduced, according to which judges will not be able to challenge judgments given by the neo-KRS only because of their appointment by the neo-KRS. He will also punish himself for refusing to sit in the neo-Shepherds, that is, directly for the execution of the judgments of the TSUE. This means that the project does not remove the provisions of the muzzle bill. There is no procedure in the Act that would give real opportunities to restore judges who stand up for the rule of law. The new act with its test of impartiality is a mere threat to the judge and the ability to manipulate the formations of the court. The new law does not restore the apoliticality of the National Judicial Council. Since the beginning of the discussion on the new Supreme Court Act, you have not intended to restore the rule of law or stop repression against judges and prosecutors. PiS, Solidarna Polska and President Duda thus pursue, unfortunately, their political interests, ruining the justice system. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u120	Thank you very much. Mr Arkadiusz Myrcha will continue his club speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u121	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! What Mrs Dolniak has just said is only a brief description of the fatal law you want to adopt to mark the execution of the judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union. In my view, it is as bad as the bad law that you are now adopting in this House, as embarrassing as your fairs were at over 2 months of meetings of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights. If anyone had the delusion that the governing camp would want, whether out of reason, out of concern for the money of Poles, or even out of the goodness of the heart, to settle the subject of the rule of law, he was deeply disappointed. In front of the Poles there was a simple political market about who would have more influence in the Supreme Court, in the Disciplinary Chamber. There were proposals on the part of the President's Chancellery that the President should elect these judges on a one-man basis, which, of course, is happening in this bill. There have been attempts to impose new powers on the Attorney General so that he can enter practically every court, civil, criminal procedure with his shoes, so that he can decide practically one-man formations. All this was not so that there would be money, which today Polish economy and Polish families need, only so that they could always ensure the impunity which is the cancer of the Polish justice system. The impunity of the rulers - that's all it was about. If you wanted to make things better in an elementary way, you should have started with the National Courts Council. We have already seen, even at the last session of the Sejm, what your attitude towards the National Judicial Council is: to elect the same judges, their judges all the time, despite their involvement in the hater affair, even though it is already known publicly that they are urging you to vote on your political environment. It doesn't bother you at all to choose them for an institution to uphold the independence and independence of the judiciary. It was a test you failed, of course, because you didn't even try to pass it in any way. Therefore, what is happening with the Disciplinar Chamber is merely marking the execution of judgments, but above all restoring the rule of law in Poland, because the rule of law is not something mythical, as it often seems to the Members of the PiS. The rule of law is one fundamental principle: equality between everyone and the law, the citizens, but above all the rulers. And it hurts you, you don't want to do that in Poland, you don't want to do that in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club will not put its hand in continuing the mission of the governing camp concerning the destruction of justice and the maintenance of the impunity of the power camp. We apply to reject this law at second reading. If this proposal does not gain a majority, we will make amendments aimed primarily at restoring the proper functioning of the National Judicial Council. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u122	Thank you very much. I'm handing over the motion. The position of the parliamentary club of the Left will be presented by Mrs Anna Maria Żukowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u123	Not just me, but my friend Catherine Ueberhan. High Izbo! Mr. Marshal! It is often said about this project that this is the project that will unlock money from the European Union for Poland. No, that's not true. This project is an ordinary bill. The vote on money for Poland took place a year ago in this House. That decision was made a year ago. There's no way money has to be unlocked because it's been blocked before. What's the reason they were blocked? Why didn't we get that money, like all the other European countries a year ago? Why are we waiting for them all the time? Because the fundamental principle of the European Union, the principle of judicial independence, is constantly being violated. This is a value that is not respected and respected in Poland, which we deeply regret as a Left. And this proposal by your president does not solve this issue. He powderes reality, changes the plaque, turns the Disciplinar Chamber into the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, juggles a little bit of the influence of the President and leaves a blank eye on the European Commission that this political influence will not be, but it is not true. The point is that the President will be among, yes, elected candidates to the Chamber of Professional Responsibility selected 11 people, but those he cared about, those who may have been chosen by the neo-KRS, because in the case of the neo-KRS nothing changes, this law does not touch this problem at all, not even its muscle. Therefore, what the Law and Justice have done, this confrontation of the justice system and all decisions taken jointly by judges who are properly elected and properly appointed judges, and those who have been presented to the President by the neo-KRS, will cause great chaos for many, many years. But we're gonna master this chaos because we're gonna win this election and we're gonna change those bad decisions. [[Voice from the courtroom: Judgments.]] Then all the money that we are waiting for will go to Poland and it will not be the government of Law and Justice that will have it. Now, after accepting these milestones and the so-called. the steps that should be taken with regard to KPOs, perhaps some of the money will go to Poland, but not all, and they will not be spent in this way, as probably the Law and Justice imagined. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u124	Thank you very much. And the club speech will be continued by the second Member, Catherine Ueberhan.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u125	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Poland is my home, and just as every house should be based on solid foundations. These foundations are included here, in the highest law of the Republic of Poland. These are regulations that are, among other things, provisions. that the Republic of Poland is a democratic legal state. It's about the rules of the article. 173... [[Room voice: 178.]] [[173.]] ...who say that courts and tribunals are separate and independent from other authorities. The quoted article is contained in the constitution, this constitution, whose 25th anniversary we celebrate this year, the constitution, whose resolutions are so often too often bent and broken by the PiS state, by the state on the right side of the room, the current majority of the parliament, even by the faulty appointment of the neo-KRS, and now by the neo-KRS bis. The presidential project, in the words of its author, was to give the Polish government a tool to end the dispute with the European Commission and unblock funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction. We do not need a dispute with the European Commission. Poland needs peace of mind over all the threats that I will quote the President, and yes, with this statement, we can all agree. But does the draft Presidential Law fulfill the principles of the author's words? Does this project implement the judgments of European tribunals? Does this project restore the rule of law in breach of the vocation and functioning of a non-trial Disciplinary Chamber? Does it guarantee, even if it ensures that the articles of the Constitution that I have mentioned here are implemented? There's one answer for today: no. It's a big disappointment. After great expectations, many hours of debate in the Sejm, in committees, after great political fairs, trying to force the ununited right hand in front of the cameras, well, what was the result? It could not be different in the situation of not accepting any of the opposition amendments. It's not a big deal. Nothing changes that would fix a deformed system. Eliminating the chamber by setting up a new chamber? The Chamber of Professional Responsibility in place of the Disciplinary Chamber is a repainted sign, a game of appearances, a performance, a continuation of political performances on order, a new title, old actors, an old game. By signing the constitution of 2 April 1997, President Kwasniewski left behind this legacy. Mr. President Duda, what will you leave behind? Is that gonna be the bill? You're gonna leave that bill behind? [[And the one who left it behind? Kwasniewski?]] High Izbo! Dear colleagues, Membership! The Left cannot support and does not support the project in this form. [[Voice from the room: I understand.]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u126	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club, the coalition of Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u127	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, please. Funny, Mr. Minister! Funny not to know what. On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Polish Coalition - PSL, the European Union of Democrats, Marek Biernacki Conservatives, I would like to present our position on the report of the Committee on Justice and Human Rights on projects reforming the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mr. Marshal! Please, Mr Kalet has a problem with his emotions, not from now on.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u128	And it's been a while now. That is why I ask Mr Kaleta very much to refrain from making joking comments only in your opinion, because... [[Game in the O.R.]] [[No, it's not. It's mine, too.]] The hyperactivity of Members of Solidarna Polski is understandable, but we would also ask to stop emotions. [[Voice from the room: The Lord is from Solidarna Polska. Come on in.]] [[Voice from the hall: You're a good guy.]] [[A voice from the room: Mr. Marshal, I just...]] We prefer that you do not speak at all, sir. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: You're right.]] We ask for respect for the Member present, who represents the Parliamentary Club of the Coalition of Poland. The same respect is due to all present. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u129	If your Marshal's suggestions didn't work, Mr Kalet, and there's a doctor's office at the hotel, and there's a doctor's office below us. [[Voice from the room: What's the point?]] You can use some extra support. Like I said, if your Marshal's suggestions were very clear, they wouldn't help. [[Voice from the Chamber: This is a parliamentary culture?]] [[Will you come with me?]] Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u130	I'd rather not apply the regulations... [[Then don't insult me.]] I'm the one asking you not to provoke, because there's a club appearance, it's a very serious matter, and you're just laughing about it. Once again, I ask you to remain calm in the Chamber and allow the Member to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u131	Thank you very much, Marshal. Today we must break this false narrative, a false story that has been coming from the mouths of the politicians of the United Right, about the alleged evil will of the opposition, about the connection between the President's legal act and European funds. This is, ladies and gentlemen, drinking on water, photomontage, distraction from what has been going on in this case for a year, in the Disciplinary Chamber, in the United Right Camp, from this bulldog conflict under the carpet between President Kaczyński and Zbigniew Ziobra. What are the facts? Today, I would like to make it very clear to the public that the real picture and negligence of the power camp should not be falsified as regards the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber. What are these facts? The opposition, and I will speak on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland, first, as the first club, we expressed our willingness to cooperate with the President when it comes to this project. Even before the Law and Justice, we expressed our willingness to cooperate on this project without any conditions other than our three amendments, which were ultimately not accepted, there was no doubt here. I'll get back to those amendments. We also expressed the unconditional will to support the National Plan for Reconstruction, as the only opposition club in the Polish parliament a year ago. At that time, we saw no desire to support this plan by Solidarna Polska, by Mr Zbigniew Ziobra. There was an annual theatre of mutual boycotting of this project, not in opposition, ladies and gentlemen, but in a power camp. The annual delay with the National Reconstruction Plan is the result of a war in the power camp (Applause) between President Kaczyński and Zbigniew Ziobra. And here's our surprise. What did President Kaczyński do? He surrendered to Zbigniew Ziobrze, although - and now I am returning to the presidential project - the Parliamentary Club of the Polish Coalition wanted to share responsibility for solving a reliable, solid problem both of the Disciplinary Chamber and of the widely understood healing of the justice system. We have tabled three very clear, concrete, substantive amendments. Firstly, the judges who form the Disciplinar Chamber are retired and the situation is clear. The second amendment - judges who will be included in the Committee on Disciplinary Responsibility set up by the new draft will have to prove themselves 7 years of work in the Supreme Court. The content of this amendment, as we know, would also solve many doubts and problems. And the third very clear, precise amendment - all decisions of the Disciplinary Chamber, which resulted in a deviation from the ruling of the judges of the Polish courts, are considered invalid, these judges return to judgment. It is a simple, clear, legible amendment and an opportunity to share responsibility for resolving this situation. But with astonishment at the next committee meetings, during the committee's work, we noticed that little of the fact that there is no interest in these amendments, it is still some kind of bunchy attitude and some questioning of this, saying what we want at all from what the camp is proposing today. This is, ladies and gentlemen, the essence of the problem we are facing today. If you really expressed the sincere, authentic will in the United Rights camp to correct the justice system, to correct it - let's put it back - without any big assessments - you would have made amendments to the Polish Coalition, we could not only signal to the environment creating the justice system in Poland (the bell), but also to all the partners in Europe that some right, wise, above the divisions of reflection from what happened. But you wasted that chance. You may have wasted your last chance to put the situation with the Supreme Court in order with a class worthy of Polish political class. What got in the way? I ask you today, ladies and gentlemen of the Members of Law and Justice and Solidarity of Poland, which has prevented this from happening. Did this internal food, this conflict, this heart-to-heart between you really have to win? What prevented us from communicating? There's an answer to that question, Mr. Marshal, High Izbo. Unfortunately, these are the impure, dishonest intentions of the United Right's government camp in the case of the Supreme Court, on the matter of justice and on the recovery of relations with the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, who will present the position of the Confederate Group, will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u133	Ladies and gentlemen! I am disgusted to hear how it is said about silversmiths from Brussels in the context of such a serious case as the judiciary, judicial reform, independence of the judiciary in Poland. Most clubs, as we sit here, agreed that we should pay hard-earned money to Brussels and that Brussels should distribute the money. Now you're in a situation with a kid who's either gonna be rude and get spanked, or he's gonna be polite, and he's gonna get pocket money. You do what you're told. That's disgusting. I hope that one day Poland will have a chance to grow up, will look out for itself, which means it will simply regain independence. It's not gonna happen right now, because current politics is an e-theater and a power struggle. It has nothing to do with values, nothing to do with ideas. An example is the struggle for the shape of Polish judicial authority. The dispute about the Disciplinary Chamber is not about how to fix the justice system, it is not about how to solve the problem of dishonest judges, while preserving, in the light of the idea of three divisions of power, the independence of the judicial authority from the executive and legislative. It's a dispute about who's gonna decide which judge is honest and who's not. It is a dispute about who will violate the independence of Polish courts. It's a huge power, hence a fierce debate about what groups of judges, i.e. by whom the chosen will judge the other judges. This money from Brussels is just a left-handed tool to push your vision into this case. The amendment proposed by us by the Confederation solves this problem because it is above the fight of individual political groups. How? In a very simple way. As Albert Einstein said, the simplest solutions are the best, and as the old rule says, no one is a good judge in their own case. Violation of this principle is a source of problems, so this principle needs to be restored. That's why judges can't judge other judges. This should be done by a jury. The jury used to function in the Polish judiciary, but it was effectively eliminated by the commune. Of course, the commune 2.0 Now he's defending it so he doesn't accidentally bring them back. What exactly would it look like? The jury would be drawn from already existing lists of jurors, people who have some experience in court cases. They would be given professionally prepared charges, they would sit under the custody of the judges, secretly of course, and they would vote secretly, by a majority of 3/4 votes, whether or not the case is declared guilty. It's a forward run. It's a bridge solution. It would allow us to get out of this deadlock (the bell) and therefore it is uncomfortable for any group that fights for power. Of course, it won't go away until we break the duopol that has ruled Poland for years. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u134	Mr Michał Grammark will speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u135	Dear Marshal, Minister! Minister! High Izbo! Mr. President! It was a big chance. You stood before us and described your bill as an opportunity for the government, for the opposition, for Poland. I'm afraid you've wasted your chance. Your bill was supposed to fix at least a scrap, a tiny fragment of the judicial system destroyed by Mr. Zbigniew Ziobra and others like him. After your first reading of the project, which was legislatively questionable, you created a real legislative rubble. The preamble refers to the scandalous case law of the Przyłębska Tribunal. It is worth mentioning: this new phase of integration with the European Union causes the loss of legal sovereignty of Poland. That's what he says. Judge so-called. The Constitutional Tribunal in its ruling, which assumes that there is some virtual inconsistency between the EU treaties and the Polish constitution, is worth mentioning: the treaties ratified, among others. by sleep. Prof. Lech Kaczyński, President of the Republic of Poland. From yours, Mr. President, the test of the judge's independence and apoliticity in the current wording of the bill remains ruined. On the basis of the revised rules, it will not be possible to examine whether decisions taken in recent years are correct or not. The smaller curiosities of this project are much to talk about. My favorite: hearing the judge in disciplinary proceedings can take place in writing - listening and asking questions. It's absurd. Until you can hear the famous song of Wojciech Młynarski in your head: What else is there to spoil, gentlemen, what else is there? And time is running out. Your fun on this project costs Polish people and Poles 1 million euros a day. Already today, the penalty for failure to comply with the judgment of the TSUE has exceeded twice what Poland spends on child psychiatry every year. On behalf of the Parliamentary Circle, Poland 2050 once again makes amendments, which bring back obvious solutions. The Neo-Judges of the Disciplinary Board shall not have the right to retire. Why would I do that? For signing up for an illegal and oppressive system to destroy real judges? The Neo-Judges of the Disciplinary Chamber must not go to other chambers of the Supreme Court because the Disciplinary Chamber is not a court and it has never been. All cases initiated in the Disciplinary Board must be dismissed by law, all decisions must be declared not by law. It is necessary to restore to work all unjustly punished true judges and to restore their wages. You want to bring real judges back to the Chamber of Professional Responsibility (the bell) and you want to honor the judges of the Disciplinary Chamber with honors for taking part in an illegal activity? [[What costumes? What are you saying?]] Mr. President! If this bill comes out of the Sejm as it stands, I sincerely hope that you will veto it. It does not solve any, I stress: none of the problems addressed by European tribunals. I'm a man of integrity - you spoke from this platform. Be a man of integrity. Don't allow this right to be exercised. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u136	Thank you very much. I now ask Mrs Magdalena Sroka to speak, which will present the position of the Agreement circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u137	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We all know the legend of King Midas, who turned everything he touched into gold. However, in the case of the amendments of Solidarna Polska there is a completely different ambition - to be the opposite of King Midas. The original draft of President Andrzej Duda could have been a project that would have convinced some of the opposition. After a few amendments had been adopted, it could have been a project that would have been adopted over the divisions. However, thanks to Members of Solidarna Polska, this project is at the moment another hammer on the justice system. But this story has to be told from the beginning. We need to be aware of the great opportunity we stand. EUR 58 billion for the National Reconstruction Plan should have worked in Poland long ago. This money could work in small homelands without games between PiS and Solidarna Polska. This money should not be the loot of any political party, it should not cause conflict. They should contribute to the further development and implementation of investments in Poland. Unfortunately, the lie is that this project eliminates the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court. Unfortunately, he only changes the name. The project was not intended to build the belief that the Disciplinary Chamber would be liquidated. He was only meant to change his name from the beginning. Ladies and gentlemen! Failure to apply the test of independence of judges to six months back from the entry into force of the Act only strengthens pathology in the current judicial system. The question arises as to who will decide the fate of the suspended judges. This will be decided by the members of the KRS, i.e. the members of the body, which is in fact the primary basis of the conflict between the European Commission and Poland. All this time, we were hoping it might be different this time. But no. The doctrine of the rulers, the government coalition, is right now: war, continue, war, continue. [[♪ The bell ♪]] All the time, let's get this money out of the way. The whole can be printed with one quote: It's gonna take a lot of change to keep things the same. And this is unfortunately the case with this project. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the proceedings includes Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Kidawa-Błońska Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u138	Thank you very much, Member. Please, Mr Jarosław Sachajko, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u139	Mrs. Marshal! Ministers! High Izbo! On behalf of the Circle of Poselski, Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy I have the honour to present my position on the bill submitted by the President of the Republic of Poland on the amendment of the Law on the Supreme Court eliminating the Disciplinar Chamber. High Izbo! The dispute around this chamber does not serve Poland and should be completed as soon as possible. The bill is followed by milestone-based solutions agreed with the European Commission. So let us not hesitate to accept it and let us deal with other important matters for Poles, such as inflation or strengthening the Polish defence force in connection with the war in Ukraine. We hope that the project will contribute to the end of the dispute with the European Commission and unblock the funds from the National Plan for Reconstruction. High Izbo! Since we are discussing the judiciary, I kindly remind you of the proposal, also submitted by the President, concerning the judges of peace, because, in discussing the details, we cannot forget the important systemic solutions that improve the judiciary and give citizens a real impact on the choice of judges and on the trust they have in the courts. The Disciplinary Chamber is a very narrow element, and the politicians responsible for Poland should look at the problems in the judiciary as a whole. Let us work on solutions that help relieve the burden of judges, speed up the process of waiting for a sentence and increase confidence in the courts. On the occasion of the work on this project, there have been many constitutional disputes. It is therefore also a good opportunity to remind you of Kukiz15's postulate on the need to change the constitution, because this one, which has been in force for 25 years, gives a very large scope for interpretation, which unfortunately we meet every day when we hear about completely different positions in relation to individual paragraphs of the Constitution. The Constitution of 3 May 1791, states that after 25 years it will be reviewed: recognising the need to improve it, after experience of its effects on public well-being, time and time of revision and improvement of the constitution every year twenty-five we mark. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction that there has been an agreement and today we are proceeding on the report. High Izbo! It's better to take a step forward than to stand still. Therefore, the Circle of Poselskie Kukiz.15 will support the reached position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u140	Thank you very much. Please, Mr Robert Kwiatkowski, PPS.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u141	Yes, sir. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When previously I had the honour of presenting the position of the PPS Parliamentary Circle on the presidential draft law amending the Supreme Court Act, I asked the ruling majority and representatives of the President: What was it for? Why was there a need for reform of the justice system, and why did it turn into a deformity, to deny it, unlike it? This deformity has permanently conflicted the judicial environment, undermined confidence in justice, so needed to build social capital and invest, delayed the handling of cases in courts, prevented huge European Union funds from being available under the new budgetary perspective 2021-2027 and under the Fund for Reconstruction after the COVID-19 pandemic. The Prime Minister didn't understand any of this. It's called weapons. The Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court, telling us about 90% of disciplinary proceedings for drunk driving, rape, and quote: other thefts. At least the Minister of Justice knows that we need to change the methodology to defend a false thesis with a more efficient justice system. That's not gonna happen. The reality of the screeches and if in consumer matters the decision in 2015 - when, let's remind, Poland was in ruins - lasted 10.3 months, now it lasts 17 months. In economic matters, the investigation of cases from 13.5 months extended to almost 20 months. Today, the Marshal, the High Izbo, the ruling mountain, has given birth to a legal mouse and is trying to deceive the European Commission, the Court of Justice of the European Union, the European Court of Human Rights, the opposition and, above all, the public. Is this gonna work? I'm sure you won't be able to fool the PPS Parliamentary Circle. After all, the project does not break the bat against judges, which was to be the Disciplinary Chamber, nor does it reverse the repression against judges who dared to be independent, and above all, High Izbo, does not see the problem of neo-KRS and that judgments given with the involvement of judges appointed by the neo-KRS are effectively challenged by courts in the European Union. It's not gonna help you whisper reality. This problem, which the right hand gave Poles, needs to be solved as soon as possible, because later it will only be harder. If we, High Izbo, had to choose... We need money and the rule of law, and we are in favour of this solution. But if we have to choose, we choose the rule of law, not the money. If the state is law-abiding, the money will come. This rule of law is in the modern world...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u142	Get close to the end.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u143	...in deficit goods. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u144	Thank you very much, sir. Let's get to the questions. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to address the question? I'm closing the list. As the first Mr Mariusz Kałużny, Law and Justice. Because we've got a system malfunction, I'm gonna be on my stopwatch measuring time. One minute, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u145	Very well, you have a fair stopwatch. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! We're talking about judicial reform today. And when a citizen goes to court, what does he expect? Justice. Who does he meet? [[Voice from the room: Dress-ups.]] A judge who leaves the seat of the Civic Platform, a judge who is present at the CODE rallies, and - of horror, that is true - a judge who ruled, for example. in the Polish People's Republic and sentenced Polish patriots. [[Voice from the room: No, it isn't. Don't lie to me!]] The question may be asked: Do you want righteous judgments? No, you want politics, you put people on the street, you became a confidant opposition, you broke every record of reporting to Poland, and now that you have to work substantively at the Justice Commission, eight Members of your two party vote in favour of your amendment. Is this about justice? No, you mean, I repeat, politics, because you can't win elections in a normal way, which is why you're using abroad for this, and your game (the bell) is extremely dangerous today. Why? Because in a drastic way in Ukraine human rights are being violated... [[Voice from the room: Ask a question!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u146	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u147	...and you're your lying narrative...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u148	Mr President, time is up.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u149	...that in Poland human rights are being violated, you are lowering Poland's position in Europe and in the international arena. [[Voice from the room: What question were you going to ask?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u150	Thank you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u151	Your Marshal, last sentence. Of course we have to get along, we have to finally reform justice in Poland, but not at the expense of Polish sovereignty, not at the expense of Brussels ruling Poland... [[Voice from the room: Don't lie!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u152	Mr President, half a minute out of time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u153	...and not at the expense of justice in the courts. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u154	Thank you very much and I would like to ask you to comply with your time. Mr Piotr Benedykt Zientarski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u155	Mrs. Marshal! I ask the Prime Minister as a defender of repressed martial law, a constitutionalist: When will real steps finally be taken to return the Polish justice system to European Union standards, whose founding treaties are based on the same foundations, values, independence of courts, independence of judges? [[Voice from the room: After all, they are independent.]] I would like to remind you that in October 2021 the current neo-KRS was excluded from the European Judicial Council Network after years of suspension. [[The voice from the courtroom: 'Cause you lied.]] In this dimension, we are already outside the European Union. When will Minister Ziobro stop cheating on Poles that there is a legal dispute? All scientific, professional and legal bodies in Poland, all, I stress, have clearly expressed their acceptance of the decisions of the TSUE. Also according to outstanding European experts, including from the UK (The Bell), the opinion of Minister Ziobra is false that its reforms are based on the European Union's standards. A number of experts clearly indicate that it was based on patterns of eastern Putin, Erdo?ana. The fact that some elements were taken selectively from Western laws does not make them law-abiding. The peak of hypocrisy - the last sentence - is the use of the constitution by those who have repeatedly broken it. It is from our highest law, the constitution, that we must respect the treaties, the article. 9, with the priority of EU law in the case of conflicts with laws. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u156	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you. Please, Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u157	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! No one has any doubt why this disciplinary pariah was the government of Law and Justice. A few days ago, Kosma Złotowski, who asked why Judge Igor Tuley was suspended, answered very clearly: Because he gave bad sentences. That's why the Disciplinary Chamber was there to direct judges and judges to throw away because they're inconvenient. [[The voice from the room: No, it revealed evidence.]] 'Cause, you know, like... will judge a colleague of the President of Kaczyński or will give sentences to people who support the PiS. [[Voice from the room: Bullshit.]] But I have a question for the President's Office. Please tell us whether you are providing a guarantee that if this bill is adopted, the European Commission will issue consent and launch PLN 270 billion for Polish local governments, for Polish entrepreneurs. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Does President Andrzej Duda guarantee all citizens that money will go to Poles and Poles? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u158	Please, Mr Dariusz Klimczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u159	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question for the destroyers of the Polish justice system and the good name of Poland: Do you realize that all your past actions, and especially the regrettable idea with the Disciplinar Chamber, do not bring any benefit to Poland, only problems? And it's not just about chaos in the justice system, it's about huge financial losses, it's about depreciating the good name of the legal professions. For a year now, you've been trying to produce a bill that will undo it, but you don't know which knee to kneel before the European Commission. [[Voice from the room: You're the ones lying down.]] You want to hit your chests for your mistakes, but you don't know how to do it so you can hear it in Brussels on the one hand, but on the other hand, so that the Poles don't know it. Today you are trying to fool everyone, including the European Commission, but we are not going to get caught. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u160	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Janusz Kowalski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u161	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Let's talk definitions. The total opposition, with its eyes on Brussels and Berlin, speaks of two dates: it speaks of impunity and speaks of the rule of law. So what is the rule of law? The rule of law for us, for Minister Zbigniew Ziobro, is compliance with the law, compliance with the Polish Constitution. And what is the rule of law for the opposition? This is the position of the absolute printer, the command copy machine from Berlin and Brussels. You don't talk like Polish politicians, you don't defend the Constitution. Although you have adopted this constitution yourself, you are not defending the KRS. You insult Polish judges, you talk about neo-KRS, you talk about neosedes. You are not disturbed by Franciszek Iwulski, a communist who had a Soviet uniform in the 1970s and is today in the Supreme Court. [[Voice from the hall: Piotrowicz!]] This judge doesn't bother you. You want Tuleys like that, Yuschins like that, Justitie like that. There's no permission to do that. I'm talking to all the judges of the independent judiciary. We're never gonna let these people get to power. We will not allow judges to be removed in accordance with the article. 180 are inextricable. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] There's no permission to do that. As for the KPO (Dawn), ladies and gentlemen, if Minister Zbigniew Ziobro had not had these vetoes, which were in 2017, the justice system would have been reformed by now. That's also the truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u162	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u163	And there will be a moment when we reform the justice system... [[Voice from the room: He would be subordinate.]] ...there will come a time when we will protect this justice system from you. We will not allow you to continue to support such politicized judges. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u164	Thank you very much, sir. Please, Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u165	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If someone thinks well of the presidential project, it means he hasn't read it at all, because you're replacing the other chamber. Without any contradictions, you will pass all possible votes, in fact it is only a change of tablets. One chamber after another, you don't even have to choose them, because they're on the list, so we're just gonna move them. Marshal Richard Terlecki publicly says that he hopes that the suspended judges will not return to judgment. Therefore, I ask whether there is a drop in the PiS for payment of a penalty of PLN 900 million. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u166	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Smishek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u167	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The law that came out of the committee is actually powdering reality and political theaters to order Law and Justice. This is a rotten compromise. This bill, which came out of the justice commission, is a rotten compromise contained in this exotic, pathological triangle, which is Andrzej Duda, Zbigniew Ziobro and Jarosław Kaczyński. It is Zbigniew Ziobro, as a result, who traded support for this bill for his nominates at the KRS bis. This bill doesn't solve anything. But the victim of this rotten compromise was the right to court hundreds of thousands of Poles and Poles. This bill is like a huge concrete mixer who flooded illegal judges and cemented their presence in the Polish justice system. It was supposed to be the removal of illegal judges, and there is a soft landing for those illegal judges (the bell) who today got a chance to rule in other chambers. This is not a solution to the problem, this is driving hundreds of thousands of our citizens into giant troubles. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u168	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Paszyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u169	Thank you very much. I liked the logic of Mr Pułżny, who gives such a vision here, speaking to Poles to imagination, what happens when you go to court today. Mr President, you are a little confused about your perception and opinion, because today, when a Polish woman or a Pole goes to court, what is it that collides with? With several extensions over the last seven years of your case. If he's going to court today, what does he see? First of all, double the legal costs. What does he see when he goes to the D.A.'s office today? He's afraid that the minister's political governors will deprive him of his chance to take the case. But the worst thing I would like to say to you today, gentlemen from Solidarna Polska, is the penalty of 1 million euros a day for the matter of the Disciplinary Chamber. Come out today to parents of children with SMAs and tell them that your foolish stubbornness deprives the chance to treat (the bell) those children who could heal for this money today. [[The voice from the hall: Your confidence costs so much.]] Your silly stubbornness crosss it off. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u170	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u171	Why don't we drop the populism, 'cause I'm gonna count how much you can help people with multiple sclerosis for money spent on your suit. This really isn't the right direction. [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] I, on the other hand, have a very simple question. The process of judicial reform has shown that courts cannot be independent in Poland, because this process is influenced by an external organisation called the European Union. So I have a question: is the government planning to move in this direction in order to return to the foundations, the fundamental idea of the European Union, i.e. to eliminate this bureaucratic pier, the system of redistribution of money that makes us dependent on the European Union, and to return to the economic community of free trade, the flow of goods and services? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u172	Please, Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u173	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! What I'm about to say won't be very nice. We all know what Katowice is: Ubek Katownia, Esbec Katownia, Hitler's Katowice. The Member from Solidarna Polski laughs, but it was your colleague, Judge Radzik, who called the place of the hearings for the judges in Katowice. [[I'm laughing at you.]] Gentlemen, do you know him well? To what, which tradition did he refer? Esbec, Ubec or Hitler's? Which tradition? [[Voice from the hall: To yours.]] You're defending it today. You defend the spokesperson, you defend the deputy spokesperson of the Disciplinary Chamber, which the place of interrogation of Polish judges called Katowice. These are your people. These are the people you hired in the Disciplinary Chamber. This is an absolute scandal. Minister! I wanted to ask: Will there be any disciplinary process against this individual who thus defiled the good name of Polish judges? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And I have one question to ask the Minister: will you guarantee your authority that this law, in this wording proposed today by the committee, will actually allow the EU funds from the Reconstruction Fund to be unblocked? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u174	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Decoration, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u175	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Suchoń! As for the Ubec tradition or communist tradition, there was a first change, because Prof. Zaradkiewicz, who was the President of the Supreme Court, took the portraits of communist criminals off the wall at the exit of the Supreme Court, which Mrs. Małgorzata Gersdorf tolerated. It was a symbolic moment that showed that this is a different approach when it comes to cutting off those communist judges you want to keep. What's going on in the gym right now is unbelievable. Mrs. Gasiuk-Pihowicz, who regularly, with intensity of light, can throw arguments, now hits like a bullet in a fence. You are perhaps the only representative of the opposition or the only face of the concreteing of the Polish justice system. You support Judge Tuleya, who was able to reveal evidence during the proceedings. You want communist judges. You want judges who could spend property on 110-year-olds. If you think such a judge should continue to serve, then... I have one more question. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's Mrs. Dolnyak in the room. Do you really believe that the current KRS has no right to indicate who the judge is? Think about it at home.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u176	Thank you very much, sir. Ask her if these judges are judges. In this discussion, you are the hypocrites. (PL) Mr President, Mr President, Ms Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u177	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! If the United Right thinks that this law executes the judgments of the TSUE, then it is in deep error, because these judgments impose a real obligation on Poland... [[Voice from the room: What judgments? What?]] ...the restoration of the rule of law, not the paper liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber. According to expert calculations, the delay in the payment of money from KPO which PiS was responsible for has already reduced Polish GDP by PLN 21 billion. [[Voice from the room: Lying! How did you vote?]] This is about PLN 160 million a day. It's the PiS' inaction bill. [[Voice from the hall: You didn't vote in favour.]] However, there is more to this question than money, because the free world defends Ukraine today because it does not go through authoritarianism. The world defends its European aspirations because it has taken its own blood on the side of democracy, not on the side of autocracy. In the future, will the world be equally willing to defend a country that has the rule of law for nothing? Will Europe be equally willing to help the country in which government policy (the bell) decides the Polish ex-European Union ex-Zbigniew Ziobro? Answer the question: Do you want to go the Zelensky way or Putin's way? That's the question. It's for you. [[Voice from the room: Democracy, tragedy.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u178	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u179	Let's show that Poland is a state of law. That's what our amendments lead to.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u180	Thank you. I would like to ask for peace on one side and on the other. [[You threatened us with a finger. I feel intimidated.]] And you, Mr President, have interrupted the speech of the honourable Member. It's not kindergarten. Calm down, please. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u181	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Ladies and gentlemen of the President! When Mr Andrzej Duda, President of the Republic of Poland, presented his bill, he said: here we have a bill that will end the dispute between Poland and the institutions of the European Union. This is the question: is this project, which has now reached its second reading, a project which, according to the president, will end the dispute between Poland and the institutions of the European Union? After all, he de facto transforms only the Disciplinar Chamber, does not eliminate it. But there is also a question of whether it is our duty to restore the judges whose Disciplinary Board has dismissed the ruling. I would like to ask the representative of the government: Minister, how many judges have been removed from judgment by the Disciplinary Chamber of the Supreme Court (the Bell) and how do you think they will be restored, e.g. by doing so. TSUE rulings? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u182	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u183	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Minister! I trust professionals, I trust scientists, so many weeks ago I asked for expertise on these draft laws. I encourage you to familiarize yourself with Professor Cezary Kulesza's expertise. In short, in his view, the project does not attempt to solve the basic problem - the faulty procedure for appointing all judges as a result of the recommendation of a questionable constitutionally and non-European standards of the judicial authorities of the National Council of the Court of Justice given to it by the amendment of 8 December 2017. It is clear from the opinion of Prof. Krzysztof Grajewski that the restoration of a constitutional state should begin with the adoption of provisions restoring the shape of the KRS as defined in the Basic Law. Without this, all other partial changes will only be apparent. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Why aren't we doing this? Why don't we trust scientists? Why did the chairman of the Marek Ast Justice Committee not get acquainted with these studies, and what do I regret? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u184	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Mariusz Gosek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u185	Dear Marshal! Minister! Minister! High Izbo! On behalf of the Group of 18 Members, I submit amendments to the draft law amending the Law on the Supreme Court and certain other laws. It's about prints no. 2011 and 2271. These amendments do not change the substance of the proposed solutions, they are technical, precise and adaptable. On the other hand, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to the discussion because it is difficult to hear. If we compare ourselves to other systems, such as the Spanish system, there's a KRS... Minister Zbigniew Ziobro and his colleagues have decided - this is how the reform was created - that the KRS is transferred from the Spanish system. [[Voice from the room: It is not.]] In Germany, judges don't have immunity. In Poland, you questioned the Disciplinar Chamber. We said okay. [[Voice from the courtroom: It's in accordance with their law, man.]] Madam President, you're not screaming. I know you're nervous. You know what? The judge has now told the whole truth, what you mean. A higher legal culture. [[Voice from the room: You're clowning.]] How are we different from the German people? With what? With what? [[Voice from the hall: We have our constitution and we should respect it.]] Ladies and gentlemen! [[♪ The bell ♪]] In Poland, we elect judges in such a way that the National Court Council, which consists mainly of judges, appoints judges who are finally appointed to judge by the President. It's the prerogative of the President, and you're questioning it today. You're also questioning the National Judicial Council. [[Voice from the hall: Everyone already believes in this fairy tale, go on.]] [[Piotr Zgorzelski, Vice-Marshal of the Sejm, is the chairman of the proceedings.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u186	Thank you very much. Ms Katarzyna Osos will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u187	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mr President, when he presented this proposal, said that it would mobilise funds from the NPOs that it met the conditions set out by the Commission. But unfortunately, you want to eat a cookie and have a cookie, which is to do everything you can not to restore the rule of law in Poland, but you are counting on the Commission to fall for these fictional changes and somehow get money out of the Union. Unfortunately, working on this project is rather a struggle for influence, power, survival, not solving the essence of the case. The Prime Minister often tells others what they should do, recently in Norway. I would like the Prime Minister to focus on Poland and Poles, because it is because of your actions that we are poorer by almost 200 million euros. It's because of your actions that the KPO funds have not been activated. Therefore, let us sort it out and take care of Polish matters, but this project will not be done. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u189	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Minister! Members were submitted the opinion of the Supreme Bar Council on this bill. In this opinion we read, among others.: the project does not refer to the judgments of the Court of Justice and the European Court of Human Rights in Poland, which have been issued in connection with complaints against infringements of the principles of independence of judges and the independence of the courts which have been the subject of their judgment. It is only seemingly aimed at restoring the rule of law in Poland. I have a question for you, Minister of the President's Office. Do you think that the project that we are investigating today will end the dispute between Poland and the institutions of the European Union and Poland will receive the money we deserve? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u190	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Michał Grammar.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u191	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Mateusz Morawiecki, Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Poland: over 90% Cases dealt with by the Disciplinar Chamber against judges are common crimes, rapes, thefts, driving a car in a state of drunkenness. True: since 2018, one rape charge, one robbery charge. All the cases mentioned by your Prime Minister are only 18% disciplinary proceedings, the rest are cases of convictions that are not in line with the expectations of the authorities. Why is the Prime Minister of the Polish Government lying? Why is the Prime Minister of the Polish Government Mr Mateusz Morawiecki lying again? Why? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u192	Please take the floor of Mr Piotr Kaleta.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u193	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Maybe some PSL bills first. One of the PSL members said I should go to the doctor's office. As it turns out, he knows exactly where they are, knows these addresses, but as it turns out, he stays in them too short. [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] [[Voice from the room: Kindergarten level.]] Mrs Dolniak - I wanted to address Mrs Dolniak - said that this law does not restore the rule of law in Poland. You're right. You cannot restore something that is valid in Poland. There is a rule of law in Poland and therefore it cannot be restored. Another point concerns Mrs Gasiuk-Pihowicz's statement. Well, Mrs Pihowicz was gracious to say that the European Union would not stand up for a country that is breaking the rule of law. Member of the Commission, if there is a European official in a moment, a Commissioner He'll figure it out... [[Voice from the room: e.g. Wojciechowski.]] [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...that I'd be obliged, for example. Wear rainbow suits, so what? It's not gonna happen in my presence either... For the love of God, remember that you are a Member of the Sejm, not another Parliament.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u194	Excuse me, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u195	That's another line.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u196	Excuse me, sir, we're in the middle of some questions, and you're making some dictatorships. You're running out of time to ask a question. [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u197	Marshal, show me who asked the question here. [[Voice from the room: Everyone.]] The next thing I know, it's the most important thing to judge the opposition. Why is it such a fierce attack? You know? That's why, ladies and gentlemen, if this bill comes into force... [[Voice from the room: Yes after the time.]] ...that if we're done with this case, you won't have any political fuel. You'll have nothing to talk about. It's gonna end. Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: We will.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u198	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Barbara Dolniak. [[Voice from the room: One bill deletes inflation, expensive. He'll solve all the problems.]] Barbara Dolniak and I are waiting for you and your fellow Members on both sides to calm down their emotions. Allow me to ask you a question. Wait a minute, Member. [[I'm waiting. I'm waiting.]] [[Voice from the hall: The flashlight is on.]] [[That's where the Brussels manual came in.]] Is this the message that accompanies this debate? Is this a message? Did the flashlight go off, the instructions from Brussels? Are these the serious votes of the Members? Are you still happy? [[Voice from the room: 'Cause the flashlight went off.]] Bravo, super, joke of the month. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u199	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This style of work is also the work of the Justice Committee, so don't be surprised that you are also transferring it to the Plenary Room. [[Applause]] We change the rules all the time. We pass the bill, and in a month, half, sometimes next week, we have more amendments. At the Justice Committee meeting, we heard why the Disciplinary Chamber was being abolished. We heard from the President's Chancellery that it didn't work out. Why didn't it work out? Because she's been set up on the basis of bad rules. If the rules are wrong, they will never work in practice. Unfortunately, the consequences of you adopting bad rules are borne by individual citizens when they take their cases to court. They have legal uncertainty, they have concerns about the situation. You are introducing a test for impartiality, but you forget that there is a provision in the Code of Criminal Procedure and in the Code of Civil Procedure that allows the party to apply to exclude the judge in case of doubt as to his impartiality. So what is the real motive for this provision? The point is to scare the judges and influence the change of formations. We can raise a lot of charges like that. A president who gets the right to determine the composition of the Chamber of Professional Responsibility... Minister, in the next draft, will we get a proposal that the president will determine the composition of the department in common court? How about the composition of the court ruling on a specific case? Ladies and gentlemen, this is a direct interference of the executive authority, a policy in the functioning of the justice system. It's about determining the composition of the Disciplinary Chamber. Politicians from the ruling parties, how badly do you want to interfere with the functioning of the justice system? Mr Kalet, you do not know what you are talking about when you talk about the rule of law. Looking at what you are adopting right now, you have to say that she is simply not in Poland. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u200	Thank you very much. Excuse me, miss. Excuse me. Now, if you will allow me, I would like to welcome very warmly, on behalf of myself and everyone present in the Chamber, our dear seniors from Grudziądz, who have come here at the invitation of Mr Szymański. [[Applause]] Member of the Commission on what? [[Mr Kamila Gasiuk-Pihowicz: corrected. One sentence, Marshal.]] One sentence. [[Voice from the room: Yes, because the name came up.]] [[I'm signing up, too.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u201	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would just like to remind you that one of the constant motives of Russian propaganda is to present Russia and Vladimir Putin himself as defenders of traditional morality and the West as the habitat of moral decay. Just a moment ago, we had an example of such rhetoric. It is precisely the disgustingness of the European Union, the disgustingness of EU solidarity, respect for human rights... [[Voice from the hall: Tell that to the Ukrainians who are being murdered today.]] ...is very characteristic of politicians close to Putin. I would advise you to write your next speech with a Cyrillic and deliver it in Russian, because then they'll understand you better in the Kremlin. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u202	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the Left, will now speak if he is in the Chamber. Mrs Skowrońska? I can't see either. Mrs Anita Sowińska must be in the Chamber, which we very much ask to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u203	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Dear guests! Due to the referral of preliminary questions to the TSUE and due questioning of the status of neos judges, the Illegal Disciplinary Board unlawfully dismissed many judges. We all know examples of Judge Igor Tulei, Judge Paweł Juszczyszyn or Judge Beata Morawiec, but there are many judges illegally removed from court and judges who have been persecuted by the executive authority. Yesterday, after two years of fighting, the judge Paul Juszczyszyn of Olsztyn was restored to judgment. The decision was made by the President of the illegal Disciplinary Chamber Adam Roch. He admitted that a two-year suspension was not justified, could violate the constitution, and the judge was not in any danger of being punished. This is a great victory for democracy and I want to emphasise this very strongly. But it's not over. There are dozens of other repressed judges waiting for such decisions. I have questions about that. When are you gonna get the other judges back to work? Who will be responsible for the wrong decisions of the illegal Disciplinary Chamber? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u204	Thank you very much. Mr Kropiwnicki will now speak. [[Don't lie to me.]] Excuse me, sir. Do you want me to start applying the rules of procedure? Because he has not yet entered the speaker well, and there is already the first Member who says, "Don't lie." [[Is he supposed to lie?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u205	He's talking about himself. That's sad. [[Speech Off the Microphone]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u206	I would ask you to calm down, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u207	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This case is very serious because you're trying to clean up this mess you've been making in the last few years. And you've made a really big mess. The judiciary is in decline, and disciplinary justice has actually become a repressive judiciary. You've done this by putting your officers in there, in fact, that we don't have disciplinary justice, but there's a judiciary that wants to beat judges for sentences you don't like. It is outrageous that judges are responsible for judgments that dislike power. And now the point is, you have to give it up. But this bill doesn't guarantee it, because this bill is powdering a dead body. Unfortunately, it is not possible to replace the tablet and say: it will now be a fair judiciary. You just have to fire people like Schab, Radzik, Nawatki, who don't meet any standards of decency or judicial independence. That's where we're going with this. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We should remove judges who do not meet the basic standards. First, does this law guarantee that Poland will receive funds from the National Reconstruction Programme? Secondly, who will pay 1 billion PLN of punishment that is imposed on Poland? These are specific questions. I'm asking for an answer. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u208	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u209	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! To be honest, I am not surprised by this nervousness of colleagues from Solidarna Polska, because, in fact, being responsible for billions of losses, you are trying to scream us here. But you can't scream. There will be a moment when you will be accounted for. [[The voice from the hall: The Lord is all right, I will not scream.]] The truth is, today, this bill is the result of those wrong laws you adopted earlier. Nobody here talks about the fact that the judgments of the TSEU concern the constitutionally incompatible reform of the justice system in Poland. And that is the main reason why we are debating this at all today. The first question, it already arises: Does this law actually fulfil all the requirements relating to the judgments of the TSUE and will it unblock funds from the National Housing Plan? The second question to the government side: Of course, this 1 billion already charged penalties is one thing, but have you valued the actual losses to which Solidarna Polska and the United Right (Bell) have led by not having these funds for a year? Let me remind you that inflation was different a year ago, it was possible to make investments, you could order goods, you could do all this and you could do it and you couldn't do it. So my question is: What real costs have the state budget already incurred due to these justice activities? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u210	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mrs Margaret Navel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u211	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! For many years our relations with the European Union have been based on cooperation, thanks to which Poland has changed for the better. Until the PiS reigns. By pushing between ministers, our country loses huge money from the European Union budget, which could be used to invest and improve the quality of life of Poles. Now we hear that unlocking the KPO money is getting closer. Stop fucking with our eyes. In this context, the question arises: What about the money that Poland lost because of your pushover, 1 million euros every day? Do the actions of the current government, instead of relying on the welfare of the state, have to be based on dragging the rope? When are we gonna hear your word "sorry" for the money you've lost so far? I ask for a written reply, which is (the bell) at the moment the amount to be refunded and who will bear the consequences of these bad actions of the government. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u212	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Jacek Czerniak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u213	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Let me remind you that the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber was announced by Jarosław Kaczyński and Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki. [[Voice from the room: This is not controversial.]] What's in the project? I don't think we understand the word elimination because we're synonymous with suspension, removal, and you're just changing your name in this project, and that's semantics. As regards the evaluation of judges - here gentlemen from Solidarna Polska judge judges nominated by the Council of State or acting in the Polish People's Republic, they say that they are bad judges, that they should be removed, punished. Gentlemen, I offer one more name for your message or information: Andrzej Kryże (Applause), judge, I remind you, for the sake of caution, of the gentlemen who was a minister in the government of Jarosław Kaczyński. [[A voice from the hall: I'll tell you a thousand, and you'll have one.]] Please also mention this in your statements, personal assessments, because it cannot be that some are bad (the Bell) and others are good. Question to the Minister: Isn't the President afraid that Poles will question the composition of the ruling on the basis of these laws later on? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u214	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski will ask the question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u215	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, May 25, to be exact. 25 years ago, Poles in the referendum supported today's Constitution of the Republic of Poland and, together with it, known since the Enlightenment, the principle of three divisions of authorities. Today, this principle of three divisions of authorities is absolutely the foundation in all democratic countries in the world - the foundation of democracy, independence, freedom. I wonder how much freedom and independence you decided to leave to the Polish courts. Zero, Minister Ziobro, exactly zero. This almost worked out because today even a significant part of the electorate of Law and Justice does not believe in the independence of Polish courts. And exactly nobody, absolutely no one in Poland believes in your supposed intention to improve the quality of work of Polish courts, because in terms of the chronicity of cases (the bell) we are in the last place in Europe. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u216	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mrs Claudia Jachira. And I'm asking you to calm down right now.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u217	Thank you, Marshal. Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Committee on Security, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In history it has been so many times that short periods of freedom were interrupted by small people who dreamed of dictatorship. President Duda attributed himself to the efforts of the entire Polish nation to help Ukraine, but in fact he is a painted European. [[Voice from the hall: He is Polish.]] And we've been living in a painted democracy for several years. If he really respected democracy, he would restore independent judiciary, and meanwhile he proposes a project in which he, the president of one party, will be able to elect party judges or anti-Judges. Let us remember that it is this House's duty to protect citizens and citizens so that they do not leave the court with a piece of paper instead of a judgment. Many are fooled, perhaps also by the European Union, which simply assumes good will. [[♪ The bell ♪]] And Duda, Ziobra and Kaczyński's crew are using it perfectly. That's why I appeal: Let's remember what a wolf looks like, bites like a wolf, behaves like a wolf, it's a wolf, not a shepherd dog. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u218	Now the question will be asked by Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u219	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! The law we are working on today must meet three conditions: the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, the liquidation of the KRS and the restoration of judges. The proposal includes the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, but instead proposes the establishment of a Chamber of Professional Responsibility to which 11 judges will be appointed by the President. So the president will receive special, arbitrary powers. Please answer the question: What is the difference between the Chamber of Professional Responsibility and the Disciplinary Chamber in its competence as regards liability? Will this change consist mainly in exchanging plaques on doors or business cards, or maybe the stamp of judges? And finally, that's the question, basically information. For the reform of the Minister of Justice, Zbigniew Ziobry Poland lost another EUR 42 million. And little Zosia (The Bell), 13-month-old Zosia Szczeżewska is weakening because SMA takes away her strength and health. [[Worst populism ever.]] I would like to ask: How many children could this 42 million euro be cured? There's a lot of kids like that, and parents... [[This is not the way to proceed.]] It's okay because 42 million euros, if you can count well, are plenty of children who can be cured for 10 million, and the SMA drug is not refunded. Parents are gathering, parents are begging for help (Applause), begging for money. [[So where were you?]] And you guys are just throwing that money in the trash. The cost of small children and their families. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u220	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki will now speak. [[Game in the O.R.]] Wait a minute, sir. [[Give back the party money because Solidarna Polska doesn't have it.]] [[Voice from the room: Disgusting.]] [[Let Morawiecki give it to me when he sells the land.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u221	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Poles certainly deserve an efficient, independent justice system. Poles deserve European funds. And Poland deserves to take the right place in the arena of democratic, law-abiding states of the world. But you, unfortunately, aren't making any adjustments to this bill. On the contrary, you prove that whoever is more independent, who does not kneel before you, does not bow to your arrogance and shoes, is to be eliminated. You have the audacity to accuse the judges of being involved in defending the justice system, claiming that this is political action, but you have no problem being nominated for the pseudo-Constitution Tribunal by your party friends, Mrs Pawłowicz and Mr Piotrowicz. It's a shame. It's a split personality. On the other hand, I have a question for the President's Office, the Minister, through you also to the President. Does the President guarantee that the adoption of the law (the bell) in this form, with these records, will guarantee the unblocking of EU funds and, above all, guarantee the independence of the Polish judiciary in the end? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u222	Thank you very much. Mr Mateusz Bochenek will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u223	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Under such conditions, it is extremely difficult to discuss and debate when we hear from the benches of the ruling party screaming, smiling. These are not the conditions that should take place in this House. Unfortunately, you do not respect other parliamentarians, nor do you respect the Polish law, the justice system, which we can see and observe every day. Mrs Kozłowska said this very well. The voices that are falling here, about the hundreds of millions or billions of zlotys that have been taken away, and could just be used for medical treatment, for the construction of hospitals, for thousands of new apartments and other important, necessary investments, unfortunately because of the stubbornness of such a small political party, do not allow investment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You do not hear this, but there are still discussions and comments from Solidarna Polska. Unfortunately, we regret that they are not finally able to admit the mistake so that we can get that money back and invest and change reality. But unfortunately, the desire for power is greater. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u224	Thank you very much. Mr Szczerba will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u225	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There used to be a program called Totolotek - a billion on Wednesday, a billion on Saturday. In PiS times we have 1 million on Monday and so it is until Sunday. In total, when President Duda signs this amendment, there will be exactly 1 billion zlotys of penalties that will be charged for failing to comply with the judgment of the TSUE. But, ladies and gentlemen, what is it really about here, and why are we, as an opposition, so persistently fighting for this bill to meet the basic requirements of decency, but also what the European institutions expect of us? Europresident Kosma Złotowski told the truth. I quote: Judge Tuley has been dismissed for a completely absurd sentence. [[A voice from the room: No! You don't know me. Don't lie to me. He didn't know.]] This is a summary of why you want to punish independent judges. For their judgments (the bell), for their judgments, for the truth which they speak when they give reasons for their decisions. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u226	Thank you. Mrs Magdalena Filiks will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u227	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Before I ask you a question, I'd like to say that you're from Ziobra... [[Voice from the room: Minister of Ziobra.]] ... just like cancer in Poland (Applause), something that should have been cut out a long time ago... [[Voice from the room: Nazi language.]] ...because you trashed the rule of law in Poland, the three divisions of power, and all this was needed for you and your colleagues to feel unpunished. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] I'll wait and ask you to count my time.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u228	Gentlemen, I would like to say that you are not here to review the statements of any Member. It's not an ad personam attack, it's just a part of... [[Voice from the room: Hate speech.]] ...the acceptable freedom of expression of the Member. Gentlemen, on the other hand, you will be treated with the rules of procedure in a moment, because you are violating them permanently. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u229	50 more seconds for me. It's just cancer in the state of law. What you do costs Polish and Polish already 1 billion PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] You have made such a mess that will have to clean up after you for a few years, but I would like to say that you should not worry, because now the Member is worried that Solidarna Polska has no money, and in a moment it will have nothing. One little satisfaction is that because of the mess you've made, you have to kneel before the Prime Minister, kneel before the President, swallow your tongue and unscrew everything you've done. [[Voice from the hall: I, ma'am, kneel before the cross, before the Lord God.]] And you're gonna turn this around because you're swallowing your language in front of the European Union today. And now here's my question. We are to vote on a project that is absolutely incompatible - and I am also addressing the President - with the provisions and the EUJEU, and the European Court of Human Rights. I absolutely do not believe that the European Commission has agreed to such solutions as are proposed in this law, because it certainly is not. And the Prime Minister and you talk a lot about milestones. I would like someone to come out here - maybe from you president, not from you, maybe from the Prime Minister - and say what these are exactly these milestones on the road to restoring the rule of law in Poland, which Poland must implement, so that we not only unblock all the measures that cost so much, but also return to the European family of states of law. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Weak.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u230	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Marta Wcisło will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u231	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Supreme Court Act, which could and should have repaired what was trashed in the Polish justice system, unfortunately does not do so, because this project does not solve problems, because thanks to this project the clock of millions of penalties will not stop, and let us remind you that it is almost PLN 1 billion. So much for the debt of all the hospitals in Lublin. This project does not make the justice system apolitical, this project does not unlock European funds, but this project guarantees, ladies and gentlemen, that judges can still be punished, that the muzzle law applies. This project causes politicians to influence the justice system. And there is no agreement, because the justice system should be (the bell) apolitical, law-abiding, that is, we are all equal to the law. But you don't mean equality against the law for citizens. You're talking about impunity for you, for the rulers. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u232	Thank you very much. The question will now be asked by Mr Andrzej Szewiński.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u233	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Perhaps the President had good intentions in preparing this project, while in matters fundamental to Polish democracy, there are no compromises and half-measures for the functioning of the Polish judiciary and this Gordian node should be cut, listening to the voice of the opposition, which is, in total, the voice of the caller in the wilderness, and making appropriate adjustments, e.g. concerning the abolition of the muzzle law, the repeal of the so-called judgments. The Disciplinary Chamber of Unlawful Punishment of Judges or the abolition of unwarranted retirement safeguards for so-called. neosedes from the so-called The Disciplinary Chamber. And the question is: Does the Polish government, through a deformity of the Polish judiciary, incompatible with the fundamental threefold division of power, want to lead Poland out of a democratic family of countries associated within the European Union? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u234	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u235	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! For a few weeks now, we've been watching a market between the President, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Justice. Of course, the smartest of them, Minister Ziobro, has gathered all the PiS members into one bag, led behind the ear and will emerge victorious from this fight under the rug. PiS ruined the justice system in Poland. Ladies and gentlemen, facts. The longest of all European Union countries is waiting for legal proceedings in Poland. Let me remind you that 70% is waiting. longer than it was during the Platform and the PSL. As regards trust in the courts, Poland is in the penultimate position in the European Union. Besides, it happens at a time when we have so-called in Poland. PiS-dark. PiS blocks billions of zlotys for Poles and Poles. At the same time, PiS spent millions of zlotys promoting that he had already received this money. And the last thing - every day we pay for it... so far we have paid, we will pay about 1 billion PLN of punishment. [[♪ The bell ♪]] That's what I hope the voters will consider when they make their next choice. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u236	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Krzysztof Mieszkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u237	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I cannot refuse to ask your representatives of President Duda whether President Duda still believes that the European Union is an imaginary reality, and whether he still believes that LGBT people are not people, but ideology. I ask you to answer that question. For the opposition, for civil society, Paweł Juszczyszyn, judge Tuley or prosecutor Sylwia Wysocka are patterns. These are examples of the rule of law, examples of a fantastic fight for the rule of law, unlike Mr. Attorney Stanisław Piotrowicz, prosecutor of martial law. But I want to say one important thing. One of the important decisions of Law and Justice following the acquisition of power in 2015 was the collapse of the threefold division of power. Law and Justice have subordinated themselves to legislative power and judicial authority. [[♪ The bell ♪]] I am therefore sure that this proposal will not change that. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u238	Thank you very much. The question will be asked by Mr Tomasz Głogowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u239	Dear Marshal, High Seym! We are prosecuting the Supreme Court Act, but it is known that there are also funds for the National Reconstruction Plan, giant measures for Poland. €40 billion is a huge amount that could already work could already be implemented with important social programmes. They could work in our little homelands. In Tarnowskie Góry we are waiting for a program to eliminate environmental bombs. Already in February Ub. Deputy Minister Jacek Odoroba wrote back to me in response to my interpellation that this program was to be implemented from KPO. But these funds are not working because the European Union is not an ATM, but a community of countries based on concrete values. And it is hardly surprising that the European Union is charging fines, has stopped the payment of funds if the decision of the TEUS is not implemented. I wanted to ask how much we would lose, whether EUR 900 million or EUR 1 billion because the government had to play the parliamentary majority and be blackmailed by a small party. And finally, most importantly, what will not be realized? What could this billion (the bell) we lose have been spent on, and what will we have to give up? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u240	Thank you very much. Mr Jarosław Rzep will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u241	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Coalition Poland has long expressed its support for the National Reconstruction Plan. As the only parliamentary club, we supported the presidential project at first reading. We have proposed amendments that have endured all the causes of the KPO blockade and have given hope for its rapid start-up. I wonder if the powdering you made in the committee with the Disciplinary Chamber will lead to the transfer of funds that are not only due to us, ladies and gentlemen - this money should already work in the Polish economy. Mrs von der Leyen wants to transfer this money to Poland, but not because you have drawn conclusions. It's too bad we don't get advance payments, 'cause the deadline's long gone by the end of December. Dear Members of Solidarna Poland, It is because of your foolish stubbornness that Poland loses millions. Right of state, the interests of Poland are confused with the interests of your party, and a false sense of patriotism flows out of your mouth every day only because you do not understand patriotism at all. I hope that one day you will pay this 1 billion zloty of penalties from your rich accounts (the bell) because today Poles will pay for it. And you know what? They're not authorized to do that. It's a shame he still tolerates the PiS, but I understand, because they're your hostages. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u242	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk closes the list of Members to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u243	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the legislative process we have an opinion at our disposal, we can get to know it, the Institute of Legislative and Parliamentary Work of the General Bar Council, which I will allow to quote. In this opinion we read: The draft does not refer to the judgments of the Court of Justice of the European Union and the European Court of Human Rights in Polish cases, which have been issued in connection with complaints against violations of the principles of independence of judges and the independence of courts, which were the subject of their ruling. It is only seemingly aimed at restoring the rule of law in Poland. Minister, I would very much ask for an answer - not political, but substantive - in relation to this opinion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u244	Thank you very much. Now is the time to answer and make speeches from the President's Office and the Ministry of Justice. If you are a rapporteur, you also have a chance to speak. I invite Minister Małgorzata Paprocka, who is the Secretary of State at the President's Office. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u245	Mr. Marshal! Gentlemen of Ministers! High Izbo! First of all, I would like to thank you very much on behalf of the President for the Parliamentary work that has been done so far at first reading and during the work of the committee, and I would also like to respond with great satisfaction to the announcement of the amendment re-establishing the Rule. 7 a project on the test of impartiality and independence in respect of matters already completed. I would like to repeat here, because this is a thread that has appeared in many questions from your Members, that the overarching objectives which were pursued by the President of the Republic of Poland when he presented the draft to the High House today are, on the one hand, to give the Council of Ministers a tool to put an end to the dispute on the line of Warsaw - Brussels and, on the other hand, to introduce a well-functioning, fair, efficient model of disciplinary responsibility for judges and representatives of other legal professions, other professions also mentioned in the draft. And these objectives are to be achieved by this project. The basic assumption of the bill is, of course, the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber and the introduction of the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. There is no way to share the view that it is, as you call it, a change of tablets or a powdering of a dead body. There is one very clear point to this. It is about a completely different model of appointing judges who are to rule in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility. Let me remind you that the procedure here is two-step. In the first stage 33 Supreme Court judges are drawn, and then 11 judges will be appointed by the President from this group during the final term of office. Very difficult to divide Here's the view of this... I think that there are not only a number of misunderstandings here, but directly - misleading the public, because in no way can we put a sign of equality between the composition of the Chamber and the formation of the formations. All judges in Poland, including judges of the Supreme Court, are appointed by the President of the Republic of Poland at the request of the National Judicial Council. And if judges are drawn from this group, and then the President points out, he appoints specific judges to serve as disciplinary judges for the term of office, then he absolutely does not interfere in the formations. It should be pointed out that these judges fulfil all the requirements set out in the Supreme Court Act, have passed the nomination procedure and are judges of the Supreme Court. The second very important element that the project is introducing today is the question of the test, so-called. a test of impartiality and independence. The President, when proposing this solution, was primarily based on the article. 45 constitutions, which give everyone the right to hear his case by, above all, an impartial and independent court. By proposing this solution, the President is giving citizens a tool so that, if they have any doubts, they can request a test. The prerequisites are, first of all, the circumstances surrounding the appointment of the judge, his conduct after his appointment and his obligatory relationship with the particular case in which the application for this test is made. These provisions are proposed to introduce in all laws of the state, there are, of course, indications, deadlines, the manner in which it is carried out, what the court is to take into account. And a very important element, also in the context of this objective, which I mentioned at the outset, i.e. the conclusion of the dispute between Poland and the European Union, are issues, decisions which are provided for in the transitional provisions, i.e. above all, what is happening with the ongoing disciplinary proceedings today. Let me just mention that they will be accepted in the Chamber of Professional Responsibility, and since these are proceedings that are taking place on the basis of k.p.k., they will actually start from the beginning, this is the issue of the possibility of reopening proceedings in cases where the Disciplinary Chamber has ruled, of course, provisions relating to the possibilities of Supreme Court judges today ruling in the Disciplinary Chamber. The President proposes that, in the first step, the judges be offered a different chamber by the first President of the Supreme Court in which they should continue their judicial activities. If they do not accept this proposal, they will be able to retire. This solution, which I would very much like to stress, stems from the fact that judges ruling in the Disciplinary Chamber are simply judges of the Supreme Court. They were appointed on the basis of the same procedure as all the other judges and in no place, in respect of any judgment - including the one which is an obvious context for this project - the status of judges was not contested, nor was the President's prerogatives in connection with the appointment of judges at any point contested. With all these issues in mind, I kindly ask the High House to accept this project at third reading. Thank you kindly, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u246	Thank you very much, Minister. Before I ask the Minister, Mrs Barbara Dolniak will speak as corrected.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u247	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister! If someone gets the right to create a single Disciplinary Chamber, it means that it will affect the composition of this Chamber, and that means that one person will influence what judges will get into this Chamber. Does this mean that it has no influence on the formation of formations? That's the way... [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But I didn't bother you. It doesn't seem right to bother a minister from the President's Office. The selection of members of the Disciplinary Board by one means affecting the formations of the Disciplinary Board. That's one thing. Secondly, Minister, the reference to the article. 45 in the case of a constitution, in the case of an impartial test... Excuse me. Today, citizens have the right to request that the judge be excluded because of doubts about his impartiality. You're just looking for a way to scare the judges. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So much for your project. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u248	Thank you very much. Mr Sebastian Kalet, Minister of State at the Ministry of Justice, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u249	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! What's the argument we're having today? What is this debate really about? The debate on the reform of the judiciary, which we have been conducting for several years, has really focused on one fundamental issue: Can Poles influence who will become a judge in our country? Should we leave the choice of the one who does justice in Poland to the judges themselves? Is it supposed to be that they will choose the KRS from among themselves and then these delegates will select judges in Poland? This is such a cuckoo egg, the most rotten of the rotten compromises of the round table, which the communists left us after overthrowing the commune. These courts have passed to free Poland and communist judges have chosen judges who have chosen new judges, and so it has been going on for years. This reform, which entered into force, led Poles living in a democratic state, where every power comes from the constitution of the nation, finally influences who will become a judge. This is the essence of this dispute, of talking about neo-KRS, of denying de facto Poles the right to give power to judges. No problem when you're Judge Iwulski, the judge since the commune. This is a full-time judge of the Supreme Court, and a young lawyer raised in free Poland, who has passed all the educational paths, passed state exams in free Poland, is no longer a judge of free Poland. I definitely don't agree with this kind of thing. As regards the design of this project as the Ministry of Justice and Solidarna Polska, we pointed out important reservations, which were included in the original version of the project, objections of a systemic nature, objections of the nature of the efficiency of the court's handling of cases. Fortunately, as a coalition of the United Right, we are responsible for our country. We make our reservations publicly, but we know that voters have chosen us to solve problems or doubts that arise. And in the course of very intense discussions - you have also seen that this has been accompanied by emotions, because these are important matters for us, fundamental matters, the sovereignty of our country is not a political theatre, it is a real matter, a concern for the future of our country, a concern that accompanies everyone in the United Right - we have managed to come up with solutions that the Commission has adopted that minimize our reservations. They do not completely eliminate them, but we know that our responsibility for the fate of the state also causes us to step down in certain matters, we need to find the best solution that will allow Poland to further develop at this difficult time, show high standards, and actually gain the fullness of our rights within the European Union, which we unfortunately are being deprived of illegally. But that's what I'm gonna talk about later. I welcome and thank the Law and Justice and the Office of the President of the Republic of Poland that they understand the essence of some of our reservations. Although this was not the intention of the President, it was clear in the course of the work, but the law can be interpreted differently, because it is a written word, it has managed to find solutions that minimize these threats. At the same time, there are risks to the burden of the courts. We hope that these risks will not occur. Nevertheless, an important signal for our voters is that we have overcome these difficulties and found solutions that may not satisfy everyone, but certainly allow us to preserve one thing - the sustainability and primacy of the Polish constitution. A lot during today's debate, the opposition talked about bringing judges back to judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, I personally have many reservations about the work of certain courts, the relationship with you, but I recognise their status because that was the decision. Judge Iwulski is the judge, Judge Tuley. This is the judge. I may not like the way they operate, but they're judges. And Mr Kropiwnicki says to throw out this judge, to throw out this judge. Ladies and gentlemen, we are a legislative authority. According to the Constitution, judges are indeterminate. The legislative authority has no right to remove any judge. And those States' texts on re-establishing judges to rule by law. Do you understand the three divisions of power? The legislative authority cannot say: X, Y is not a judge from now on because we passed a bill. Within the framework of milestones, because this was also a discussion, the question arose as to whether in proceedings before the Disciplinary Chamber one could have the conviction that all rights of judges who stood before those courts were guaranteed before this Chamber. And what does this bill propose? He proposes, since there are certain doubts, also doubts that cast trust in our state so that these judges may request that this be checked before the court, but not before the Sejm, not before any hood court composed of opposition politicians, but before the court, in accordance with procedures, just like any other judge, to build trust, and we build that trust. Only two examples are known in Polish history, for which by law it was indicated that any judgments given in the exercise of administrative or judicial authority in our territory are invalid: the German occupation and conditionally the communist occupation. Suggesting that today's Poland is close to these totalitarian systems, that is spit on blood, spit on the sweat of all those who fought for us to argue about anything in free Poland. But that's your motivation. Neither the European Commission nor the TSEU demand that a specific judge be brought back to judgment. The European Commission cannot do this, because how the executive authority within the European Union can say that the judge should be restored to a specific judgment. We are accused that we are supposed to politicize courts and press judges, and in this case the European Commission would do exactly what is accused of Poland? Even they understand that. And that's why it's not in the milestones. I understand you're desperate, but this is the three-part power division. The judges have, they will have the right to verify the judgments, but before the court, not before you. In general, we have such a situation that what we have been doing around courts for several years, trying to reform, but really trying to keep some of the reforms, is a translation from the world, that we are not camels as a country, translating from the world, that in Poland we do not lock ourselves in the case of judges, we do not persecute the opposition every day, that normally opposition and judges can function in public and private life, because there are stories not from this land, which authoritarian authority has reigned here. Why is this happening? Because Polish opposition together with these judges, they simply lie impudently in the international arena about Poland. You're lying. Unfortunately, I say it with regret, the level of your lies makes our partners think that if such tragedies happen, then you have to react, after all, these are values. And, in fact, because of your lying attacks, we need to keep explaining ourselves and showing the whole world that we are really more holy than the Pope. But in the rule of law there are no limits, in the highest standards there are no limits, sky is the limit. And Poland, which is a bit of a psychic, perverse in the context of your attack, has today become the country that is the most law-abiding in the European Union. Even after this bill will be further strengthened. Why? For years, as a right-wing, we have questioned the way in which cases are assigned to courts. Normally, also in Western countries, there is a rule, there is the head of the department, the chairman of the court, and on some list, judges are assigned to cases, but human infirmities sometimes caused someone's name to go up, some card - down, and oddly enough, there were doubts about whether a particular case had been taken by a judge who had been specifically involved in this case. And what did we do? We've put in place a draw system for judges. You know, knowing the signature of any case, you're going to put it on the Internet and you're going to see what kind of judge was drawn, what factors have decided to draw this judge? There is no such a system in Europe as a whole. The Germans have a similar one, we modeled on it, but so detailed, transparent do not have, no one has. In Poland, we did this in the framework of judicial reform. The choice of judges. That's what we're talking about. In Poland, as one fellow Member rightly pointed out, we have a system as in Spain. But is there a state in the world where the judges at the lowest level, the judges at the regional court... Who's gonna be that judge? There's a transmission of the discussion of the authority that decides that. There's a resolution with justification. We need to show you why this candidate was chosen instead of another candidate. There is no such country. Only in Poland can you see on the Internet a debate about who becomes the lowest-level judge - with resolutions, also with disputes between members of the National Court Register because they occur. What about before the reforms? Yeah, well, the judges picked judges for the KRS, colleagues, and then behind closed doors, they pointed out who was gonna be the judge. Why was a person X and not a person Y chosen? Nobody knew, because it was not broadcast anywhere, it was not justified, for in a long time the Third Polish Republic could not even appeal such a resolution. Such appeals are functioning today. Then, democracy, the rule of law. And now? Murder and lack of self-government. Ha! But okay. Germany was often mentioned. In Germany, as you know, you are trying to forget this, there are no KRS, only a group of politicians, 16 Members of the Bundestag, 16 Land Ministers headed by the Minister of Justice, and they are sitting. They're gonna rally about the judges. They choose the Supreme Court judges in this group. They're politicians. They don't need judges there for anything. Do you think wherever you can read the transcripts of these meetings? Broadcasts to see? Of course not, all behind closed doors. Or did they schedule a contest to make it transparent? Oh, no, no, in Germany, it comes with a candidacy, it's official, it's a candidacy. This must gain the approval of the Minister of Justice. Can you imagine that Mr Ast, the chairman of the Justice Committee, would bring the Minister of Justice a candidacy and the Minister of Justice would say, "Agreed," and we would already have a judge? It's in Germany. The Germans teach us about the rule of law, you encourage them to take our money and impose sanctions on us, and they have this system. In this House, I must listen to this foolishness, for apologizing, how you humiliate yourselves (Applause), how you humiliate our country, how you humiliate our tradition and history, the desire to be free. It's unacceptable. We have the highest standard and now the test of independence, thanks to precise changes, as the Union also requires. The site has to prove... There must be a connection to the case. Because it's not true that any TSUE ruling undermines the status of any judge. That's not true. These are your dreams because you want anarchy, but that's not true. There is no such test in any other country. Of course, thanks to you, we have to prove that Poland is not bad, we have to write the obvious into the rights, but we are typing, because we do not have bad intentions. We care about fair justice, fair justice, transparent justice. And it will be, because this process is not over. Thanks to you, Poland today is a model of the standards of transparency of the judiciary. In fact, we can really thank you for this, although of course the fact that we still have to face sanctions is a great difficulty and it should not be, but we have higher standards than others - such a consolation prize. There have been several lies in this debate about the situation in the judiciary, the efficiency of the recognition of proceedings, and how judicial reform is progressing. Ladies and gentlemen, there have been lies about court statistics. Cases are significantly accelerated following changes in procedures that took place in 2019. The changes took place in 2019, the future pandemic, so we are feeling the effects now. After the pandemic, the courts are already significantly accelerating. But in Europe... Here were some words that we were somewhere in the last place. This is ridiculous. Second place in terms of speed of identification of civil and commercial cases. In the other categories, we're more like inside, but never at the gray end. Why are you lying like that? One last, very important thing. We have a lot of disputes about fundamental matters of the state, about how judges are called in Poland, about the Supreme Court. Often some say to us, "Why don't you guys take information from the courts, it'll come in handy for people. After the reforms we have introduced in recent years in court, 30 cases are only electronically recognized in Poland. The entrepreneur starts a company, changes the company's name and doesn't even have to move from the workplace, get up from the desk, do it from the house by coffee. That's the system we put in last year. Lawyers and lawyers had to go to court for copies of the KRS, for copies of the perpetual books, for information about their case. They do everything from their computers. The pleadings do not circulate from the secretariats through the post office back to the law firm. Everything's been given electronic power of attorney. We've made these changes in recent years. We have made a number of other changes: court fees, remote trials, transmissions in several thousand courtrooms in Poland, securing all these recordings so that each party can see them, drawing cases about which I have spoken, and dozens of other systems that serve citizens today. Here we are arguing about the principle, about the sovereignty of Poland, and in the privacy of offices the legal system of paper becomes digital. But you don't care, because you - just a fight and a fight, not a job for Poland. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u250	Thank you very much. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Justice and Human Rights in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 3 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Culture and Media on the Parliamentary draft law amending the Act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws (prints 2121 and 2277). Can we ask you here, below, at the Registry, for silence, because it interferes with the driving? I would like to ask Mr Piotr Babinetz to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u251	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Culture and Media about the draft law amending the act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws, print No 2121. At its 54th meeting of 12 May 2022 in accordance with Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm have been submitted to the Committee on Culture and Media for consideration. The Committee on Culture and Media addressed this project and worked it very closely on 24 May. A number of amendments were tabled during the work. First of all, with regard to the scope of the centre's operations... I would like to remind you that this is about the centre which, in connection with this amendment of the law, is to be called the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski. So these amendments tabled and adopted at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media concern the extension of the centre's activities from the area of Polish-Ukrainian, Polish-Belarusian and Polish-Russian relations to activities, dialogue and agreement in relations between Poles and Eastern European nations, in particular with Ukrainians, Belarusians, Georgians, Moldovans and Russians. And so it is consistently stated in further records. The aim is to highlight cooperation, to highlight the possibility, the need to cooperate generally with the peoples of Eastern Europe, and in a special way with Ukrainians, Belarusians, Georgians, Moldovans and Russians. There is also a change in the sections, the provisions on the financing of projects. The aim is to amend the existing provisions concerning Ukraine, the Republic of Belarus and the Russian Federation already in the draft amendment into those relating to countries which are parties to the Association Agreement with the European Union and to agreements with the European Union in the area of a deep and comprehensive free trade area. In this way, on the one hand, we are expanding the number and scope of these beneficiaries, countries that can reach for measures, but on the other hand, we are excluding countries that are aggressors. Another very important change is to extend the scope of the Centre for Dialogue's capabilities through the next amendment. Juliusz Mieroszewski for the creation of local branches, not only in the country, not only in Poland, but also abroad. This is in a sense, on a comparative basis, a similar situation as in the case of an increase in the scope of the Pilecki Institute's activities. Not so long ago we introduced such an amendment, an amendment so that the Pilecki Institute could operate not only in Poland and Berlin, but also for example. in New York or Tel Aviv, where it is especially needed. In this case, it will be valuable if the Eastern European Centre's branches can be established. Juliusz Mieroszewski. Finally, an amendment on scholarships. To date, the amendment included a figure of not more than 5%. Subjective grant, now we are proposing that it be no more than 15% that grant. The aim is to ensure that such funds can be transferred from the Centre's budget to scholarships. At the moment, it is practically about supporting young Ukrainians to a greater extent: students, researchers, scientists, but in the perspective it is also about representatives of many other Eastern and Eastern European nations. So this gives much more opportunities for the activities of the scholarship fund. At the same time - because there was a discussion on the subject - this does not change the fact that more funding from the Centre's budget will continue to be spent on grant programmes, funding for various projects, cooperation in the area of Central and Eastern Europe, including research, publishing, meetings or conferences. It may be worth pointing out here that these amendments which I tabled on behalf of the Law and Justice Club are actually similar to those tabled by Mr Paweł Zalewski on behalf of the twenty-fifty circle, so that there was an agreement here, you can say, over the divisions. [[2050.]] It can be like this, so be it: 2050. I understand that this is the prospect of victory in the 2050 election. So, in fact, these amendments were very close, moving towards Mr Zalewski's amendment. The aim is to extend the scope of cooperation to such nations or states as Georgia and Moldova, and at the same time only those countries that are associated with them can benefit from funding. Yesterday, during the work on the law, there were still some comments at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, and perhaps more than a few comments, but above all more doubts raised by the Legislative Office. We have taken some of them into account. On the basis of these we have clarified some provisions concerning e.g. Using other labour law provisions, we have left only a provision on the Labour Code as more transparent and unambiguous. We have also clarified that the new centre in the new formula may, but it does not result from the fact that it must, carry out to the end the current Polish-Russian projects. After this thorough examination of all the entries involving the Legislative Office, they were actually aclamated, unanimously adopted, along with the amendments made by the committee yesterday. It is worth to add here that they have been very involved in these activities in order to change and extend the scope of the Centre of Dialogue, Mr Piotr Gliński, Minister Jarosław Sellin, and, in the case of detailed work, the current director of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding, although already in the idea of the Centre for Dialogue, Mr Ernest Wyciszkiewicz, and Deputy Director Mr Łukasz Adamski. Yesterday's work also supported us by the director Agnieszka Grunwald representing the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage. In general, it must be said at the end that the Committee on Culture and Media after considering the above draft law on 24 May this year. asked the High Sejm to approve the attached bill amending the act on the Centre for Dialogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u252	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Piotr Babinetz will be the first to speak, once again, as a representative of Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u253	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice regarding the draft amendment to the Act on the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement now in the shape it took as a result of yesterday's work by the Committee on Culture and Media. Let me remind you that the Law and Justice Club introduced a draft law amending the Act on the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding and some other laws. Main changes included in the initial project the amendment is a change of name to the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski. Let me remind you that the name itself has already hindered cooperation with Ukraine, with the Ukrainians, and now, in a time of genocide of Moscow's aggression to Ukraine, it almost prevented contact with Ukrainians. This name, of course, comes from the fact that it is a reference to the concept of the Mieroszewski ULB - Ukraine - Lithuania - Belarus. An important change was the extension of the purpose and scope of activity of the centre, which we also extended to Polish-Ukrainian and Polish-Belarusian relations, not only Polish-Russian relations. Now, as I said in the report, we have added the need to involve the Centre of Dialogue also in Polish-Molduvian, Polish-Georgian relations, and more importantly it is about taking care of Poland's relations with Eastern Europe. The resulting changes were also obvious, e.g. such entries in the tasks of the Centre, such as dissemination in Poland and beyond its borders of knowledge about the political situation, history, culture, heritage of the peoples of Central and Eastern Europe, as well as the financing of projects, as well as the extension of Polish-Ukrainian and Polish-Belarusian projects. And now, after the work of the committee, there is funding for projects involving Georgians, Moldovans and possibly other peoples of Eastern Europe, with this subject, of course, concerning aggressor states through these provisions concerning association agreements. Finally, there's a change in the scholarship fund. As far as the increase is concerned, there was an initial 5% in the amendment. , now we are increasing the possibility of providing support through scholarships for the inhabitants of Central and Eastern Europe to 15%. We are looking forward to taking advantage of this opportunity especially for a scholarship for young scientists, researchers or students from Ukraine, but this also applies in the perspective of representatives of other nations. I think it's gonna be a job for the next few years. A completely new amendment is a provision allowing the formation of branches of the Centre for Dialogue, also abroad of Poland, which will facilitate direct cooperation with many Eastern European nations. The next provision I have already mentioned is a clarification from which countries the institutions will be able to draw on the resources for the activities of the Centre for Dialogue, so that on the one hand these beneficiaries may be much more, but on the other hand, they will not be able to finance the aggressors. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Since the legislators still raised some doubts about the precision of some provisions of the amendment to the Act, and they did not take the form of amendments during yesterday's work, I am now reporting on behalf of the Law and Justice Club another amendment to change the wording of the article. 13th draft law. After its possible adoption, a fragment of the article. The Council of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement referred to in Article 13 will have the following text: 6 point 3 of the Act as amended by Art. 1 becomes the Council of the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski and acts, in his current composition, until the end of the term of office commenced before the date of entry into force of this Act. Mr. Marshal! I'm handing over the amendment to the Law and Justice Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u254	I thank you very much for your speech and for your amendment. Position of the Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u255	Sorry, it's not over yet. Mr. Marshal, it's not over yet. I have one more minute, so please let me finish.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u256	I am so sorry, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u257	I have tabled this amendment, which clarifies one of the entries that was put into question by the Legislative Bureau. In conclusion, I think that the activities of the Centre for Dialogue in a new, much broader formula will be the correction of the mistake of 2011, when the centre was established only Polish-Russian, which excluded from cooperation between Ukrainians, Belarusians, Moldovans, Georgians and a number of other Eastern and Eastern European nations. I am not talking here about Estonia, Lithuania or Latvia, because they are in other relations with Poland through not only belonging to the European Union, but I would say that primarily to the North Atlantic Pact. These relations have been close for a long time, although of course there are various problems, but at the moment these relations with Lithuania are also improving. I also think that this will be a reference to old concepts of Jagiellons, Vases, Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski and newer ones: Marshal Józef Piłsudski, Henryk Józewski, Jerzy Giedroyc (Dzinek) and Juliusz Mieroszewski. First of all, it will strengthen our good cooperation and friendship with many nations of the vastly understood Intermarine and will contribute to the expansion of a zone free of Moskal, a zone of freedom and a security zone. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this bill. Thank you very much, Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u258	Thank you. I would like to ask Mr Thomas Olichwer to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Civil Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u259	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Civic Coalition Club on the draft law amending the act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre. The three-month criminal aggression of Putin in Ukraine, unfortunately, has shown that we should radically change our attitude in the way we think about the Polish-Russian social dialogue, so we fully agree that the functioning and running of such an unambiguous institution as the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement during the period of the war based on genocide carried out on the Ukrainian people by the Russian aggressor, and also, given the favourable attitude towards Putin's regime of a large part of Russian society, after it was completed, would be a big failure. The change of name and expansion of activities to support the fighting Ukrainian people for their country and the fighting for freedom and democracy of the Belarusian people is a good solution. This is also in line with the thesis of the editor-in-chief of Paris ŻCulture by Jerzy Giedroyc, who already claimed many years ago that it could not be free Poland without free Lithuania, but also without free Belarus and Ukraine. The international and political situation has recently shown clearly that our country must be open to close cooperation with other Eastern European peoples who support the values of freedom and democracy, and it is therefore a good idea for the Committee on Culture and Media to adopt an amendment to extend the activities of the dialogue centre to act on the same rights of dialogue and agreement with Georgia and Moldova. It is also important that the dialogue centre will be open to cooperation only with the part of the Russian people that condemns Putin's criminal regime. Honoring in the name of the center of dialogue Juliusz Mieroszewski, a 20th-century Polish journalist, journalist and political writer, who advocated dialogue with both Russians and Ukrainians and Belarusians, is a good idea. In view of the above, the draft law presented in the message does not raise our doubts, but I would like to end by calling on the applicants of this law, Mr PiS, to apply more closely and not write draft laws on their knees in the future so as to avoid the situation that took place at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Culture and Media. The draft of this law had already had its first reading at the April meeting of the Sejm, which is why we were surprised by the fact that the Legislative Office of the Sejm had to correct your project several times yesterday. More professionalism, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u260	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak will now speak, who will present the position of the parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u261	Mr. Marshal! Minister! Mr Fellowships and Mr Fellow Members, Today I am pleased to present the position of the Coalition Club of the Left on the draft law amending the Act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws, from print No 2121. The project returned to the plenary room following amendments adopted unanimously by the entire committee during its work in committee. I would just like to remind you that the bill submitted was intended to transform the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding into the Centre for Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski and broadening the interest of the centre, so that it deals not only with Polish-Russian relations, but above all with Polish-Ukrainian relations, but also with Polish-Belarusian relations. During the committee's work, the scope of the new centre was also extended to include Polish-Georgian and Polish-Moldova relations, which, of course, should be praised as an amendment which makes this project even better than it was originally. I mentioned at the beginning that it was my pleasure to present the position of the Left Club today. Pleasure here is not just an ornament, because it is really difficult not to feel satisfaction, contentment and pleasure in these rare cases, when a political class can look beyond its own interests, over the period of its own term of office and reach of the influence of its party, and see how important our good neighbourly relations with Ukraine, Georgia, Moldova and with people of good will in Belarus and Russia are for our region. Today, almost 250 million people live in these countries: Poland, Ukraine, Belarus, Georgia, Moldova and Russia. It is almost a quarter of a billion people whose fate has been intertwined by history and geography, a quarter of a billion people who have the future of the wider region in their hands and can decide how to face the challenges of today and what awaits us in the future. Although there is a war going on behind our eastern border today and dialogue is silent among the bangs, I am glad how rarely in this House. We're all running our minds and plans into the future, which I think we're all in agreement on, just like on the committee. We need to improve relations with the eastern neighbours. Creation of the Centre for Dialogue Juliusz Mieroszewski is a step in the right direction and I hope that not the last, that he will follow another, even stronger and more important. I see this step also as a significant sign of political maturity, which sees the strength of the country through the number and durability of built bridges, not fences, by strengthening cooperation rather than blowing up animosity. However, in order to achieve this, we need to understand each other. Observe the interests, concerns and circumstances of the partners in order to support each other, strengthen cooperation for common benefits and deal with the problems they will face. The activities of individuals such as dialogue centres are strong support for the development of bilateral but also regional relations. We must do our utmost to ensure that in our region these relations are based on mutual respect and recognition of the right to self-determination of the nation, the right to freedom, as well as on democratic principles. Finally, also by the way, because it is a question unrelated to this law, the club of the Left submitted today a draft resolution on support for the redemption of the foreign debt of Ukraine. This debt waiver will be necessary now that the soldiers are fighting on the front, and it will continue to be needed when peace comes, so that Ukraine can rebuild the roads destroyed by the Russian troops, houses, jobs, so that it can quickly enter the path of European integration. I hope that Members will support this solution. High Izbo! The left-wing club, as regards the print project No 2121, the draft law amending the act on the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre and some other laws, wants to vote in favour, wants to work further in the committee on this project. I hope that there will be more projects that will connect us and not divide us. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u262	Thank you very much. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz will now present the position of the Parliamentary Club of Poland. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u263	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Act amending the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding at the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski, who is already the subject of debate and second reading in our House today, is only seemingly of such an organisational and technical nature, although most of the entries - if someone wanted to look at the text of the document we are discussing - are of this nature. The aim is to maintain the continuity of the work of people employed in the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre, to maintain the continuity of the functioning of management staff, to ensure that the awarded grants and already signed contracts for the implementation of projects retain their power, and, despite the change in the name and nature of this institution, to maintain the continuity of the procedures and scholarship agreements concluded by the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre. It also has a political dimension and it is very obvious. This change is a reaction to the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, which began on 24 February, and in particular the mass of crimes committed by Russian invaders in Ukraine. It is understandable that in this situation, instead of focusing on dialogue with Russians, with Russian society, we are changing the formula of the functioning of this centre to cooperation with the closest neighbours of the Republic of Poland: with the Ukrainians, with the Belarusians, with the Lithuanians, and - thanks to the amendments and proposals of Mr Zalewski - with the Georgians and Moldovans, and with all future societies that will join the European Union or sign association agreements with it. I would like to point out that, on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club, I am pleased that we have taken into account our request at first reading so that we do not completely close ourselves to representatives of the Russian society, those who have not been deceived by the propaganda of war, more broadly, do not believe in this strategy, in the myth of rebuilding the power even more soviet than the Tsarist one, to try to maintain dialogue with these Russians. 'Cause even if there's 10% of them today, maybe even less, this is the valuable part of the Russian society that must not be lost from the sight of which one must help, to shake hands, because it may happen that these people will have a much greater influence on the change of position and way of thinking of the Russian society. I would like to say one more thing, in fact, to repeat the words of the first reading, that it is indeed very good to choose a patron, who will be included in the name of the new centre, i.e. Juliusz Mieroszewski, who was actually mentioned by Mr Babinetz, is one of the wizards or visionaries - beside Jerzy Giedroyci, but not only those who are already contemporary, sub-reversive - establishing cooperation, partnerships between Poles and societies and nations that once belonged to the First Republic. However, I cannot agree with Mr Babinetz that the appointment in 2011. The Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding was a strategic mistake. These were other times and indeed alongside programmes which were implemented by, for example, foundations of international solidarity, aimed at Ukrainian, Belarusian, Lithuanian, Georgian or Moldovan societies, it was worth paying attention in particular to the Russians, especially after the occupation of Crimea and after the rebirth of imperialism, the imperialist spirit in the Russian people. And since you mentioned Prince Jerzy Adam Czartoryski, I would just like to remind you, Mr Czartoryski, that he was, however, a supporter of the development of the Polish state within the Russian Empire, a great friend of Tsar Alexander, and even a significant politician of the Tsar government, the Russian government. So, knowing what's going on in Ukraine, and the critical assessment of what today's Russian policy looks like, let's not forget the decent Russians. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u264	Thank you very much. I'm getting the impression that it's bound to happen in a moment that he won't be so enthusiastic about the Giedroytian idea.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u265	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I think it is important to say, first of all, that the centre of Polish-Russian dialogue was an unstoppable initiative, that firstly, the Russian Federation, as illustrated by the war and aggression on Ukraine, is not interested or has to be convinced only in a very painful way that it is, is not interested in partnering with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. And the second thing is that this initiative was so empty that, however, the advantage of a state factor, a government factor over any society, civil society in Russia is so powerful that this dialogue did not really have the conditions to function at all. Of course, I share the opinion of my previous speaker that this does not mean that it is necessary to forget Russia at this point or to separate from any dialogue with Russia, with Russian society, with Russian cultural spheres, because despite everything that is happening in the international space, despite the aggression against Ukraine, despite these crimes the Russian state will not cease to exist, the Russian Federation will also be our neighbour, even considering Kaliningrad. Ladies and gentlemen! The Russians simply had to find out on their own that the project of the empire in Central and Eastern Europe was already a song of the past. What has happened over the last 8 years is particularly important in this context, because in some ways it was Vladimir Putin himself who invaded in 2014 who liberated the vast decks of Ukrainian self-identification, the willingness to defend his country, his people, and in 2020 he sealed it by bringing disaster to Kiev... [[Room voice: 2022.]] What did I say? ...in 2022, defeating Kiev, already military. So in 2014 he lost, you can say, ultimately for Russia the hearts and minds of the Ukrainians, and in 2022 he suffered a military defeat and lost Kiev, seems, forever for Russia also in terms of force, military. These facts should have their significance in Polish Eastern politics and so I treat (The Bell) a change of character of this center. There's one more thing I'm gonna talk about at the end. Let us remember that the foundation of good relations in Central and Eastern Europe, between our peoples, must be two things: firstly, of course, respect for political sovereignty, territorial integrity of countries that are neighbouring, secondly, respect for cultural, linguistic, educational rights of our people and all other national minorities in this area. This is a region that has a difficult past. Poland meets all the standards regarding the protection of national minorities in its territory and we must expect the same, in the same spirit also educate our partners, especially from Belarus, Lithuania, Ukraine, because unfortunately it does not look so good there.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u266	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Paweł Zalewski will now speak, who will present the position of the Parliamentary Circle of Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u267	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! This really is a special debate, because it is rare to be able to express satisfaction with the work in this House, because together we are wondering how to solve a problem that is important for Poland and Poles. I thank President Babinetz for running the committee in a spirit of cooperation and for including the amendments that we have tabled on behalf of Poland 2050. The aim was to extend the scope of the Centre's activities to Moldovan and Georgian. This is a very important instrument, which receives the Polish state, an instrument which is intended to be used by dialogue with the peoples of Eastern Europe. The point is that we better understand the nations that are east of us, but also that they better understand our culture, also our values, which is important. You can say that this is an element of soft power, soft force, soft influence. Each respectable country should have such instruments. And I must admit that Poland has recently been successful in such a soft impact, especially after the entry into the European Union, and we are in favour of a model of system transformation, a model of development. Before the war, Adolf Bocheński said that the best indicator of which country has the best influence is whether citizens of another country want to settle in it. Indeed, today Poland, for various reasons, dramatic, is very, very seriously fulfilling such a criterion. But it's more important than that. The point is that Belarusians, Ukrainians, Georgians, Moldovans see in Poland this model of system transformation, this model of democratic development. But in this context - here the attention to the government, the attention to the majority of the parliament - is extremely important credibility. This credibility is achieved in practice thanks to respect for democracy, respect for the Constitution in Poland, and with this, gentlemen, you have huge problems. This also involves the credibility of Polish functioning in the European Union, and Poland is beginning to have very serious problems with it. [[♪ The bell ♪]] In order to maintain the soft impact and credibility of the values to which we all refer, we must make a very serious improvement probably after the elections next year, after the formulation of the new democratic majority. To sum up... [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal of the Sejm Włodzimierz Czarzasty]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u268	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u269	...is a good project and we will vote in favour of it, of course. Thank you, Marshal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u270	Thank you very much, sir. Let's move on to asking questions. 11 people came in. I'm setting the time of questioning - 1 minute. Please, Mrs Iwona Maria Kozłowska, the Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u271	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Of course, the proposed direction of change is right, it is right. But I would like to ask about the current situation at the Polish-Belarusian border. We are a great help to the citizens of Ukraine. But what about those on the border with Belarus who are certainly there in difficult conditions, where a wall was created in a literal sense and figuratively? Those who have not been miraculously sent back to Belarus and who have managed to apply for international protection in Poland are sent to guarded barbed wire centers located in active military facilities. These people in these centers don't have names, names, they have numbers, they stay in terrible sanitary conditions for a few months. In small rooms there are up to 24 people. They don't have access to doctors, they don't have access to lawyers. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Some of these centres, according to their residents, are simply Guantanamo. What is the government going to do about it? How will this tragic situation solve these people? At the Polish-Ukrainian border there is a lot of good...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u272	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u273	Mr. Marshal, one minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u274	I'm sure it's not a minute, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u275	...and on the border of the Polish-Belarusian people are experiencing Gehenna. Please respond and respond. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u276	Thank you very much. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Marshal, Mr. Marshal... [[I'm back again.]] There you go again. Ladies and gentlemen, I don't know if Marshal Zgorzelski told you about this. The meeting is scheduled to be concluded today at 3 p.m. Two o'clock in the morning. Therefore, while respecting the Members and Members, we will try to make up for some time so that your colleagues, our colleagues, do not sit until the hour. Two o'clock in the morning. That's why I'm gonna watch my time. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. There you go. And I cordially greet you, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u277	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding will change its name to the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue. Juliusz Mieroszewski. A good step is, of course, to extend the dialogue to include countries such as Georgia and Moldova. I hope that this institution will indeed serve research, scientific, publishing, educational cooperation, both in Polish-Ukrainian relations and in relations with the countries mentioned earlier, with which Poland can get along very well and be friends. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u278	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u279	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question only about this extended activity under the new laws for countries other than Russia. Such activities, business expansion and dynamics are likely to foster contacts with organisations that operate in partner countries. Question: "Has the centre tried to identify this topic in some way, and whether there are any organisations that can already be said that cooperation will be carried out on a principle, I would say, continuous?" I would very much ask if there is such a group of organizations to respond in writing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u280	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u281	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Transformation of the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding at the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue Juliusz Mieroszewski, whose mission would be to Poles and to the Ukrainian, Belarusian people and to the part of the Russian society that condemned Vladimir Putin's crimes, is the most appropriate solution. In the current situation, no one imagines working with the Russians on the same principles as before. Our country needs an institution that will lead a serious and responsible Eastern policy. At this stage, do the authors of the project assume how about a percentage of the aid is to be distributed when it comes to the above mentioned. countries? Is it planned to extend the centre's activities to other Eastern European countries in the future? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u282	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u283	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to confirm that, indeed, the full agreement of the Committee on Culture, clear support for these changes, shows that we are able to communicate on many issues, and that is very important. I would like to thank the ideas and authors of the project for their patron - Juliusz Mieroszewski. It is very good that we are trying to remind this famous, talented journalist, publicist, political writer. Thank you for that. At the same time, I would also like to draw your attention - I hope that this will not happen - to the fact that even during this meeting, 55th meeting of Members of Solidarna Polski, who sat on benches during discussions on the previous project, mocked some nations and European countries. I hope that it will not happen that one day this institution, this centre of dialogue, will have to take care of dialogue and agreement with the peoples of the European Union. I'm warning you against that. Today I see a lot of unnecessary emotions, malice, and harassment against other nations. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u284	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. I don't see a Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, Poselski Klub Poselski Leży. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u285	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The voters asked me: What does the Centre of Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding do? What are public money from their taxes earmarked for? What does the staff of this institution pay for? It is a good thing that we change the scope of the Polish-Russian Dialogue and Agreement Centre's operation by this law and add further countries with which the dialogue will be conducted. It is also good that the management of this institution resigned from the competition already announced and cancelled the competition for the Polish-Russian youth exchange. I am convinced that the scope of the action that is being discussed will encourage Poland to engage in a broad dialogue with the countries listed in the Act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u286	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz. There isn't. Mr Piotr Adamowicz, Civic Coalition. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u287	Thank you, Marshal. Minister! High Izbo! After the aggression of Putin's Russia to Ukraine, the changes in the scope of the centre's activities are absolutely justified and right. Let me draw your attention to the fact that in this situation there is a question - important both today and tomorrow - which concerns the approach to Russia and its neighbouring enclave, the Kaliningrad circuit. Are we supposed to have an unctim in the future, that is, is Central Russia equal to the Kaliningrad circuit? Is the Kaliningrad region equal to central Russia? Of course, the Kaliningrad region belongs to Russia. However, one might ask if the Kaliningrads are the same Russians as the Central Russians. Maybe they're not. Over the years, most Kaliningrads certainly got to know European Poland better than residents. Siberia or Vladivostok. This is why the question (the bell) arises about the meaning of nuanced activities of the centre as regards the Kaliningrad region and Russia. Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u288	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u289	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! Every dialogue is important and very good that this law extends its activities to other Eastern European countries. Of course, dialogue with Russian society, with the Russians - especially in the context of the war in Ukraine - is also extremely important. We must be aware that, of course, not all Russians support war or have access to reliable information about what is happening with our eastern neighbour. I have a question for the Minister. In principle, of course, the bill will probably gain very broad support. Does the Ministry already have any specific programmes to be implemented? Will local authorities and NGOs also be involved in these programmes? It is very important that this dialogue takes place as low as possible, i.e. between citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u290	Thank you. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u291	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! This is what makes us happy when we stand at the Seym Council and speak with one voice in principle, condemn aggression in Ukraine, condemn the crimes that the Russians commit, who murder, rape and destroy what Ukraine has been creating for many years. It is therefore clear that the Centre for Polish-Russian Dialogue and Understanding cannot continue to function. After all, it is not only about changing the name but also about opening up to dialogue with other countries. It's an important and very important direction. The recognition of the right of other peoples to sovereignty, territorial integrity and democracy is absolutely fundamental. Let the Sejm of the Republic come today with this signal that there is no permission to hate, to commit crimes, to war. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There's no permission to kill another man. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u292	Thank you very much. Mrs Margaret Prokop-Paczkowska, Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u293	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Centre for Dialogue extends its activities to further countries. We're happy about that. We will support this bill. Since there will be more work because there will be more contacts, is it expected to increase the budget for this institution in the next year's budget? How much? I'm asking for an answer. That's what I'm thinking, too. Russia is, of course, an aggressor today. We condemn this aggression, but one day, hopefully, the war will end. Maybe today it's worth thinking about the contacts between us and those Russians who are against this aggression? I'm sure they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u294	Thank you very much. I ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Culture and National Heritage, Minister Jarosław Sellin, to speak. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u295	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen! First of all, I would like to thank 24 Members from my parliamentary club for coming out with such a parliamentary legislative initiative. Of course, this has been met with great enthusiasm and support in the management of my department, because it is obvious that the change in the scope of this institution's activities, which we have been subject to for 11 years now, has to happen and is happening. I would also like to thank all the parliamentary clubs, all the Members who have so far been involved in the work on this project, for the creative amendments that have been largely absorbed in this project, and for the uniform, unanimous, one can even say support for this change. In this way, from time to time, we in the Polish Parliament have been able to demonstrate consensually what is the Polish right of state. As far as specific questions are concerned, there were several of them. The first question was actually more addressed to the management of my government or to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but let me answer Mrs Kozłowska, because I am also a politician and not just a ministerial official. However, it seems to me that every Polish politician should see the difference between what was happening on the Polish-Ukrainian border and on the Polish-Belarusian border since the autumn of last year, and understand - if he can look at politics horizontally and not emotionally - what action Putin and Lukashenko started against Poland and against the whole West in the context of what happened later. This action to bring economic immigrants from many countries to the Polish-Belarusian border in a sneaky way, to break it down, push it through and cause a serious crisis not only in Poland, but also in the West, was evidently a preparatory action before war aggression, a specific war invasion against Ukraine. Those who do not see it simply lack political imagination, and perhaps politicians should be expected to do so. And I am surprised that such voices are still falling, even though we see what these two dictators were talking about and what plan they were trying to implement through this illegal invasion of the Polish-Belarusian border. After all, these economic immigrants did not come to border points, legal border points, to try to get to the West, but pushed the Polish border in an illegal way, in illegal places, and we know what it was all about and what it was supposed to do. This allusion, which also fell in the words of one of the messengers, about the fact that bridges should be built, not fences, is, of course, quite clear. No - I am responsible, we must build a fence, because it will effectively protect Poland and the whole West from continuing the plan of sealing the Polish border, and thus the border of the European Union and NATO border. And we do it effectively, very well that we do it even before time. This fence will serve Poland and the whole West well. Mr Mirosław Suchoń asked who the cooperation will be with in the new countries that we have added to the tasks of the Centre to them. Juliusz Mieroszewski - because we want this institution to be called. This is obvious, in these new countries we need to work together - as experience has shown so far - with Russia, with journalists, with independent scientists, with NGOs, but also with state institutions. In the centre, experienced people work, who are interested not only in Russia, but in the East at all, are passionate, you can say, countries, nations that lie east of our border. We know that they already have contacts with the new countries that they will be dealing with now, or with the new nations - and here I am calm about the ability to identify with whom it is worth establishing contacts and who it is worth working with in those new countries that we are tasking with the new centre. I mean, it's not a new center, it's a new center. Mrs Małgorzata Płępek asked if other countries were involved. In this act we left such a gate, that apart from the five listed countries to which the centre is to deal, it also has an open opportunity to deal with nations living east of the Polish border, and it is known that there are more of these nations than the countries that we have listed. So it's obvious that you can work with the nations. E.g. It seems to me that such cooperation can be established with the Armenians and that there will probably be some expectation that it will be associated with the Tatars, so it is obvious. Thus, in the centre and among its employees there is a good understanding of the multinational structure of those countries which are listed in our amendment to the law. Mr Jan Szopiński asked what the centre had so far been doing. We talked about this in the first debate, but maybe I'll do it again. The Centre, with the task of dealing with Russia alone for the time being, of course, reached Russian civil society with its activities, proposing a dialogue on Russia, proposing scholarships, for example, proposing cooperation with the Memorial, which is, as you know, probably already delegated in Russia, but here contacts were very alive. They tried to build the Polish lobby - which is not easy, of course, but such attempts were - to promote knowledge of Polish history among the Russians, especially about Katyn, but not only, and to promote the Polish perspective on Russia, our understanding of Russia, our wiser understanding of Russia in Western countries, which - as it turns out after what we see now - very often in Russia's understanding turned naive. And we didn't sin with that naivety. And that's also what the center has done so far. Mr Piotr Adamowicz presented a distinction which I did not fully understand, between Russia and - I am sorry, I will use the name of the royal circuit, although I know that in documents, even official, this circuit is called differently. But because Kalinin was one of the criminals who signed under the act of Katyn's murder, I do not get the name: Kaliningrad's circuit, so I will use a good Polish historical name associated with the Polish historical name of the leading city which lies in that circuit, the King's, so it will be the royal circuit. I don't see any distinction here. Unfortunately, this is part of Russia and there the centre has been active in the form of grants, various sports events with children and young people. This is, of course, an area closer than this central Russia, so there have also been various types of activity so far. Mr Grzegorz Rusiecki asked what new programmes the Centre would propose. Of course, as soon as the legislative process is complete, we will move on to a working discussion with the Centre on what programmes can be launched in those new countries that are tasked with the centre. I think that the experience of previous activities in Russia can be largely copied in terms of activities in Ukraine, Belarus, Moldova or Georgia. I already know that the center is preparing, for example. to some educational work for Ukrainians about Polish history, so that the knowledge of Polish history is greater. And what you have proposed as part of the amendments - and well, thank you - is that the Centre is preparing for the establishment of branches, because such a statutory possibility of the Centre will be: to create branches in these countries. I think, of course, we should start with Kiev, but perhaps this plan will be more ambitious. Ms Małgorzata Prokop asked about the budget. So far, the entity grant to the centre amounted to 6600 thousand. zł. This is the budget this year. But of course, any cultural institution that is subject to us can always apply for the so-called. special grants for any specific action not provided for in the budget under the subject-matter grant. And that's what happens, too, and it's gonna happen. However, this budget will, of course, need to be increased in view of the enlargement. Once we sit down for this specific, substantive conversation and find out what plans the Centre has for the second half of 2022, we will, of course, budget it. You asked about the budget in 2023. I assure you that we will increase this budget in 2022. Of course, in 2023 there will be consequences of an increase in the budget in 2022, and this budget will certainly be higher, because we want this action to be ambitious. You also asked about your contacts with the Russians. It is known that there are good people in Russia, there are environments worth working with. Now you can't see them a bit, because they're being persecuted because they're being harassed and their voice doesn't sound, but that's the kind of people they are. I found that out a year ago when, at the request of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I received a group of several journalists from Russia at the Ministry of Culture who wanted to talk about how Poland cares about Russian and Soviet graves, war cemeteries in Polish territory. Honestly, I thought it would be a difficult and aggressive conversation on their part, and it turned out that in this group of several journalists there were only journalists opposed to Putin's regime. Today, of course, they probably had to hide somewhere, probably their editors were rushing, their radios were shut down, portals, etc., etc., but they are. Maybe some of them emigrated, I don't know, but they are. So, of course, we will look for such contacts, because we are all counting on this drama, which appeared after 24 February, a full-size war, first, ending with Ukraine winning, and secondly, leading to some internal changes in Russia. We all dream of it, we want it, we watch it. When these internal changes occur in Russia - I hope in the right direction - we also want to know who to talk to. It's obvious. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u296	Thank you very much. I would ask the rapporteur, Mr Babinetz, to speak. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u297	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! A few comments. First of all, regarding yesterday's legislation, I find it very unwise to charge the Member of the Civic Coalition with regard to yesterday's work. The correction block I submitted had nothing to do with the Sejm's Legislative Office. These were our own reflections in cooperation with the Centre for Dialogue's Directorate, so as to clarify some things further, just to expand the activities of the Centre for Dialogue for the next nations of Eastern Europe and so that foreign overseas branches can be established. There were only two minor amendments that I made in line with two concrete suggestions from the Legislative Bureau. And the third amendment today, which, of course, has been clarified with regard to the comments of the legislators. On the other hand, the rest of yesterday's doubts about the Legislative Office were rather a discussion of the legislator with itself, so it was difficult to call it some specific legal comment. However, the problem was indeed this form of law which was adopted by the Civic Platform in 2011 despite our opposition. The law itself, the idea of seeking dialogue and agreement with Russia, with the Russians, was not bad, but this exclusion of Ukrainians, Georgians, Moldovans or other Eastern European nations, other Eastern European countries from that law and the activities of the former centre was a major political mistake in terms of our need for cooperation in Central Europe, Central and Eastern Europe in terms of our security issues in Central and Eastern Europe. It was a very bad formula, and I think everyone in Poland has known Russian mentality, Moscow mentality for several hundred years and Russia's activities for several hundred years, and that is when it comes to Polish political elites. It cannot be that only a brutal, genocide war in Ukraine allows us to understand some of the Polish political elites as the enemy and evil is Moscow. And several hundred years of hostile, murderous, genocide activity of Russia, including various perfidious actions against Poland in recent years, has not given such awareness to many people. It's weird. The same is true of this situation at the Polish-Belarusian border. After all, it was part of at least the hybrid war between Belarus and Russia against Poland and the prelude to the war of Russia against Ukraine, but also against Poland and against Europe. If someone didn't understand it then, then you can still understand it, may not understand it, but consider it, but if someone doesn't understand it now, it's already very strange. On the other hand, in view of some comments on the formula of the centre, I would like to say that this formula is very broad. On the one hand, it enables cooperation with all the peoples of Eastern Europe, some are listed directly, it says that the Centre for Dialogue allows cooperation with all the peoples of Eastern Europe, and on the other hand it does not exclude cooperation with free environments in Russia or Belarus. What is important, in the area of interest of the Centre for Dialogue there are and there will also be Poles in the East, including among others. Russia and Belarus. I also agree, however, to speak of the King, because in fact on this genocide order concerning the murder of more than 22,000. soldiers and Polish intelligence, commonly referred to as Katyn's crime, is the annotation of Kalinin - pro. On the other hand, as part of the Centre for Dialogue's activities so far, I will no longer repeat what I said a few weeks ago in the Sejm, was among others. cooperation, youth exchange between Poland and the royal district, including cooperation in the youth field, sports with the Russians from the area of the King. From other important activities carried out so far by the Centre for Dialogue, it is worth recalling the virtual guide Katyń Pro Memoria to the cemeteries in Katyn, Miednoje, Kharkiv and Bykownia, scientific conferences in Poland and abroad, and above all source research in Russian, but also Ukrainian and British archives, scientific publications, editions of sources regarding Polish-Soviet relations, collective monographs, among others. Russia's violation of international law. Despite these restrictions imposed by the law, the Centre also tried to conduct activities in the Polish-Ukrainian area. And finally. Among some, one can say, the patrons of this contemporary activity of the centre, especially the one which will now be conducted more widely, I named Prince Adam Jerzy Czartoryski. I will remind you that he was indeed Russia's foreign minister, but then he came to his senses. He dethroned the Tsar, the next Tsar, not the one he was the minister with. He was even sentenced to death by Russia, perhaps even by cutting off an axe. Why were we talking about him in the context of one of the patrons? Because he later supported the Caucasian nations in their fight against Russia and built a coalition of Slavic nations in terms of breaking them off, liberation from Moscow domination. Once again, I would like to thank all Members and all those involved in this bill. I think it will be adopted by the Sejm together tomorrow. Because there is only one amendment tabled, if I have noticed correctly, I think we will be able to vote in the voting block without having to refer it to the committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u298	I don't think that's right. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Culture and Media in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Mr President, it went to the committee. We proceed with the examination of item 4 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises ¿Polish Public Railways (prints No.204 and 2280). I would very much like to ask Mr Jerzy Polak to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, sir. Gentlemen, thank you very much for coming. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u299	Mr. Marshal... [[The voice in the hall: no government representative?]] Minister Bittel called a moment ago. It arrives, it can be at any time, so there is a request for patience and understanding. It's an independent situation. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present a report by the Committee on Infrastructure on a draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises of the Polish State Railways (Polish State Railways), prints No.204 and 2280. The High Chamber, after its first reading, was held. the draft law on 11 May addressed the draft to the Infrastructure Committee. This meeting, at which the government initiative was considered, was held yesterday. The Commission recommends the adoption of this report and proposes that the Act be passed by the High Sejm in the wording in which it was annexed to the printing. I would like to point out that yesterday no amendment was made, at least until now. On the other hand, as rapporteur, let me briefly recall the most important changes made to this project. Firstly, I think that from an investment, social and local point of view, it is important to increase, and this is significant, the envelope of resources of the Railway Local and Regional Infrastructure Complement Program by 2028, from the current limit of 5600 million to 11 200 million in the form of treasury securities issued by the Minister of Finance, to recapitalisation of PKP PLK, with the allocation of these funds for railway investment, which will allow the country to carry out many additional railway projects. Secondly, the purpose of the bill is to improve the transfer by the Polish State Railways of assets which are necessary for the operation of the railway infrastructure management business, to PKP PLK, including by means of acquisitions or in the formula of the transfer of organized parts of the company, which includes in particular railway property which has been in the power of the State Railway Undertaking since 2000 and are now in the power of PKP SA. With regard to this first objective, which is set up by the government initiative, i.e. an increase in funding for the Railway Local and Regional Infrastructure Complement Scheme by 2028, I would point out that local authorities have notified a total of 96 applications, which concerned both linear and point projects. In the course of the multi-criterial substantive evaluation, which has yet to begin, which is worth recalling, in 2021, within the current limit, PKP PLK positively assessed 46 of 96 complex projects for an amount of about 16 billion. The programme is financed by the recapitalisation of PKP PLK under Article. 33 in the Act on Commercialisation of PKP, and the current limit of recapitalisation established by the Act, under which 5600 million funds were secured, allowed only 17 major projects to be implemented. The increase in funding adopted in this bill by obtaining additional funds from treasury securities, as I mentioned earlier, to increase the share capital of PKP PLK by an additional PLN 5600 million up to the amount of PLN 11 200 million, will allow the implementation of not 17, and a total of 34 large investment projects. These 34 projects are indicated on the basic list, while the remaining 12 of the 46 projects were positively evaluated on the so-called list. the reserve list. 34 linear projects in 11 voivodships are now eligible for funding under the increased allocation, while the remaining 12 projects included in the reserve list, i.e. four additional linear projects and eight so-called Point investments, i.e. in the common language of railway stops, will depend on the release of part of the allocation available under the Railway + ¿ programme, e.g. by resigning from signing the contract with PKP PLK by the applicant of the project from the so-called. the basic list. The total amount of financial resources allocated to the implementation of the railway programme, i.e. the total amount of funds from the recapitalisation of PKP PLK and, which is worth noting, the financial commitment of local government units, will increase to the amount of PLN 13 200 million, i.e. in summary, the share of local government units totaling PLN 2 billion in the country. I am now moving on to the second objective of the government initiative, which is equally important, i.e. continuation of the restructuring process of the former state enterprise Polish State Railways. I would point out that another of the proposed amendments to the Act of 8 September 2000 on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State Enterprise Polskie Koleje Państwowe is necessary to complete the process of transferring assets to PKP PLK as a non-monetary contribution, including the import, which are located on the requiring division of property of land with already regulated legal status, and requires the introduction of specific provisions on tax settlement which will be charged to PKP SA in connection with the transfer of property and settlement of remuneration for the use by PKP PLK SA of the components of railway lines covered by the contract concluded on the basis of the provisions of the Act in force before 25 May 2003. That's another line. On the basis of the article. 17 Polish Railways Act PKP SA were obliged to equip PKP PLK with the assets necessary for the management of railway lines. The amendment of the law, which I mentioned in 2003, was required by PKP SA to contribute in kind to Polish Railway Lines, railway lines within the meaning of the provisions of the Law of 23 March 2003 on rail transport, which included all expenditures excluding land included in non-regulated railway lines and fixed assets in construction. Turning back historically to ownership processes, I would stress that in 2005 PKP SA contributed to PLK as a non-monetary contribution in the form of an import of fixed assets necessary for the operation of railway traffic and the management of railway lines without land on which they were located, consisting of around 80% length of all railway lines managed by Polish Railway Lines. In recent years, in 2017, it was launched and the process of making a non-cash contribution to the Polish Railway Lines is still being implemented in the form of an organised part of the company consisting of other components of railway lines with a share of approximately 20% of the length of railway lines managed by the company, i.e. Polskie Linie Kolejowe, and the assets necessary for the Polish Railway Lines to carry out business in the field of the management of these lines. Proposed further amendments to the Act on Commercialisation of PKP additional articles, i.e. Article 2 24ba and Art. 24ca, in principle, are identical to the so-called. the solution in force in previous years, i.e. Article. 24b and Article 24b 24c. In addition to the extension of directories which are subjectively different from the Polish Railway Lines of Infrastructure Managers, we are talking here in particular about the wide-range steel industry and about SKM in Tri-City. These changes concern, in principle, the possibility in subsequent years, until 2026, of accounting for import income tax and rent tax on goods and services under this framework agreement, on the basis of which PKP S.A. paid funds consisting of railway lines under the so-called. the transfer of shares. It is also worth noting that about 31 thousand companies are currently eligible for the formula of bringing an organised part of the company into the country. Land parcels and several thousand fixed assets, which means, given the scope of the operation and the manner in which the assets were transferred, that the tax would constitute a significant value in billions of PLN. Finally, I would also like to refer to the fact that the repetition of the statutory arrangements allowing the payment of tax charges by transferring the ownership of PKP PLK to the State Treasury is also justified because the preliminary estimated amounts of tax duties to be transferred to be paid by PKP SA would require the sale of the company's assets for this purpose, but also because of the provisions of European Union law which require the preservation, which is obvious for each of us here, of the independence of the railway infrastructure manager from other entities on this regulated rail market, and thus of the limitation of the participation of PKP in the shares of the Polish Railway Lines. Summing up what I said at the beginning: the committee yesterday considered a draft law amending the Act on the amendment of the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises ¿Polish State Railways and asks for its adoption by the High Sejm as set out in the report. I stressed that no additional amendments had been tabled, at least until now, in the course of the work, so that I am pleased to note that this project was supported by practically all parliamentary clubs and was being conducted in a very substantive and sensible atmosphere yesterday. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u300	The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I invite Mr Jerzy Polak, who will speak on behalf of the Law and Justice Club. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u301	Mr. Marshal! Coming up against the request that the Marshal sent a few minutes ago, to proceed in such a way that tonight's sitting does not end in the middle of the night, I will allow myself to shorten this speech...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u302	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u303	...the more that I had just finished reporting the draft of this government initiative as rapporteur. Of course, the club's opinion is most positive. We recommend that you accept this project. I can only say with satisfaction here that these two objectives, which are included in this government initiative, i.e. firstly, the completion of the property restructuring processes, which started 20 years ago on the railways, even during the functioning of the state-owned company PKP, i.e. the Polish State Railways, and secondly, a very significant increase in investment in the implementation of the programme of complementing local and regional railway infrastructure from PLN 5600 million to PLN 11 200 thousand. zł, increasing the number of investment projects from 12 to 34, involvement also in these projects of measures, i.e. own participation of local authorities, which are very actively cooperating with the government party, with Polish Railway Lines, with PKP SA, are of course worth supporting. It's hard to add more here. I will not repeat the legal arguments relating to cleaning matters as regards railway property. I will not develop specific issues related to specific investment projects. It was also widely commented in the press and this nationwide, and local government. I can only stress with satisfaction that, as far as these two objectives are concerned, the Ministry of Infrastructure, recommending a government project, puts this forward in a very professional, competent manner. It is a concrete policy and, above all, the implementation of the programme assumptions that Law and Justice and the government chosen from our political group simply intends to implement, in practice, here, in this part that concerns, say, many linear investments in railway and bus infrastructure, and station infrastructure. It is incorporated into a number of other investment processes carried out by PKP SA, by Polskie Linie Kolejowe. This is a complementary programme and worth simply supporting by all political forces. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u304	Thank you very much. You didn't cut it a bit. [[Voice from the room: only 2 minutes.]] [[Janusz Korwin-Mikke: We did it, we did it.]] ...but thank you very much for that. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State-owned enterprises ŻPolskie Koleje The state does not raise much doubt. We talked about this at first reading. We confirmed this declaration at the meeting of the Infrastructure Committee yesterday and we do not change our mind. We support these solutions. We pointed out that the Minister is a brave man because he used good designs from the PO-PSL coalition's term of office and wrote these solutions into this law. The Minister is partly brave because you have not confirmed it, although I have asked the Minister not to be afraid to talk about the good patterns of his predecessors. But I read into the Professor's statement summing up the previous debate. I asked you to tell me how you assess the effects of privatisation. The previous title of the Act is: about commercialisation, restructuring and privatisation of PKP. We've had two big privatisations. As far as PKP Energy is concerned, the State no longer has an influence on this, but it has announced that this impact wants to regain, and has been requested to annul the privatisation of PKP Energy. I asked how the Minister's recovery of the State Treasury's power over this company was going. I didn't get an answer. [[Voice from the hall: You sold it.]] But PiS said he was gonna get that company back. [[Voice from the room: But the worst decision was to privatize Energy.]] I also asked what the condition of the largest freight carrier, PKP Cargo looks like. This is where the government stays because only part of the stock has been sold through the stock exchange. The shareholders who bought the company's shares are worried that the company is still losing value. I asked for an assessment of the condition of this company, because Poles have the right to know how to manage public property. In this case, the company could have noticed an improvement in the results in the first quarter of this year. But did it reverse the trend enough, not the best in the previous 3 years? I'd like to know about that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u306	Thank you very much. I would like to ask you, Mrs Karolina Pavliczak of the Left Messenger's Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u307	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We accept this law as an important and orderly railway infrastructure that had to be arranged. The new rules provide for PKP to transfer assets that are needed for both management and supervision activities to PKP PLK. This revision and the direction indicated are also appropriate in the area of use of railway areas which are not currently used and will be restored to use for transport purposes. I also consider it appropriate to allocate funds from the Railway Fund to the financing or co-financing by the voivodships of tasks relating to the purchase and modernisation and repair of passenger vehicles carried out under a public service contract. However, I must, unfortunately, add a word of criticism to this positive assessment. In our view, doubts are about tax issues. PKP like any other entity is obliged to pay taxes on transactions carried out. While the order contains an authorisation for the Minister responsible for public finances to allow, by means of a regulation, payment of certain taxes by securities and, of course, lays down detailed rules for the use of this form of payment, the date and manner in which it is made, as well as the type of security and the method of calculating its value for the purposes of payment of the tax, due to the potential amount of taxes on the proposed transfer, the payment of the tax by shares - an unprecedented solution - will result in substantially lower monetary, actual tax revenues. That raises our concerns. It is also impossible to ignore the phenomenon of communication exclusion when discussing this project. I pay particular attention to this, because the exclusion of communication is a problem that affects even a dozen million people in Poland. Without well-organized public transport - no matter what form - a visit to a doctor who receives in a remote village, e.g. By 20 km, it becomes an expedition, and public transport becomes a luxury and a peak of dreams. We talk about such places: the end of the world, and in Poland there are still places where no bus or train arrives. I want to make it clear that close to every fourth town in Poland does not have access to any public transport. Transport policy must not be separated from other policies pursued by both central and local authorities. At national level, it should be complementary to demographic policy and at local level integrated with education, health and social policy. Transport of the future in Poland should take into account these needs, the need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by developing railways and increasing the availability of collective transport. It's extremely important, and remember that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u308	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u309	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Commercialisation according to the Commercialisation Act of 30 August 1996 consists in transforming a state company into a single-member company of the State Treasury. Since 2017, the commercialisation of a state-owned enterprise has been carried out at the request of the Director and the Staff Council of a State-owned enterprise. The founding body may also do so on its own initiative. According to the provisions of the Act of 8 September 2000, the commercialisation of the PKP was to be carried out - it was to be carried out by the Minister responsible for transport - within 3 months of the date of entry into force of the Act. It's been 22 years since then. The Ministry therefore presents us with another bill, which, as I understand it, is to correct the mistakes of its predecessors. I do not want to mention and tell you how many billions of zlotys in 2019 went from the budget to this company of the Treasury. On the other hand, we as Left are in favour of the development of railway links, on the other hand - for the development of Polish railroads. Therefore, we will give the government a chance by voting in favour of this law. On the other hand, we want to be convinced that the reduction of tax revenue to the state budget will eventually succeed and that we will manage to take control of the shares in PLK, now or in six months' time, so that we will not be paid further billions to this business. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u310	Thank you very much. I would like to ask Mr Stefan Krajewski from the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u311	Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - PSL, the Union of European Democrats, Conservatives to present their position on the report of the Infrastructure Commission on the draft law amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of State Enterprises ¿Polish State Railways ¿, prints No. 2204 and 2280. The bill is not controversial because it should not be controversial at all. Such a long discussion here seems unnecessary, because it really concerns technical issues: transfer of land, transfer of the fetch. Of course, securities and real estate can also be transferred. Those cleanings have to be done. It takes order to build this infrastructure, change it, and it's a good thing that it does. By the way, the government is also bragging about investment here. Indeed, there should be a lot more money, because much more money is transferred to rail in this financial perspective and will be transferred in the future financial perspective. They're gonna put a lot of money in there. All you have to do is analyze which lines should be modernised, built. The main thing is that these lines are later used and used. Sometimes you see stops in a field that nobody uses, or lines - here we heard about these connections - which were upgraded and which were to be carried out a great transport, and rarely happens there to see a moving warehouse. [[Applause]] So we need to analyze all of this and, of course, implement it as soon as possible to make it effective. So, in line with the expectations and requests made earlier by your marshal, I will end by saying that the Coalition of Poland will, of course, support this project and will not comment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u312	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you for your help. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u313	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to start by presenting a wider background and inform you that the fact that private lines were built in China, which run at a speed of 1000 km/h, as Mr. Elon Musk wanted, is not true. The same was done in China as in Poland, the PKP, such Chinese state railways. In 2008, it was decided that the railways would go faster. It's been 14 years, Chinese railroads travel at 350 km/h, and in 2025 they'll be driving 600 km/h. By comparison, the European Union. I have looked at the European Union's programme, ladies and gentlemen, and I have read this programme in the field of rail. I've seen that there's to be modernity, there's to be progress, security, etc. - not a word about speed. No, there was one thing - you have to reduce the speed of trains. Ladies and gentlemen, Europe is a wall, a museum, and unfortunately we are a tight backyard of this museum, because I see that instead of thinking about building a railway that will drive 300 km/h, we will be wondering which piece of land to pass when it comes to PKP PLK, and it will be the main occupation of companies that deal with the railways in Poland for the next two years. Incidentally, I noticed that this was supposed to be called commercialization, but the first sentence is that it needs to be recapitalized. So what is this commercialization that you have to finance? In order for the Polish railways to be capitalised, they should simply act on a commercial basis. As my previous speaker rightly pointed out, at the moment railroads are being built to take bribes for this or that - of course bribes can be in the form of electoral votes - to meet the wishes of the population to get railroads that are completely uneconomic. I personally took a train on the tour, as I recall, Nowy Sącz - Kraków, where on a train of five wagons in the first I sat, in the last one there was a train driver who wasn't paying, and the rest of the train was empty. Such trains go on, and surely someone demanded that something not be destroyed so that it would continue to go on to the general joy of people. As long as there's no market until the railway lines fall, we have to close those lines that are unnecessary. Railway lines running 300 km/h are reasonable, railway lines like today just have to be taken and closed. You have to have a clear vision of what a railroad competing with airplanes should look like. If I'm going at 300 km/h, I'm going to Szczecin in an hour and a half, and it's a competition for an airplane, right? It's an excellent competition for an airplane. On the other hand, the railway lines that travel at a speed of 70 km/h (The Bell) are simply nonsense and people will not use it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u314	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u315	Thank you very kindly. Dear Marshal, Minister! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 on the governmental bill amending the Act on Commercialisation and Restructuring of the State ŻPolish State Railways. Ladies and gentlemen! The proposed law aims to change several areas. The first concerns the transfer of real estate to PKP PLK, the second concerns tax regulations. I have a reflection here after this debate. The Law and Justice representative said that tax legislation is about avoiding a sale of national assets. I must say that it does not sound very credible if we look at the sale of Lotus stations, which could have gone to the Polish company, and are supposed to be in Hungarian hands, basically Hungarians, who represent the Russians, and that does not happen. There's also a third important area. It concerns an increase in the level of funding for investments under the Rail &amp; Rail programme. This is done by recapitalisation of PKP PLK. This amount increases from PLN 5.6 billion to PLN 11.2 billion. This is, of course, an extremely important project in our view, which allows for many investments in this railway area, which, as part of the slim financial capacity of the local government, would not be possible to implement, and are part of a local communication system, a regional communication system. In this way, this communication within these small homelands can prove to be more efficient, more efficient. It should be noted that here also local governments will put more than PLN 2 billion, if I remember correctly, into these projects. This is extremely important because it is a great effort from local governments, which, as we know, these funds are getting less and less. However, for Poland 2050 the issue of railway investments is extremely important. And we were surprised to see that, although this pool, which would have to be used for more projects, doesn't have to grow relatively much, the government decided not to implement all the projects. That is why we are making an amendment that aims to increase in 2022, 2023 and 2025 the limit (The bell) of tax papers that can be transferred to investment by a total of PLN 0.5 billion. This is the amendment I'm making to the hands of the marshal...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u316	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u317	...with a request for admission. This will be even better for the development of rail connections. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u318	Thank you very much, sir. Thank you very much. Let's move on to asking questions. The questions are in total 19. Set time - 1 minute for questioning. Mrs Gabriela Lenartowicz, Parliamentary Club of the Civic Coalition. I would like to invite you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u319	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The issue of the programme and the availability of communication, and above all access to low-carbon collective transport, is extremely important because there is much talk about the exclusion of communication. However, I would like to raise the issue of exclusion in a different way. We have places where the railroad doesn't reach, but we also have places that, according to these uncoordinated proposals - I'll tell you what - the railroad runs away. And that, too, is the exclusion of communication. Let me give you an example: the municipality of Mikołów. We have here a project awarded with Żolei + ¿, and good, because it is actually a question of availability and increased capacity, but at the same time a high-speed rail project is carried out in parallel, to which the inhabitants do not agree. And they're excluded because they won't even be able to get on (the bell) of this railroad. A similar situation is with two lines of Hawks - Katowice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u320	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u321	I have a question. Is anyone coordinating these projects because they're already in other resorts? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u322	I would like to ask you, Mrs Katarzyna Kretkowska, from the parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u323	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! With only 1 minute, I will ask only one question about the situation that takes place in Wielkopolska, mostly Wielkopolska. Multi-minute, multi-hour delays on the Berlin-Warsaw route are everyday and effectively discourages us from using them for the purposes we are talking about: climate, exclusion. There are no arguments against the use of the railways. Ladies and gentlemen, I went to Warsaw from Friday to Saturday for 10 hours. The delay was 7 hours and not because there was a failure of the system, only because Poland does not have modern multisystem locomotives which were allowed in Germany and without which there is no entry into Germany. I do not know if you know (the bell) that it is everyday, regular, that the PKP is waiting for locomotives in Nowy Tomyśl, in Poznań, which come back from Germany, the ones that are going to exchange them.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u324	Thank you very much, madam.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u325	This waiting is a few hours usually and delays are a few hours.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u326	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u327	This can't be right.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u328	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u329	And that's the way it's supposed to be until 2025. Minister, you know exactly what I'm talking about. Tell me what you're gonna do about this situation, because she's the top of the absurdity, that we tolerate it, and that's the way it's gonna be. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u330	Miss, thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Suchoń. You're welcome. [[Hello, this is the land.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u331	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Minister, I have a few questions and I would very much like a written reply. First - high costs of access to the rail network. Unfortunately, this implies, on the one hand, a very serious barrier to the development of rail transport on the other hand. Is the Ministry thinking about a change in this area? The second point is that railway lines are being renovated, but trains do not return to them. Silesia Cieszyński is an excellent example. There is a beautiful, renovated line, but the Marshal of the Silesian Voivodeship, a notabene colleague of the Minister of Law and Justice, said that trains would not go there for at least a few months. What's the point of renovating the tracks if there's no trains on them? There's one more thing about the vehicles, the bus. I have a question: Is the Ministry (The Bell) working on some solution that would introduce more simple buses, uncomplicated, capable of transporting up to a few dozen people, but efficient? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u332	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u333	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! Agree on this issue that we are working on a project that will enable the State Treasury to take over PLK shares in exchange for tax. It's about the subject. But this is an opportunity to talk about what you're not doing. I'm sure you can see me, Minister, on the stand. It's going to be about the Mielec station. I've been making requests for a railway program for seven years. Where you're building line L25, where you bring a prime minister who doesn't stand behind his back to have a station that you didn't put on this program, just so he's on the other side to have a nice picture... When will this station finally be included in the station program? Since you have given extra money for rail+ and it will be almost PLN 11 billion, I am asking (the bell) to give 10 million PLN to the railway station in Mielec. You can afford it. Let's get to work. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u334	Thank you very much, thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u335	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, It is hard not to commend that there will be 34 projects instead of 17, for the fact that you will spend not PLN 5 billion, but PLN 11 billion on the development of railway infrastructure, especially as this will apply to these cities over 10,000. inhabitants who so far do not have passenger connections, but it is also necessary to publicly tell Poles that such development cannot be at the expense of citizens, and it is taking place and the inhabitants of the sub-Łódź estate Mileszki, Wiączynia Dolny, Brzezin, Lutomierska and Prusinowice know about it. [[Applause]] They're the ones who are worried about their own homes and their lives today. It is necessary to remind all Poles, who do not know this yet, that this government is preparing a bill in parallel, which is to rob Poles, which is to change the rules on expropriations to significantly adverse. There's one more thing to add. Minister Horała is responsible for preparing this project, who (The Bell) does it for himself in order to save money at the expense of Polish citizens. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u336	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Claudia Jachir, Parliamentary Club Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u337	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the National Security Committee. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The journey by rail should be the norm, but it is not the norm for those excluded by transport, for those without a car who have several dozen kilometers to the nearest railway station. It's not normal when trains are notoriously late. It's not normal if old stations are ruined, not build new ones. It is not normal if new connections are not created in the wake of the new settlements. It is not the norm when only some trains are adapted to carry bicycles, and even when there are these adapted places, there are only a few. It is not the norm if people with disabilities have to ask others for help while travelling. It is not the norm if we go to European capitals from Poland with several connections. It is not the norm when even at newly renovated stations signs are non-intuitive and travelers lose themselves. It is not the norm when available elevators are often broken. It is not the norm if the railway stations are not grouped (the bell) with the rest of the collective communication. I love the railroad, but I want it to be simple, comfortable and accessible to everyone and everyone. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u338	Thank you very much. This is not an isolated voice, my lady. [[I'm so happy for you. I hope so.]] You're welcome, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u339	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Recently, it has become very fashionable to buy the same goods by the government and its subsidiaries many times. An example of this may be respirators, which were first paid by the government, then purchased by the State Treasury company, so that none of these buyers would appear in the final. Well, I very much hope that the history of buying the shares of Polish Railway Lines will be of interest to the Supreme Chamber of Control, will present the whole course of the transaction from 2010 until today and will show the public how much money it had to spend on this purpose from our taxes, which our homeland has. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u340	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u341	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, In response to my interpellation, in March you informed that in April the construction of the railway station of PKP will begin, including the shopping centre in Konin. It's May 25th today, the construction hasn't started. Is there any hope that this construction will begin? If so, when? Next important issue: this stop program provides for the construction of new stops, among others. in Białężyce, the municipality of Września, by the car factory, and in Szydyków, the municipality of Kramsk, but also the reconstruction of platforms in the village of Słupca or the stations themselves in the towns of Mirosław and Orzechowo. I would like to ask: At what stage are these projects implemented? When is there a chance for them to be realized? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please respond in writing. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u342	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u343	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The project itself concerns an increase in the budget from PLN 5.6 billion to PLN 11 billion, so that there will be half more linear investments. But, Minister, I think I can ask on my behalf and, I think, your marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u344	There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u345	We would like to know what these investments will be, these additional 17 investments in the Śląskie voivodship. Above all, we are interested in investing in cities of Sosnowiec, Bedzin, Dąbrowa Górnicza or Zawiercie. If such investments were there, we would be very pleased to hear from you when they are implemented. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u346	Well, yes, Minister, the same constituency, I'll be happy about that, too. Please, Mr Tomasz Piotr Nowak, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u347	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! How is the railway+ on the example of the Konin-Turk route counted? There will be a bus for 600 million PLN. But that's how it's supposed to be - there's a bridge on Wart, there's two overpasses, one on A2, one over 92, there's all the infrastructure buyouts, and so on. and reconstruction of parts of Konin's infrastructure. Do you believe that 600 million is enough? Probably not. If that's the case with this program, then I'm worried about the whole thing, if this whole thing is rational. And for self-governments these 15% It's going to grow, it's going to grow forever, and they're not going to figure out how to tighten their budgets. Minister, second case. The station in Konin is already six years behind schedule. If this goes on, according to the rate of delay you have at the moment, it will probably become a fact (the Bell) in 2028. But due to delays, I ask for written information on the scale of delays in minutes and percentage per year on the PKP railway. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u348	Thank you. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Coalition. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u349	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Maybe the question does not refer directly to the draft law, but it is keenly interested in the inhabitants of Poznań and Wielkopolska. This year is the 10th anniversary of the dedication of the new Main Station in Poznań. The investment was created very quickly, in 10 months, although it is assessed differently by the inhabitants of Wielkopolska. But it's also the sloppy 10th anniversary of not solving the problem of revitalization, renovating the old main station. It is the center of the city of Poznań. There is a shift in arguments between the city authorities and the PKP. I think it's time to solve this problem after 10 years. Of course, this station is under the supervision of the monument conservator, but it would be good for him to actually start performing his station functions, and perhaps also commercial functions. But it also shows the landlords. The city of Poznań is, of course, watching over urban planning and development, but in my opinion the ball is on the side of the PKP. Please respond in writing as it is now. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u350	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jan Łopata, Coalition Poland. There isn't? Okay. Mr Mateusz Bochenek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u351	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! When on the agenda of the Sejm there is a topic concerning the Polish National Railways, I do not imagine not to bring up the issue of the pine district of Maczki and the railway station, a particular object, which a few years ago had hoped to regain its former glow. Unfortunately, these hopes have passed quickly, the work has been interrupted and although today, as a local government and as a social side, we are proposing concrete solutions on how to manage the facility, but also on how to implement this investment, unfortunately the PKP does not really engage in dialogue on this issue and does not want to meet with the local, social side in order to reach an agreement. And this is absolutely very important. I therefore appeal to the Minister and ask for this meeting (the bell) and this dialogue. We are ready for this, we have concrete proposals and now is the time to finally implement this issue effectively. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u352	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u353	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Following the announcement of the final results of the Rail+ programme, it turned out that the projects had not been co-financed. The inhabitants of my region are very disappointed by the lack of money for revitalization of railway line 190 on section Skoczów - Bielsko, which the Association of Municipalities and Districts of the Southern Silesian Voivodeship sought. As a result, I have a question about the future of the Railways programme. Is the government planning a second edition of this project? When could this happen? What about projects that didn't get funding? How's that backup list? Can we count on funding? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u354	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u355	Dear Marshal, Dear Minister, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Next year PKP plans to announce tenders worth PLN 11 and 12 billion - investments in the construction of new networks, the fight against communication exclusion, the construction of stations. Here it must be made clear that the PKP also plays a very important role in the fight for clean air, because the more connections, the less cars on the road. I, Minister, wanted to remind myself. It is very important to build stations in small towns. I will replace the station in Moszczenicy in the Piotrków district, there is a digitization hub. We're looking forward to building this station. I would also like to talk about upgrading the network, because it is quite important. For trains to go faster, these networks need to be upgraded all the time. I hope that this will also be an important priority. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u356	Thank you very much. Mr Paweł Rychlik, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u357	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The times of government of post-communists and liberals are times of degradation, sale and destruction of Polish railways, Polish companies, energy, such a very strategic branch of railway and railway energy. Civic Platform Times are the times of missed rail investments. The example of the station in Poznań, quoted by Mr Walda Dzikowski, is the best example. There passengers from cash register to platform four must walk about 500 m with luggage to get on the train. At this point, Minister, I would like to thank you very much for the programmeKolej+¿ and for qualifying for the call from Wielenia to Siemkowice. This will allow this region, the region of Łódź, Wieluni, Działoszyn and Wieruszow to connect with Łódź. [[♪ The bell ♪]] But I want to ask you about the modernisation of the 181 railway line from Kępno to Oleśnica, which will allow you to connect with Wrocław. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u358	Thank you very much. Mr Cezary Grabarczyk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u359	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In this act we strengthen, among others. railway management company, Polish Railway Lines, and this is a good solution. We all support that. Question: "Will the Minister draw up another bill in which we will continue to strengthen PLK so that railroaders can regain control of the railway component project at the CPK?" You know very well because you've already fallen in love with the railroad that the CPK's construction attorney has no control over this segment, this part of the program. As long as the railwaymen from PLK were involved in this program, there were no social tensions, there were no conflicts, there was no proposal to run the line through the newly built settlements. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Please consider this proposal. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u360	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u361	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Rail transport, as one of the Members has pointed out here, is also a reduction in emissions. But rail transport is also a combination of those towns that are along this line, with larger centres. My district, the district of Rawski, is one of the districts which are excluded by rail transport. That means there's no train stop in the county, which doesn't mean... [[Excuse me, Narrow-Torch.]] Narrow-water is, but she's county. On the other hand, when it comes to the railway line, the railway line is. At the time of the design of this line was planned station in the territory of the district of Rawska, it has not yet been realized. [[♪ The bell ♪]] It would be worth thinking about this station at this point. The second thing - it is also worth thinking about the possibility of delivering goods, because railway sidings often disappear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u362	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Marek Polak, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u363	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my full support for the proposal to involve twice as much funding for this programme, the Rail+ Programme, because this is an important opportunity for rural residents, small towns and out-of-communication towns. The railway will offer them easy access to large urban agglomerations, academic centres, industrial zones and other institutions, which will enable them to pursue their skills, talents and interests. In short, it will allow them to realize themselves in all their splendor. I wanted to thank the Minister very much for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u364	Thank you very much. Mr Andrzej Bittel, Minister of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure, will speak. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u365	Mr. Marshal, thank you very much. High Izbo! Dear Members, Thank you so much for this interesting debate. It shows that the good of the Polish railroad lies at the heart of all its participants. Poland rail as a collective transport, the most safe, the most ecological, the best, in short, we are all interested. Ordering this segment is precisely the purpose of this law. On the one hand, we want to organize ownership relationships, relationships that make everyone know what they manage, how they manage and how they carry out their tasks, and on the other hand we invest in new infrastructure, modernize it, improve its quality, revitalize the one that is, so that it also induces the organizers of collective transport to build the best passenger offer for small homelands, for cities with more than 10,000 people, to connect them with the capitals of voivodships. This is the aim of the Railways programme, which I understand everyone in this Chamber shares and believes that this is the way to deal with railway matters, in this direction, that this is the right direction. Thank you very much for this assessment. There's nothing in this bill, not a word about the Railway Fund, so I don't really understand the nuisance that's here in the club position of the Left. I understand you might not like the issue of taxation... [[Game in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u366	Excuse me, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, Peter, I have a favor to ask of you. We often resent the fact that, as we speak on the platform, the Members of the government stand behind us and do not listen to us. [[This is Mr Sulphur.]] Listen to me. [[The voice from the hall: But here we are setting up a coalition.]] There's no coalition without the Left. There you go, Minister. Excuse me. Secretary of State of the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you very much. I've already warmed up, and you're welcome. I understand that we may not like the way we settle the tax, but if we want to end this process when it comes to the relationships of capital companies, public limited companies, which account for shares, not shares, then I ask you to make a distinction. It's the only way to do it. There's no other way. Of course, in order to satisfy the satisfaction of Minister Grabarczyk: yes, this is the application of a provision that has already been, which makes it easier for everyone to explain that this has already been the case. It's a pity he was so under-utilized at the time. It is the Member, the Minister, who remembers perfectly. I hope that these provisions restored to legal order will allow this opportunity to be widely used in order to introduce this order. There were numerous questions, so-called. from the district. Allow me, in general, to try not to refer to them, because... [[Maybe in writing, Minister.]] If necessary, if she has been tabled during this debate, I will, of course, address those questions on which there was such expectation. I understand those questions, too. I am very pleased with them, because they show that the entire hall, regardless of which side these requests are submitted, expects railway investments. I expect them, too. It must be said that this time, which has been since 2016, is the best time for Polish railways. These rail investments are the most important, and that's what everyone sees. Minister Grabarczyk sees this in committee meetings, Mr Suchoń sees these investments, so as if these next programmes are adopted... [[Except for the rolling stock.]] The rolling stock is also there, Minister, he will. [[But not bigger.]] I think it's bigger than that. We could fight about it, yeah. Depends on how we count - whether in art or in expenses. That's when it's for the play. It can also be statistically approachable in a specific way. It is certainly the case that rolling stock investments are. The rolling stock programs, you know, they're growing. First there was 7 billion, then 19 billion, now there is an even higher sum in the rolling stock programme implemented only by PKP Intercity. That has to be emphasized. There were questions about the privatisation assessment. It is a pity that these companies, or at least two, have been privatized, because the privatisation of PKP Energy is the privatisation of self-play. As far as I know, the trial is in court. The court works in a known way. I'm not commenting on that. The Minister did not mention the privatisation of rail telecommunications from inherent modesty. I believe that this should remain within the infrastructure, which is why the division into a company of energy and telecommunications should not be, because these are infrastructure elements... [[And the station in Mielec should be?]] ...which should be in PKP PLK always. They should not be secreted. It was a mistake that's hard to reverse right now, and, well, that's how it is. PKP Cargo operates in a fully liberalised market. There are better periods, there are worse periods. I hope he's going to get better by now. Of course, investments should be made in such a way that they are functionally useful. I share Mr Krajewski's view. One can say that the example of an investment which is poorly used is the railway line in the Warmia-Mazury voivodeship, where four train pairs are driving on an investment realized for 300 million, but the Dalibog Marshal of Warmia-Mazurskie more of these trains are not going to let go there. You must remember that the state, the government, is responsible for organising inter-voivodship and international transport, and here I would comment on the delays of trains to Berlin. Indeed, such facts have taken place. Once there was a derailment on the part of the German freight train, which affected punctuality, and the second was the defect of the German locomotive, which affected those days, which was mentioned by the Member, this punctuality. Of course, we also have a lot to do in our Polish garden and this is the constant concern of all those who want a good, functional, ecological, safe, Polish railway. As far as the implementation of the investment is concerned, I would not specifically refer to Chinese examples, because there is no such, you can say, parameter, which is the environment, where it is not necessarily the property of the areas through which they are carried out, so this investment process is much less complicated, simple. I used to talk to representatives of Chinese companies and they, for example. they did not volunteer to invest in Silesia, because they could not understand that if there are mining damages, it is not possible to bypass this fragment, only it needs to be strengthened. It's a different thing, a different way of thinking about actions. Of course, all the programmes implemented by the government - the national railway programme, the railway programme, the stop programme, the Central Communication Port programme - are coordinated and communicated. We need to distinguish between agglomeration traffic and long-distance, fast traffic. This isn't happening in such an obvious way. Therefore, in many large cities we want to implement and carry out feasibility studies related to a new approach to solving agglomeration problems in order to know where it is necessary to separate traffic from agglomeration traffic, which is characterised by a high rate of retention. You can't have high speeds and frequent stops at the same time. It's pretty obvious to everyone who's trying to do it even a little bit. Of course, I am in favour of the provision of rail services with the highest possible frequency, as long as rolling stock is in possession, as rolling stock is purchased, without undue delay, if there is an infrastructure that can be used for this. And that's how we try to do things. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[What about Mielec station? In writing, please.]] Thank you very much. Is there another committee rapporteur? [[Speech Off the Microphone]] But not too long, can I?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u367	Mr. Marshal! I allow myself to speak as rapporteur only because a very significant part of the questions, in colloquial terms, was asked in a manner quite far from the content of this government presentation. Some have been asked, it's my personal opinion, in this kind of folk form, but I won't comment on it. I'd like to focus on reminding you of these two goals again so that we don't run away from the point. The first objective is to implement the Rail+Programme by significantly increasing the financial resources for investment. As rapporteur, I would like to remind you that the effect of this amendment is to increase the investment list from 17 to 34 projects and increase the funds from PLN 5.6 billion to over 12 billion. Secondly, it is an improvement of the process of bringing state assets by the Polish Railways to carry out activities in the field of infrastructure management by Polish Railway Lines. As a number of questions have been asked about the implementation of investments, points or lines, I allow myself for informational purposes, especially for those who patiently listen to us, to say that of the total 34 projects that have been approved... Mrs Lenartowicz asked questions about the area of the Silesian Voivodeship. There are seven projects from the Śląskie voivodship, including e.g. from Mikokov, whom you have referred to. This is an increase in the capacity of the railway line in the Katowice Ligota - Orzeszę Jaśkowice section through the construction of a new track. There are investments in cooperation with local authorities such as Bytom, Rud Śląska, Katowice, Pyskowice and Mikołów. There are projects related to financial participation of voivodships - different voivodships, where Law and Justice governs, whether in coalition or alone, and where the Marshal comes from another political arrangement. It is a Świętokrzyskie voivodship, Łódź voivodship, Świętokrzyskie voivodship, Wielkopolskie voivodship, lubuskie voivodship, lubelskie voivodship. You could create a ranking list. This has been assessed in a multi-criterial way by the infrastructure resort. There are also projects such as the reconstruction of various railway lines which have been demolished in recent years to restore rail traffic. We have such a project of integration from the Silesian voivodeship, concerning Jastrzębie-Zdrój, a town almost 100 thousand people, which does not reach the railway line, etc. To conclude, I would first of all draw attention to the ladies and gentlemen who have asked questions, especially concerning their districts, regarding railway stations projects... I remember, there was Konin... [[It's a mincemeat.]] ...there was Mielec and so on. After all, this is not the implementation of a closed list of investments. Minister Bittel spoke of this in a very cost-effective way - it could be further developed - that the size of investments made by Polish Railway Lines is record-breaking, as is the record allocation of funds under the Railway+ Ż programme, in addition to this local or regional list of needs, also reported by local authorities in cooperation with the Ministry of Infrastructure and Polish Railway Lines. We simply respond to the voice of the Marshals of voivodships, to the voice of some local governments, and to the smaller ones, and to the larger ones, in a very concrete way. This is, I think, the joint success of our entire House, that at the request of the government, this allocation has managed to increase so significantly. I would not like to change my role as rapporteur and comment on some other questions, loosely related to the subject of this amendment. You could take part in a competition to ask very strange questions that had nothing to do with the content of this presentation. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u368	Thank you, sir. Thank you also on behalf of the Minister for supplementing his reply. I'm sure he's very happy about that. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. Please state that the relevant committees have submitted a report on the Government's draft law on the termination of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, drawn up in Moscow on 22 October 1963, print No 2287. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided to supplement the agenda with a point covering the examination of this report. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in this case the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in the discussion on this item, heard five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the proposals. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 5 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the government draft law amending the Act on the national system of producer registers, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications and certain other laws (prints No 2247 and 2284). I would very much like to ask Mr Kazimierz Goloyuch to submit a report to the committee. You are welcome, sir, very kind. There you go.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u369	Thank you, Marshal. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development carried out on 24 May 2022 the first reading of the Government's draft law amending the Act on the national system of producer records, the farm records and the records of payment applications and certain other laws, print No 2247. The aim of the project is to enable electronic application to be made for registration of producers, to make electronic copies of documents, to reduce the amount of storage space for paper files and to allow quick access to files from each level of the Organisational Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. It also clarifies the provisions on proceedings with electronically copied documents and an electronic copy of documents. The Act includes, among others: allows the introduction of an electronic payment application and an aid application, so-called. the transfer proposal, within the framework of the forestry activities covered by the RDPs 2004-2006 and the RDPs 2007-2013. During the first reading, no request for a public hearing was made, whereas during the procedure, the above-mentioned hearing was not requested. two proposals for amendments were also tabled. The first amendment, which was adopted in the vote, introduces a new Article. 1a. This is to leave the surplus funds of the Agricultural Property Resources of the State Treasury and leave them to carry out the tasks of the National Agricultural Support Centre such as loans for the purchase of inputs, including fertilisers, acquisition of shares in commercial companies and acquisition of agricultural land. On the other hand, the second amendment, which was also adopted in the vote, extends the scope of the objectives for which the units of the local government of real estate which are part of the Agricultural Property Resources of the Treasury can be transferred. The Commission voted on the proposal for the adoption by the Sejm of a draft law together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u370	Thank you very much. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to ask Mrs Teresa Pamula from the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to speak. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u371	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The draft law amending the Act on the national system of producer registers, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications and certain other laws provides for amendments to the Act on the national system of producer records, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications, the Act on support for rural development from the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund Guarantee Section, the Act on support for rural development with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2007-2013, the Act on payments under the direct support schemes and the Act on support for rural development with the contribution of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the RDP for 2014-2020. In view of the increasing use of digitalisation and information technology in agriculture, it is proposed that all operators authorised to register producers may apply for registration not only in paper form but also in electronic form. There is currently no possibility of electronic application for inclusion in producer records or for amendment or correction. Applications for registration of producers are currently made in paper form to the head of the district office of the local competent agency. There is also no clarification of the provisions on proceedings with electronically copied documents and an electronic copy of documents. Nor is it possible to determine the conditions for granting aid under the Rural Development Support Act with the participation of the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development under the Rural Development Programme 2014-2020 as the conditions for participating in the public procurement procedure introduced in connection with the implementation of the actions: transfer of knowledge and information activities and advisory services, farm management services and substitution services. There is also no possibility of electronic submission of applications for payments in the context of the deforestation of agricultural land and aid applications, i.e. so-called. transfer applications submitted in the event of the death or transfer of forested land covered by commitments undertaken in both the RDPs 2004-2006 and the RDPs 2007-2013. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 1 of the proposed law proposed to supplement the article. 11 to amend the law on the national producer registration system by adding a regulation ensuring that an application for inclusion in the producer records can be submitted by means of an electronic form. This will therefore be an additional option which will allow for the lodging of the abovementioned. the application and the links to the application without contacting the county office of the restructuring agency e.g. through a post office. In the added mouth. Article 1a 11 The Act introduces a simplification which concerns the submission of applications for inclusion in producer records by means of a form made available on the Agency's website by non-natural producers for which there is a single or multiple representation. In such a case, the person or persons authorised to represent a producer who is not a natural person shall be required to authorise one person who may, on behalf of those producers, submit an application for entry in the producer's records. In the following paragraph 1c in Article: 11 The law on the national producer registration system introduces a regulation which, where annexes are required which are not electronically attached to the application, allows them to be submitted to the county office of the agency or sent by the postal operator. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 1 point 2 of the same law is the regulation which allows for electronic copies of documents collected in the context of proceedings relating to the registration of producers and the deletion from that register. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 4 and Article 4 5 point 1 of the proposed law, in view of the need to ensure consistent regulation of the agency's handling of restructuring and modernisation with documents, I propose that similar arrangements concerning the authentication of electronic copies of documents and the exclusion of provisions on national archival resources and archives in relation to the handling of electronically copied documents (Dzinek) be included in the relevant provisions of the Act on Direct Payments and the Act on...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u372	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u373	In view of the above, I would like to say that these solutions will apply in the case of measures where the allocation of funds is carried out under the provisions of the administrative procedure ending with an administrative decision.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u374	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u375	These are payments under direct payments or other actions, such as: organic farming.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u376	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u377	The Law and Justice Club calls for the adoption of the above-mentioned Law and Justice Club. Laws. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u378	Great. Thank you very much. I invite Mr Kazimierz Plocke, the Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u379	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Today we are to deal with the technical law on amending the law on the national system of producer registers, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications and some other laws, print no. 2247. Sounds innocent. Yesterday, however, Law and Justice reported a scandalous amendment at the last minute. What's the rush? On the occasion of the aforementioned Law Law and Justice proposes to amend the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury, and in it a positive article. 23c, which, according to the proposed amendment, is quoted as follows: in 2022, the amount of PLN 500 million from surplus funds, the resource fixed at 31 December 2021, which remains after the National Agricultural Support Centre has settled its obligations, shall not be paid into the State budget. End of quote. [[Like Orbán.]] I'm gonna say it in a normal language. This amendment will allow the rulers to lay their hands on the amount of PLN 500 million, which is due to farmers. This is a scandal worth PLN 0.5 billion. Money from farmers, money for the sale and lease of the state land instead of supporting farmers and agriculture will be at the disposal of politicians. There will be no social control. The amendment tabled yesterday states that the National Agricultural Support Centre, instead of putting money into the budget, will allocate it, among other things. for the purchase of shares and shares in commercial companies and loans for the purchase of agricultural inputs. From this point I ask publicly: Is this about money for the National Food Group? How much of this 0.5 billion - 200, 300 or 500 million PLN - will your holding company consume? Strange coincidence, the Council of Ministers on 22 April this year. adopted a resolution on the establishment of the Kranowa Grupa Spożywcza. At the same time, a draft resolution of the Council of Ministers appeared with exactly the same content as the amendment I discussed. So 500 million PLN won't go to the budget. The money will remain at the National Agricultural Support Centre, and ministers Kowalczyk and Sasin will decide what will happen to it. I repeat, this is farmers' money. They belong to farmers. We do not agree to pumping money from the National Agricultural Support Centre into the National Food Group, which is a purely political project. Its existence has no economic justification, and work on its vocation is carried out on a confidential basis. Isn't it enough for you that you included the richest strategic companies in the agricultural sector, which together have about 30,000. ha state land worth at least about PLN 2 billion? Isn't that enough for you? Now you want 500 million for more unspoken projects. I repeat here: In this High House we do not agree to steal from Polish agriculture. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]] For the last 7 years, Law and Justice have promised to create a holding company to ensure high productivity for farmers and low food prices for consumers. What do we got? As far as most agricultural production is concerned, profitability has been the lowest in many years, and the cost of food has been highest in recent years. You're lying about supporting farmers, giving them loans from the National Agricultural Support Centre. And you know why I say that? Because I have evidence. National Agricultural Support Centre, reminding you that this is your child, only by name supports farmers. Between 2018 and 2020 out of PLN 2 billion of KOWR's expenditure only PLN 115 million accounted for expenditure on direct support for farmers and agriculture. In the same years, KOWR granted 15 loans to farmers for a total amount of 3882 000. zł. During that time, he extended 14 farms and did not provide any, repeat, guarantee of repayment of the restructuring loan, to which he was entitled. There was no guarantee in three years. Do you hear that? On the other hand, we all remember who and for how much KOWR, the National Agricultural Support Centre, provided a guarantee - PLN 100 million for the company buying apples in 2018. The loan company did not pay off, PLN 100 million of the Treasury (Dawn) lost. KOWR has also provided a guarantee of PLN 30 million for the Dairy Cooperative Bielmlek ¿, also the loan has not been repaid and the Treasury has lost specific money.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u380	Thank you. It's over.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u381	Mr. Marshal, if you don't mind a second, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u382	You can't, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u383	Just so we're clear, these are the data from the parliamentary interpellation. If you are interested, I am happy to assist you in getting acquainted with this material. Therefore, we do not agree to the amendments tabled, just as we do not agree to rob Polish farmers in the majesty of the law. Mr. Marshal, thank you. At the same time, I am making an amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u384	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Thank you for the amendment, thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Paweł Krutul, parliamentary club of the Left. I invite you very much, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u385	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The amendment of the Act on the national system of records of producers, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications and certain other laws, printing No. 2247, is necessary and valid for thousands of farmers. The new rules allow farmers to submit applications and documents to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture by electronic means. Until now, applications have only been accepted in paper format. Making an entry in the records of agricultural producers, amending and correcting the data after the amendment will no longer require contact with the district office of AriMR or post office. At the same time, farmers will still be able to file any documents themselves at the office. It will remain a matter of choice. In addition, the amendment of the Act will enable the submission of an electronic request for payment and an application for aid, so-called. the transfer proposal, within the framework of the forestry activities covered by the Rural Development Programme 2004-2006 and 2007-2013. Furthermore, a simplification will be introduced which concerns the submission of applications for inclusion in producer records by means of a form made available on the ARiMR website by non-natural producers for which there is a single or multi-member representation. In such a case, the person or persons authorised to represent a producer who is not a natural person shall be required to authorise one person who may, on behalf of that producer, submit an application for entry in the producer's records. It will also be possible to make electronic copies of documents, which will reduce the amount of storage space for paper files and allow quick access to files from each ARiMR organisational level. Currently, the case files are only kept in paper format. Unfortunately, these two amendments, as my previous speaker said, have destroyed the entire project. We're not authorized to do that. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u386	Thank you very much. Mr Mirosław Maliszewski, Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u387	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Coalition Poland club on the bill, which is intended to simplify the procedure, is intended to enable farmers to submit not only an electronic application for registration of agricultural producers, but also a number of other actions. In this respect, this law is indeed good, and in this respect it is good. She deserves to be supported. Of course, we are also concerned about what was presented in the position of the Civic Coalition. On the other hand, I would like to refer to this original project, what was included in it. I remember the discussion that took place in this House when we discussed whether farmers were already prepared to apply for area payments in electronic form, we were giving a transitional period. Today, after a few years, after this discussion, after this decision, it seems that farmers have learned to operate computers against fear and against the accusation of some people. Farmers have no problem submitting electronic applications. However, it seems that it is the agency that is rather struggling to make those applications which are submitted by farmers, to rob and to take decisions granting them payments. I am talking here, for example, about the Rural Development Programme, which is the second pillar. Because if we look at some of the activities and the agency's delay in deciding whether to sign the agreement, it is so large in many actions that the percentage of funds used is small. We can not only brag about the level of comparison to other countries of the European Union, but in many aspects in the implementation of the RDPs we are at the gray end, which means that the funds needed by Polish farmers, Polish agriculture, are not only not used, but that these farmers are losing to their competitors in other countries who have long benefited from these funds, invested in their farms, are more competitive and thus behave better on the market. When we adopted the principles of the Rural Development Programme, we also talked about the need to modify this programme according to the conditions, depending on how the environment will change. And today, the environment has changed dramatically. I am talking not only about the Russian-Ukrainian conflict, its effects, for example, in the food trade and the change in the appearance of the food market, the food market, but I am also talking about the common cost which is attributed - I am talking about the ruling side - only conflict and Putin, and in fact it started much earlier. Referring to these changes in the Rural Development Programme, the necessary changes, I would like to stress that another thing that makes farmers of these agreements not sign is that, alongside the tardiness of the agency, the conditions contained in the proposal today are outdated. It used to be for 150,000. PLN as part of the action concerning the young farmer, this young farmer could buy a tractor and accessories for this tractor, and now the 150,000. zł does not allow him to buy a tractor. Therefore, for this reason farmers today do not want to sign such proposals, such agreements do not want to sign them. The same is true of the action: cooperation, where the use of funds is poor, seems to be less than 5% of the amount originally declared, just because economic realities do not allow the farmer or partners to act: the cooperation of such an agreement to sign, because it, in turn, condemns the whole project to failure. I recommend that we also look at the assumptions of the strategic plan, namely the new actions that have been proposed for the next financial perspective. Our documents are submitted to the European Commission, there is an exchange of views in this area at the moment, an exchange of comments in order to implement the action in terms of quotas in relation to what is currently happening on the market. It may turn out that not only will we not use this RDP, which is today, but we will also have problems using the strategic plan for the coming years, because the assumptions contained in it do not reflect the situation that is now. I would also like to make it clear that our club and we, as the Polish People's Party, have always talked about the need to establish national rules so that measures for farmers are viable for use so that farmers can increase their value on the market by using these measures, so that their farms become competitive and not just to blindly adopt these measures. Today we have this situation, that these actions are not only blind. They, first, do not take into account market realities, second, do not take into account the economic situation of farms. The decline in the profitability of agricultural production, which has been drastic in recent years, i.e. the loss of financial opportunities in terms of own contribution, but also the tardiness of the agencies, attributed mainly and probably to the low qualifications of those who are considering these proposals. I would therefore like to say that, in relation to this fundamental project which has been addressed to the Sejm, our position is positive (The Bell), and we will continue to discuss this last minute amendment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u388	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, near the Confederation. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u389	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's a good thing we're trying to make it easier for farmers. The possibility of electronic dispatch of applications for registration is certainly a clear facilitation. However, I would like the Minister to clarify a few things. I understand that the digitization of this process will be carried out by the daughter company of the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture, which you have recently established, and it will cost several dozen million zlotys a year, because it is important to remember that this is a job that specific people will do in the production of software by this company's daughter AriMR. I assume you've thought this through. However, this should probably be included in expenditure, even in the impact assessment. And there's not even a word about it, there's only a few general provisions that say that the state will describe it in the financial plan of the ARiMR. I'd ask the Minister for an estimate, but I'm not talking about the figures for the dollar anymore, but I'm asking for an estimate of what it's going to cost to the ARiMR. The fact that your party is conducting creative accounting, we all know in this Chamber, but I think this is a good time to stand in the truth to be transparent. I also have, as some of my previous speakers, doubts about moving almost PLN 0.5 billion from KOWR to the National Food Holding. But that's one aspect. Now that I'm on this platform, I'd also like to draw attention to one thing. Well, I have talked about the European Green Deal many times, and I will continue to do so until the end. I encourage you to stop this anti-agricultural project of the European Union, because it will ultimately destroy Polish agriculture, reduce supply, increase prices and ultimately harm the Polish consumer. The European Union also plans to suspend customs duties on Ukrainian exports to the Community for the whole year. This will be another blow to our agri-food sector, because we will find it difficult to compete with food from Ukraine, where the land is objectively more fertile in many places, and labour costs are much lower. We are naturally in favour of supporting Ukrainian efforts, but not at our expense. As Polish politicians, I think you should consider whose business needs to be pursued here. Mr Wojciechowski is in the European Commission, he is currently engaged in agriculture. I think this is a good time to intervene with him (the bell) on this issue, or the Polish village will suffer from this unwise policy of Brussels. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u390	Thank you very much. Mrs Joanna Mucha, near Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u391	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the pleasure to present the position of the Polish Parliamentary Circle 2050 Szymon Hołowni vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the law on the national system of producer registers, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of payment applications and some other laws, print no 2247. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of this bill, we can really tell you what the modus operandi of the functioning of the PiS looks like. It is so that we have some real, real problem or some real, real situation where something can be improved in life, in this particular case and in this situation of farmers, because, after all, the possibility of making proposals, various kinds of applications in electronic mode is a great facilitation, this is a chance for better control, this is a chance to just better manage this area. This law introduces the possibility of electronic application for registration of producers, the possibility of making electronic copies of documents and the rules on proceedings with electronically copied documents and an electronic copy of documents, etc. I could read all these things that are being discussed here. We read this project as representatives of the opposition and think: oh, man, for the first time there is a law that just improves something, just does something good for people and we're all happy about it. And then, of course, this moment comes up, a moment of question, such as the cabaret we know, and I'm not going to quote exactly, "What else is there to screw up here, gentlemen, what else is there to screw up? And there's a rule or two, some kind of amendment tabled by the authors of the project, which makes it very important to consider whether such a project can be adopted. We have the impression that these amendments are a test. It's just to encourage half a billion zlotys, which, as my previous speakers said, should go directly to farmers, and it will go nowhere, because it will be beyond social control, beyond budgetary control, beyond parliamentary control. It is not known who it will go to, perhaps to our favorites, who spent PLN 70 million lightly on various interesting projects. Now it's the only half a billion that doesn't know where it's going again. So we have an innocent technical bill that you really want to support, which, somewhere in the end, somewhere at the last moment of the procedure, is turned upside down. Into a big barrel of honey, because it really was a good bill at the beginning, you add this spoon to a kid who totally ruins this bill. I don't know why you're doing this. Is there really a need for you to add something that will turn upside down to any good work? I don't get it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u392	Thank you very much. Sixteen Members and a Member have asked the question. I'm closing the list. I'm setting time for questioning - 1 minute. Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u393	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I have a question about this application process. During this process, will it be necessary to use commercial solutions to sign the proposal, or will it be within the single infrastructure that the State will provide? Will this authentication process be possible by means of those tools that are appropriate, for example, for authentication, when accessing various state systems, such as the ZUS system, the tax office, i.e. the single authentication infrastructure? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u394	Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u395	Dear Marshal, In the absence of time, I will say that I sign with both hands the performance of my club friend Kazimierz Plocke. But we have to make some kind of investigation because the state rejected these amendments and we would have to disarm this grenade somehow. I believe that it is ineffective that you are trying to avoid parliamentary control in this way. First of all, we do not know whether this is an emergency solution, or whether in the future you will still try to make such a formula that every surplus from KOWR will be targeted only by you. It's just like Orbán, who introduced a state of emergency and can do whatever he wants. In this case, I take this provision literally, as did Orbán's statement concerning the introduction of an emergency condition, because in the case of electronic handling or certified signature we agree. But that's the kind of investigation we have to do. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We just don't believe you. Why are you doing this? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u396	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u397	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, There has not been such a meeting of the Sejm in this term of office, and this is probably also the case in the previous one, in which we would not have had to deal with the patronage. I think that this phenomenon called PiS-legislative will go into the history of this self-government and there will be many doctoral work, many interesting articles on this subject. [[Applause]] Ladies and gentlemen! It is already your specialization to do something suddenly, out of the blue, surprise the public, hide something from the public, encourage, allocate 500 million outside Parliament's control for one purpose or another. You can't stop yourself from doing anything that's against the law. You can put in another state of emergency, spend billions more on public television. There is no law and no amendment that you would not be able to do. And it is not at all that the Members who tabled these amendments need to know at all what these amendments are about, it does not matter. Someone on the street. Nowogrodzka, this pato legislatiwa, designs every day. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u398	Thank you very much. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u399	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, The first part of the Act - important, improving the functioning of the Agency, the relationship of producers with the Agency, the possibility of submitting applications electronically. And the other is a terrible piece of information about trying to circumvent the state budget. I would therefore like to ask the Minister what purpose this year will serve this 500 million PLN planned for this solution. And wasn't the minister responsible for agriculture able to predict such a large amount that is needed for KOWR's operation, but, so to speak, it has to be done backwards? Second question. On 24 February, we amended the Act on the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture. On March 21, this amendment was published in the Official Journal of the Laws. It provides for the possibility of setting up an agency company. Has this company been set up with the consent of the Minister responsible? What kind of capital has she been entrusted with, or is it functioning (the bell)? What tasks have been entrusted to this company? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u400	Thank you very much. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u401	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! In the title itself, the draft law amending the law on the national system of records of producers, the records of agricultural holdings and the records of applications for payment and certain other laws is kind of pleasant and useful. But I have a few questions that just come up. How much will the so-called total cost be? Technical change? Who did you consult with because I couldn't find it? And why the recent amendments? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u402	Thank you. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u403	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, the law is technically needed in order to simplify and facilitate the submission of applications to producers, farmers. It's obvious. We have no objections to this and no comments. Our key question, on the other hand, is precisely this amendment that the rapporteur was unable to justify. What do you want - at the expense of these huge farmers' fees, the tenants' fees, which is almost 500 million - to what do you want to spend 500 million on? Tell us, because it's kind of unfair. We meet about the bill, we read, we analyse, we consult, and here you suddenly want to collect 500 million due funds to be invested precisely in Polish agriculture for some more specific purposes. We demand an explanation. That's not how you deal with the bill. This is the first thing. Second thing. I wanted to make a point about Ukraine. Today, many Polish farmers, entities receive offers resulting from the fact that huge amounts of grain, wheat (Dawn) are located in Poland, passing through Poland. In view of the abandoned export system of agricultural products...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u404	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u405	...do you have an answer, an idea in the context of Poland and guarantees of Polish interests? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u406	Thank you very much, sir. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u407	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project's ability to allow farmers to submit applications and documents to the Agency for Restructuring and Modernization of Agriculture by electronic means should be assessed positively, as this is indeed an facilitation. However, it must be borne in mind that in our country there is still digital exclusion, which also affects farmers, especially the older ones. What about those who do not have the possibility to submit an application electronically? Did the government think of them properly when drafting this bill? I wanted to ask you why the use of funds by farmers is so low - about 5% and how the government intends to take real action on support for farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u408	Thank you very much. Mr Waldy Dzikowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u409	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Does the government provide for the possibility of aid for breeding horses and poultry? And if so, what size could that be? If so, what system, or who prefers, will the algorithm apply to the calculation of these subsidies? And in order for this system or algorithm to be effective, then, Minister, do you have data on the size of the animals I mentioned? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u410	Thank you. Mrs Margaret Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u411	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! During the meeting of the Committee on Agriculture, this draft law was added as a classic amendment to the Law on the Management of Agricultural Real Estate of the State Treasury. First of all, you take out half a billion zlotys that should go to the state budget, and instead, beyond the control of the Sejm and the Senate, they will go to build a food holding company. This is an unacceptable, non-constitutional and negative action of elementary transparency. Secondly, you are changing the provision that allowed local governments to transfer the agricultural property of the State Treasury to build the necessary infrastructure. Of course, this recipe is incomplete. It's not there, for example. green areas, which make it difficult to create new green areas on the outskirts of cities, e.g. Green Clinic of the South of Wroclaw. But your proposal will not change that, and what is more, it will introduce even greater discretion in this (the bell) whether or not the local government will give the land to care for the investment. What are the guarantees that the land will not be transferred Just where the PiS rules? Because there's nothing to suggest otherwise.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u412	Thank you very much. Thank you very much. Mrs Dorota Niedziela, Civic Coalition. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u413	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! It's not a drop-off, Madame, it's just a classic money-jump. A half-billion-dollar jump. Ladies and gentlemen, it is best that the intention of this amendment is made by the procedure. On May 23, I received an answer to the interpellation in which I asked what would happen to the surplus of 500 million. I received a reply from the Minister, signed by the Minister, that he would remain in the NKR and that the resolution of the Council of Ministers would be passed on to these purposes. A resolution of the Council of Ministers. What happened at night from May 23 to 24? What night shift - 500 million PLN - caused that suddenly this is not a resolution of the Council of Ministers, but a bill drop? Or is it the fear of the consequences of actually jumping to PLN 0.5 billion? Is the Council of Ministers afraid to sign this resolution because it does not know what will happen to this money and how Mr Sasin will distribute it? Or maybe the Minister of Agriculture (the bell) is afraid that we'll account for where the money is? [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u414	Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, parliamentary club of the Left. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u415	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The fight against digital exclusion and the digitalisation of administrations should take place beyond political divisions, they should link rather than divide, because we still have a lot to do to make the administration friendly to the citizen while at the same time able to communicate with the administration. The shortcomings in the digital administration are most visible in local government in Poland at the level of the commune and at the level of the county. The 500 million zlotys you want to turn, which you want to take, should be funds that would serve the digitalization of Poland in such a way that we would not be late in small towns. A lot of money is needed in Tuchola, and in the Harvest, and in Barcina, and in Nakle. The Kujawsko-Pomorskie region would gladly accept tens of millions of zlotys to support, for example, the fight against digital exclusion or cybersecurity training. You don't think about things like that. Even though the bill is needed, you've decided to break it. Is it reasonable in a country that, after the pandemic experience, should realise that the more (the bell) digital administration, the better and easier access to the citizen? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u416	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u417	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! When the PiS has bad intentions, it also has its way of doing things, namely introducing amendments in the last phase of the legislative process, so that as few Members as possible know about it, including Members of the PiS, and that society does not see it, and then the law will be passed. 500 million PLN takes away from farmers who need this money very much, and it takes it for unknown purposes. Nobody knows where the Poles' money is anymore, because most of them are out of control of the Sejm. In fact, there are already two budgets in Poland: the budget, which is becoming more and more residual and I really do not know why we are analysing the implementation of this budget, and the second in which the money really belongs (the bell) to the government, and really to the governing party. Instead of asking, I have an appeal: give back 500 million PLN to the farmers. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u418	Thank you very much. Mrs Teresa Pamula, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u419	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We gave farmers 500+ and this is the money that farmers and farmers' children in the countryside thank for. And the state here is just practicing politics because that's all you have left to say. That's what my kids told me. What can the opposition do? He can talk. You can talk. [[The voice from the hall: You're an explorer.]] Thank you very much for this bill, because it is a very good law that will help farmers to submit applications. I just wanted to ask the Minister when the relevant rules will enter into force. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u420	Thank you very much. Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Parliamentary Club Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u421	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Applications so far so called area areas are much more difficult and relate not only to registration but also to certain administrative activities, evaluations, etc. Those applications shall be submitted electronically and applications for inclusion in the producer records shall so far be made in paper form. Minister! I would like to point out that producers' records actually consist of three registers. If a farmer lodges an application as manager of that holding, he becomes a producer. In the case of companies, of course, the farm records and producer records are the same, in the case of farmers, these are two different records in which the holding (the bell) changes its number. Are there any measures in this regard to harmonise these provisions with regard to companies and individual farmers? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u422	Thank you very much. Mr Konrad Berkowicz, near the Confederation. Please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u423	Every time the government supports someone, which means they give them some money, it means that they had to take them in taxes before, but there is still the cost of taking them and supporting them. Once again, I hear that something needs to be regulated and supported, so I have a question: Do you ever think about freeing from regulation and stopping disturbing? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u424	Thank you. Mr Kazimierz Plocke, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u425	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask how much money from these 500 million PLN The National Agricultural Support Centre intends to allocate to buy shares or shares in commercial companies in 2022 and how many such transactions were made in 2021. Does the Ministry carry out this comparative analysis? I'd like to get to know this data, if that's possible. The second point concerns the costs of implementing the provisions of this law in the field of information technology. What company will it carry out or which entity will carry out these tasks in the field of computerization? Will this be the daughter company we have already mentioned in this House or any other external entity? Please answer me. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u426	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński, parliamentary club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u427	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, we have another project dealing in large part with the way documents are submitted electronically. And I have basically a question for the Prime Minister. If I could count on a written reply, I'd be obliged. Why isn't there a single law that describes the standards for submitting electronic documents, the standards for signing and any requirements that should be met by electronic documentation? This is a very simple and easy to prepare project. On the basis of this project, each of the ministers could allow any of the manual documents that have been created so far to operate in electronic commerce. In the current procedure, which we have adopted, the Sejm will spend the next 10 years discussing subsequent applications, successive registers, applications or writings. This in no way improves the standards of our law and does not speed up legislation, while it consumes money, time and effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u428	Thank you very much. I invite the Undersecretary of State to the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development of Minister Krzysztof Cięóra. Minister, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u429	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Thank you very much for these questions, and in fact for these few questions, because most of them were statements. Maybe I will go straight to one of the last questions, Mr Plocke's questions about the situation of the NKER in 2021. I can immediately inform you that we received 2476 notifications, of which 2426 notifications concerned the sale of shares for a total amount of PLN 652 million. 50 notifications concerned the acquisition of shares or shares for the amount of PLN 348 million, of which the KOWR had the right to acquire shares in accordance with Article. The 4th bill we're talking about... KOWR only made six statements on the exercise of the right to buy 488 shares of one company and did not make a statement on the exercise of the right to acquire shares and shares. So much for the Members' questions. As far as questions are concerned, state objections to this law, I would like to say that the law itself will not generate additional costs that will burden the state budget. We're predicting about 800,000. PLN of the current resources of the ARiMR will be transferred to the liquidation or disposal of current paper applications and the digitisation of these proposals, while in the nearest perspective, this year, as regards these proposals we are talking about, we are expecting 2,300 000. zł savings resulting from the fact that we will not keep these documents in paper form. And this will be carried out under a contract that we already have signed, which ARiMR has signed with an external contractor. It is true, however, that it is indeed in the plans to set up a company which is now being formed and whose financing is currently planned. I don't have specific data on the maintenance costs of this company. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me, however, that if we want ARiMR and government agencies in general to be serious, it is probably appropriate that a company with our influence should manage documents, data, any information concerning Polish farmers. I can't imagine a private company doing this or, as it used to be in the past, even in the election, so that millions of Poles' data can be found on some Russian servers. We absolutely do not want this to happen. It will be our company, under our control, a company that will handle the data of Polish farmers. As for the reservations about the amount that we are talking about, I think there is a great lack of understanding of intent, a lack of understanding of the situation in which we are in, also after 24 February. Starting with the question of the amount, what it shows, I would like to say that we planned that at the end of 2021 the surplus and what will be transferred to the NKER State budget will amount to about PLN 30 million. And we transfer this 30 million PLN to the state budget, and we also transfer additional income increased by 64 million PLN, i.e. a total of 94 million PLN, almost 100 million PLN will be transferred to the state budget. On the other hand, these additional 500 million zlotys, which represent a surplus, are really transferred to objectives which today are crucial from the point of view of Polish farmers. Here, from this speaker you have called for us to transfer this money to farmers, and that is what we are doing: we are handing over this 500 million PLN to Polish farmers. This money will be transferred primarily to the purchase of soft fruits, and then to wheat, potatoes and other products that Polish farmers are currently producing, because we know very well that in a situation after 24 February, when the war broke out... You're asking us here if we couldn't see this coming. We have many very good, very educated analysts, but unfortunately no one predicted last year that on 24 February there will be a war that will disturb the situation in agricultural markets in particular, not only Polish but also world markets. And today, the national food company will respond to situations that are already being observed today, and those that will occur in the near future will have a significant budget, substantial financial opportunities to effectively interact and support farmers in this regard. This money will be transferred as loans to companies that buy various types of food, agricultural products, in order to break price agreements, break low prices, break the lack of profitability of agricultural production in Poland. We do this, ladies and gentlemen, we transfer this 500 million PLN to Polish farmers. This is your request, this is your appeal, and we're doing it. As we did in the context of insurance for farmers, this year we transfer PLN 1.5 billion to insurance for farmers, so that farmers will be insured against various types of natural disasters. As the only ones in Europe, we transfer PLN 4 billion to fertilisers, to compensate for the losses suffered by farmers who were the first to be burdened with the consequences of rising gas prices, which were a prelude, the beginning of this armed conflict in the East. We are the ones who are being transferred and will spend an additional PLN 400 million per year over the next eight years for a complementary direct payment, which you also closed down a few years ago. This. thanks to us, thanks to this additional direct payment, the average amount of aid up to 1 ha for the Polish farmer will finally be equal to the EU average. Ladies and gentlemen! This money goes directly to farmers and it is huge support, unprecedented support, and I am only talking about programs from the last 6 months, about money which, as the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, as a Polish government, we have allocated directly to the Polish village. This is our huge success, this is our solution to farmers during a crisis that continues, but we have had major problems in recent months. Sorry, I haven't added it yet: an additional 650 million PLN for pig producers. They're concrete. I think you don't see them for purely political reasons. I don't think you're talking to Polish farmers, and you don't know exactly what's going on in the country, just here sometimes. Something will come to your mind and you're trying to accuse us of evil will. There's no evil will, there's no evil intentions here. There's only concrete, there's money we're handing over to farmers. I'm gonna go back to the questions. Mr Suchoń asked for any additional payments, whether the farmer would be obliged to use some paid services to enter the alert if he wanted to make this entry electronically. No, it won't be necessary. He will be able to do so through a trusted profile or apply to the local ARiMR for login to take advantage of this possibility. From June this year it will be possible to submit applications electronically. We want to use these last weeks to enable applications to be submitted electronically already in June, for example, applications for aid for cross-border forestation, because from 1 June such applications will be made in the ARiMR and we would like to see this done electronically in June as well. Applications for forest aid may be submitted from 1 June to 1 August. I think that even the first farmers will also be able to do so electronically. To sum up, ladies and gentlemen, I repeat: we have pure intentions, there are no subtexts here that you think about - and I do not know what this results from. These are concrete benefits for farmers. We will continue on the path we have chosen to enable the farmer to handle applications in the electronic system as much as possible. We want to increase opportunities, allow for further applications. Mr Wojciechowski asked a rather detailed question, which is why we will be addressing this issue in writing, because we are actually talking about this issue, how to meet these expectations, with ARiMR, and also with the Ministry. On the other hand, the electronic circulation of documents between the farmer and ARiMR enjoys great popularity and recognition. We will certainly develop and extend this to all other EU projects that we will also implement through the ARiMR. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u430	The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 6 of the agenda: Report of the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending the Construction Law and some other laws (prints No 2245 and 2279). I would like to ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u431	Thank you very much. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report on the government draft law amending the Construction Law and some other laws. The draft is included in print No 2245 and the committee's report in print No 2279. High Izbo! The improvement of administrative procedures, their digitisation, the approximation of all building law proceedings has been carried out consistently for several months, because digitalisation in the conditions of crisis that we have faced for several months of pandemic is closer to the citizen, and thus in this direction. You have to go. The first swallow in this matter was the Act of 10 December 2020 amending certain laws supporting the development of housing. After its adoption, the first digitization of these construction procedures did not require the preparation of graphic documents in digital form. They were e.g. procedures such as the declaration of construction works, the application for demolition permit, the declaration of demolition, the request for the transfer of the decision on the construction permit, the request for the transfer of the decision on the authorisation for the renewal of works, the request for the transfer of rights and obligations resulting from the notification or the notification of the intended date of commencement of works. These types of proceedings were first digitized. A further extension of the list of procedures available online for which it is necessary to submit an electronic construction project has been introduced with a six-month vacathio legis in such a way that the relevant architectural and construction authorities can properly prepare for their implementation. At that later date they were digitized, among others.: application for a building permit, application for a change of building permit, application for a temporary building permit or application for a simplified legalisation procedure. High Izbo! In this draft Print Act No 2245 goes further in this direction, i.e. the possibility of keeping a construction log in electronic form shall be introduced. This will be done in the EDB system, i.e. the electronic construction log, while the current form of keeping the construction log, i.e. paper, is preserved, described in detail in all documents. If anybody wants, it will be possible for the next few years, the investor will have the opportunity to choose how he wants to document the construction process. This project sets out the rules for requesting and issuing an electronic construction log. The keeping of the journal in paper form so far will be possible to continue electronically. In the opposite direction this will not be possible, which means that it will not be possible to switch from the electronic log to the paper log. The controller of the data in the EDB system will be the Chief Inspector of Construction Supervision. The authorities authorised to control the construction process will have an insight into these data. Each construction log will have an identification number to find it in the system. The investor will only be able to provide the electronic building log number when submitting the documents necessary for obtaining the permit to use instead of submitting the log in paper form. The new rules therefore significantly improve construction procedures. I would add that an unnecessary division is also removed, which concerns the demolition log and assembly log. All these concepts consume, replace the construction log. High Izbo! In connection with the introduction of an electronic construction log, a new chapter 5a is added in the Construction Law, which regulates the detailed issues of keeping an electronic construction log in the EDB system. As I mentioned, the data administrator in the system will be the Chief Inspector of Construction Supervision, who will grant access rights to this system to the competent authorities of the architectural and construction administration and building supervision. Each log will have an identification number in the system. Because of the limited time and the delay we have, I will not be getting into the details in this regard. High Izbo! In addition, the project introduces the possibility of keeping a book of a building in electronic form, in the ECOB system. The book of the building in electronic form, like the electronic construction log, will have its number to find it in the system. The controller of the data will either be, as before, the Chief Inspector of Construction Supervision or the entity authorised by him. The deadline for fulfilling the obligation to establish a building book shall be introduced. This will be a period of 30 days from the date on which the decision to allow use or not to object by the competent authority to the notice of completion of the construction or to change the way of use of the facility. High Izbo! There is no change in the provisions indicating for which works it is mandatory to keep a book of the building and the entities obliged to do so. As in the case of the construction log, it is possible to switch from paper to electronic form, but in the case of a document which was started in the electronic system, there can be no return to paper form. Except for objects located in closed areas where documents are kept in paper form. High Izbo! Revision of the provisions concerning the building book, i.e. enabling the book to be kept in electronic form, is done by adding a new chapter 5d, containing the detailed provisions that I have discussed in a nutshell. The project also introduces a new ICT system, which will keep a central register of persons with building rights and penalties for occupational liability. It will be an e-CRUB system, a central register of building rights. The data that have so far been entered into the IT system on the basis of a decision transmitted by the Chamber in paper form will now be entered by means of electronic forms. High Izbo! In the Act - Construction Law is added another new chapter, Chapter 7a, which contains provisions concerning the e-Construction portal. This portal will enable the generation of applications, notifications, notifications for building law procedures. In the project I'm presenting, in the article. 79a, 18 procedures are being exchanged. High Izbo! These are the amendments to the Law - Construction Law, contained in the article. 1 project. Art. 3 contains two amendments to the Act of 15 December 2000 on professional self-governments of architects and construction engineers. In Article 2, paragraph 2 is replaced by the following: 2 is five amendments to the Fire Protection Act of 24 August 1991. In particular, these are changes that allow the arrangements for building projects to be made in electronic form. This is obvious, at the moment when we digitize the entire construction process, all the procedures, if there were one left, so to speak, I apologize for the colloquial expression, the scab in the form of fire protection arrangements, would be an obvious difficulty. Articles 4 to 8 contain transitional provisions and Article. 9 of the draft provides that the law shall enter into force 14 days after the date of publication, except for certain provisions which enter into force within three other periods: 1 August 2022, 6 months after the date of publication or 1 January 2023. High Izbo! The whole of the project was adopted by the Committee on Infrastructure by 27 votes in favour, with no votes against, with one abstention. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, please adopt a draft law amending the Construction Law and certain other laws contained in the committee's report in print no 2279. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Chairman of the session includes Deputy Marshal Ryszard Terlecki of the Sejm]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u432	Thank you, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Jerzy Paul, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u433	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of the club Law and Justice a position regarding the draft law amending the Construction Law and some other laws contained in prints No 2245 and No 2279. The proposed changes concern the introduction of a further stage in the digitisation of administrative processes in the field of construction and provisions enabling citizens and investors to keep a log on the construction and documentation of works in electronic form. The draft law was the subject of work by the Infrastructure Commission on 24 May 2022. This amendment proposes, as part of the digitisation of building law procedures, the following changes: enabling the EDB to keep an electronic construction log, enabling the EKOB to keep an electronic building book by the ECOB system, regulating the e-Building portal, ensuring that the central registers of persons holding building rights are kept and punished for their professional responsibility by the relevant e-CRUB IT system, allowing for compatibility with the requirements of electronic fire protection: land or land development project, architectural and construction project, technical design and fire-fighting device design. This draft law concerns the issue of digitising the registration of works. The proposed changes are intended to allow entries for events occurring in the course of the execution of works in electronic form by enabling the construction log to be kept in electronic form. The current provisions of the Construction Law do not provide for the possibility of keeping a journal in such a form. The Regulation of the Minister for Development, Work and Technology of 6 September 2021 on the manner in which the construction, assembly and demolition logs are kept clearly shows that the construction log is a paper document. It shall consist of an original and a copy of the perforation enabling it to be easily ripped out. It is therefore proposed to amend the provisions of the Law of 7 July 1994 - Construction Law, which will introduce alternative solutions for participants in the construction process with regard to the current legal situation, i.e. the possibility of keeping a construction log in electronic form. At the same time, it will be possible to keep the existing form of keeping the construction log and making entries in it, i.e. paper form. A 10-year transition period is introduced in this respect. The proposed law introduces the possibility for participants of the construction process to keep a book of the building in electronic form. It is intended to be mandatory to keep a book of the building in the above mentioned. characters. The subsequent amendment to the Act of 7 July 1994 - Construction Law introduces the establishment of a system of a central register of persons with building rights and of persons punished for professional liability. The proposed law provides in the provisions of the Fire Protection Act of 24 August 1991 aimed at enabling the electronic reconciliation of construction projects drawn up in electronic form. The amended law also changes the provisions relating to the possibility of carrying out examinations allowing for obtaining building rights. High Izbo! The Law and Justice Club considers that the amended law is good, needed and expected by professional groups in general construction. Following this, the Law and Justice Club will vote in favour of the proposed amendments to the Act. Mr. Marshal! I would like to make five amendments to the proposed amendment to the law on your behalf. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u434	Thank you very much. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u435	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I present an opinion on the draft amendment to the Construction Law, in print no. 2245 and no. 2279. Dear Ministers, That's 36. The revision of the Construction Law in your governments, and one of the most important conditions for the development of a modern and rich economy, is the stability and transparency of the law. If in the last 7 years of your government you have changed the Construction Law, which is one of the most important laws, 36 times, then Poles have a feeling of instability and inflation of the law. Only with regard to the subject of the investment process's electronicisation in the last year and a half, we are already looking at the third amendment of the building law. Can't this be done properly and holistically? As the Civic Coalition, we support the changes that introduce the electronicisation of the investment process, because these are our 2020 amendments that you are now implementing. It's just a pity that you waited two years because it's a pity for Poles. Do you think we filed them after anger, and that's why you rejected them all, even though they were right, as you now admit, by proceeding over this bill? Like kids, after anger. Why don't you make a complete change so that the participants in the investment process have a more stable and transparent law? It's just a piece of shit. You want this amendment, among others. enter an electronic building log and a building book, regulate the e-Building portal, enter central registers of persons with building and penalty rights for professional responsibility, introduce fire protection arrangements in electronic form: plot development project, architectural and construction project, technical design and fire-fighting device design. It is proposed to introduce a single register of persons with building rights in which persons who have been granted rights after 1995 will be registered from the machine. Persons who have acquired rights before this year will be able to register in the register. The date of entry into force of these provisions is 1 August 2022. This is a completely unrealistic term. After all, this data affects thousands of people, so it requires months of work to be transferred to the register. Currently, ministries are discussing the introduction of BIM technology, i.e. modeling information about a building in which industry works on one model and design is comprehensive. Participants in the investment and construction process can then make changes in real time, which increases the transparency of the project and facilitates communication. This is also the implementation of our 2020 amendment, which you rejected at the time. I ask when such design will be required by law in Poland. In many countries this is already a standard. It is a pity that, in 2020, when we tabled this amendment and the previous amendments, they were rejected by the government, but I see that you have seen that they are correct and that you are implementing them now. As the Civic Coalition Club, we agree with the content of the proposed amendment, although we believe that the changes in the digitalisation and IT of the Construction Law should be carried out in a comprehensive manner, while maintaining the corresponding vacathio legis and taking into account our amendments, including consultation with the House of Construction and the Chamber of Architects. I'm making amendments to the protocol. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u436	Thank you very much. Please, now Mr Maciej Kopiec, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u437	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project on amendments to the Act - Construction Law, the Act on Professional Self-Governments of architects and construction engineers, as well as in the Fire Protection Act introduces a number of changes, including the introduction of a long-awaited e-Building portal, which allows investors to generate applications, notifications and notifications in the form of an electronic document. The portal does not replace ePUAP or the application box in the transmission of applications, so it is not used for the service of writings, but allows them to be generated. Using e-Building will require creating an account based on an email address. The investor in one place will be able to collect applications, notifications, notifications to the construction authorities and supervision. It's a change that we appreciate positively. The subsequent solution ensures that a central digital register of persons with building rights and penalties for professional liability, a central register of building rights, is kept. It is proposed to abolish the need to include a copy of the building rights in the building documentation, instead they will be included in the IT system. The requirement to attach a certificate of entry to the list of competent chambers of professional self-government will not apply to persons entered in the central register of persons holding building rights. This information will be available to the bodies verifying and approving the building documentation. It is a good solution on many levels: from quick verification of allowances, to limiting the length of documentation, to environmental aspects, because you will not have to print paper versions of documents. The Act lacks information on the fees for entering an alert. It should not leave the freedom of professional authorities here. All activities should be carried out at their expense. The novel changes the Fire Protection Act. Allows electronic reconciliation of construction projects. Today, the lack of this possibility makes it difficult and significantly prolongs the procedure. The project includes the possibility to keep a book of the building in electronic form. The current building law does not provide for this possibility. Today, according to the law, such a book has only a paper form. It will be mandatory to keep the book of the building in electronic form. This should be considered and an application should be created that will record any change in such an e-book due to the possibility of securing materials for accidents or construction disasters. However, the solution is positive. The novel allows you to keep the construction log in electronic form by the EDB system. The amendments allow entries for the construction process in electronic form. The investor will be responsible for making the construction log available to other participants in the construction process and denying access to the log. The construction or works manager will be able to make the electronic log available to persons carrying out geodetic activities and to authorities authorised to control it. According to the authors of the project, the electronic construction log seems to be a favorable solution from the investor's point of view. Today, according to the law, the paper-based construction log is constantly on the site. The authors say that this makes it difficult for investors to monitor the progress of their work on an ongoing basis, because it requires a visit to the construction site. The electronic construction log will allow the investor to monitor entries from anywhere on the mobile device without having to go to the construction site. According to many people involved in the industry, such a solution will not improve the construction process, it will only replace the process of monitoring the construction process with a view to the correctness and compatibility of the works carried out with the construction work to the process of monitoring the electronically executed entries. Since the idiotic and dangerous law allowing the building of houses up to 75 m The electronic construction log converts traditional meetings to construction of investors with the construction manager and construction companies to check whether it was - like a Facebook post - published an entry in the application on the phone. Given the fact that construction works always determine the safety of the people who use these objects, we judge the solution negatively. The government has decided to make good changes, because reasonable digitalisation is of course beneficial and necessary, but you lacked the know-how to do it professionally and safely. In summary, the project contains a number of good changes, but the fact that the change to which we have the most reservations is the safety of the construction process and the use of the facilities, therefore the Left Club will refrain from voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u438	Thank you. Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u439	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to present the club's opinion on the report of the committee on the government draft law amending the Construction Law and some other laws. The most important solution in this law is the introduction of an electronic construction log. This will enable the investor to monitor entries made in the construction log from anywhere without having to visit the construction site. Each construction log will receive an individual number, which will enable it to be found in the electronic system and to read the entries for a specific construction. If the construction log is kept electronically, only the electronic number of the construction log will be allowed to be provided when submitting documents for the use of the facility. Time will also be preserved the form of keeping the construction log in a paper version, i.e. the investor will be able to choose whether he wants to document the building process electronically or in a paper version. It was also possible to keep the book of the building in electronic form. The e-Building portal will allow for the generation of applications, notifications and notifications, which can then be submitted in paper form or in the form of an electronic document. Central registers of persons with building and professional liability rights will be kept by the e-CRUB system. It will be possible to conduct the tests in terms of building rights in a more flexible way. There are also cases of coordination in terms of fire protection of land or land development projects, architectural and construction projects and technical projects. In recent years we have had quite a lot of changes to the Construction Law. Many people in these changes are lost. I'm sure there were over 30 of them by now. It would be worthwhile to be tempted to make such a comprehensive amendment that would cover all these changes. With regard to the digitisation processes that are taking place, we are pleased that the Ministry is responding to them by submitting this bill, unfortunately still very imperfect at many moments, but we generally appreciate the positive response to many of the opposition's earlier amendments, which is why we will be in favour of directing this project to further work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u440	Thank you. Mr Robert Winnicki, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u441	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Finally, it can be said that, finally, the topic of entering the Polish Construction Law in the 21st century into the electronic system, although inconsistently, although with large question marks, which we also have regarding this law. However, it must be said that in view of the situation that is currently in the construction industry, this is something that almost no one is interested in today. The situation in the construction industry is dramatic. Today, many construction companies across the country are not really fighting for new contracts, some of them are fighting to get out of contracts already signed, because the inflation situation, the war situation leads to the fact that they are unable to meet their obligations, because under completely different conditions contracts were signed. We have crazy increases in raw material prices. Ladies and gentlemen, when we held a parliamentary panel meeting on this issue more than a month ago, a representative of one of the companies said that the price of reinforcement steel increased by 65%. As far as hard steel is concerned, the price has increased by as much as 91%. Prices are skyrocketing and rising all the time. Some segments of the construction industry have estimated an increase in costs over the last few months at around 150% . In this dramatic situation we must remember that about 20% of steel, e.g. used in Poland in construction in recent years, it was imported steel from Belarus, Ukraine and Russia. Markets, supply chains have collapsed. Today, we should fight for it and work on this Seym to save the construction industry. Some people today dream of rebuilding Ukraine after the end of the war, but the truth is that in order to rebuild anything, anything to build, you have to have construction companies, and this is now a total waste. That's the reality on the market today. We should discuss getting off the employer's costs, suspend, for example. collecting health contributions, returning excise duties to break high fuel prices, considering revalorizing prices in construction contracts. Ladies and gentlemen! Without these actions, Polish construction will simply (the bell) fall this year and this needs to be addressed. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u442	Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u443	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! The bill amending the Act - Construction Law and some other laws contains amendments which Poland 2050 Szymon Hołowni generally supports. The electronic construction log is a long-awaited element of state digitization. On the other hand, we are concerned that these buildings' journals, even if electronics, are assumed to be less and less, because less and less is being built in Poland. The investments are holding back. In the first 4 months of 2022, the number of construction permits decreased, particularly in the housing sector, ladies and gentlemen, by 22.6%. compared to last year. According to newly published data, the construction market in Poland is inhibiting. It's not just housing that's gonna be less. Increase in costs and materials. No employees. No performers. All this can be partly explained by external factors, because the crisis, because war. But it is your sole responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the United Right, that is a huge tax disorder that has caused construction companies to fall one by one today. It is your sole fault that we missed our economy a powerful investment boost - EUR 4.6 billion in advance to KPO. Wherever you look, you don't build that money. You don't build thousands of cheap apartments for rent. No track is built, after which young people from excluded areas could reach e.g. For college. There are no wind farms and new networks capable of collecting excess energy from such popular photovoltaics in Poland. But where there are investments, contractors buy investors an ultimatum - 20% or even 30% of the valorization or we get off the construction site. And it is also your fault, specifically Mr Glapiński, who is completely unable to cope with galloping inflation in Poland. So we ask this question: So what if the building logs are electronic in Poland when they are empty?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u444	Thank you very much. Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u445	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The government draft law amending the Construction Law and some other laws concerns the introduction of digitization into administrative activities related to construction and provisions that will enable people and investors to keep a log of construction, documenting works in electronic form. In short, the amendment proposes the introduction of documents recording what is happening on the construction site in digital form. The changes concern the construction log, the building book, the regulation of the e-Building portal, the central registers of persons holding building rights and arrangements covering the issues of Pomoż, the development of the construction site and the architectural and construction project. The current construction law does not provide for the possibility of keeping a construction log in electronic form. The amendment will make it possible to record construction activities in paper and electronic form. This will make it easier for investors to monitor the construction process without having to visit the construction site frequently. Just a laptop or mobile phone to browse the construction log from anywhere. An additional advantage of the proposed amendments is the modernisation of registration systems for persons with building rights. It is also a matter of ensuring that entries on this subject are of a technical nature and not so far being an administrative decision of the Chief Construction Supervisory Officer, which extended the waiting period for the decision and entry of the authorised person in the register. This will speed up the process of verification and verification of eligible persons. The amendment provides for favourable changes concerning construction managers, investor supervision inspectors, demolition cases and permits for the use of the building. Appropriate changes are also proposed in other laws related to construction, professional self-government of architects, building law, fire protection and the central register of building rights. The project was subject to public consultation and opinion by the relevant chambers, trade unions, associations, federations. Some of the comments submitted were included in the draft. In view of the above, we are in favour of adopting a bill as the Circle of Poselskie Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u446	Thank you very much. We have people who have been asked questions. I'm closing the call list. I'm setting the question time for half a minute. As the first Mrs Małgorzata Chmiel, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u447	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Once again, I would like to ask why you rejected our amendments in 2020 when we tried to change the Construction Law again, and now you are consuming and presenting these amendments as your law. Thank you very much, Minister, for taking care of this at all. But why did it last two years to the detriment of Poles (The Bell) because construction processes could already be activated, especially during this difficult pandemic time, and you waited, waited for two years? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u448	Thank you very much. Thank you. Mr Maciej Kopiec, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u449	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In view of the fact that the project allows the replacement of traditional paper electronic construction logs, in which entries will be made from application level, how does the Ministry plan to train construction managers who have worked analog throughout their professional lives? I would like to point out that the lack of these skills may exclude professionals from the labour market. It has to be taken care of. Does the Ministry plan to create an application to keep an electronic building book, which will rule out the possibility of interfering in the history of entries? [[If you look at the transitional provisions, sir, you will know.]] How will electronic data be secured on government servers? Who guarantees that the data of investors, labour managers and professional self-governments (the bell) will not be like the e-mails of Minister Dworczyk, i.e. available to everyone? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u450	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, Left. There's no envoy. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, also the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u451	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We're talking construction law. The questions that arise are: Have all construction-related professional authorities expressed their opinion on this issue? Do they support this proposal? I wanted to go back to the previous law, which concerned building objects with an area of up to 70 m.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u452	Thank you. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition. [[Half a minute, what can you do in half a minute?]] A question can be asked, Mrs President. [[Voice from the room: How do you feel?]] Great.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u453	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The project needs further work and clarification. It is not entirely clear who is to be informed about the entry in the central register of persons holding building rights. On the other hand, representatives of the National Council of architects and the Polish Chamber of Construction Engineers draw attention to the need to include the procedure for the registration of the rights of non-Polish persons. Please answer the question: Will the above-mentioned issues be clarified at the next stage of the work on the Law? Thank you. [[Please, you can ask a question in half a minute.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u454	Thank you very much. Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u455	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I have two short questions. The first concerns the protection of personal data. The most comments to the project were submitted by the Personal Data Protection Office, which is concerned about the solutions contained in this Act. Although the proposals have been partially taken into account, I ask: What will be the monitoring system? Isn't there going to be a data leak? Second question. When will this project come into force? When's the year zero? That's not part of the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u456	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u457	Why does it have to be forced? While you're breaking it down in time, you're putting it into installments, there's a transitional period, but why is that a duty? Why don't you leave a place in the Republic of Poland for those maybe weirdos who prefer the analog form of human life? What's the harm? If it's good, people will choose it. A hundred years ago, people chose cars without a state order to kill all the carriage horses. Right? But we drive cars. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u458	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u459	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The inclusion of construction law in certain elements of state digitisation is an important and good step, because it opens up a part of the past which could not so far be correlated with digital services. I have a specific question about the design of the e-Building portal. Wouldn't it be possible to create it in a certain symbiosis with a trusted profile and access to digital data so that citizens could use it to a wider extent? It goes on, among other things. electronic delivery. I'd like a written reply. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u460	Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u461	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I wanted to ask how all the parties involved in the construction process are prepared to analyse these regulations today. How much are state institutions prepared for? How much are the municipalities prepared for? It's known that this is a revolution for them. Aren't those regulations gonna be dead? Has the Ministry done anything to make it easier to implement this law in the future?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u462	Mr Grzegorz Wojciechowski, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u463	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The construction book, which is widely understood, is a way to exchange information between the participants in the construction process. The change from paper to electronic form may, in a sense, interfere with the information exchange process. Does the Ministry anticipate any action in this area? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u464	Mr Konrad Berkowicz, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u465	Ladies and gentlemen! When I see what a frightening, complicated, absurd system of building law is emerging here, I wonder how it was possible that before the age of this legislative diarrhea and maniac regulation of everything, putting everything on a thicket of rules, people had a place to live. How is it that even though you don't do the same thing with cars, people have something to drive? Is he able to... The point is to get over yourselves, and if you haven't simplified everything (the bell), at least they've stopped changing it because you've changed it 40 times already. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u466	Mr Jan Szopiński, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u467	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! This project concerns building rights, building permits and the manner in which the building documentation is kept. Recently we adopted a law concerning the construction of residential and recreational houses with an area of up to 70 m.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u468	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u469	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about computerization and the whole area that is connected with computerization, and I ask the Ministry to reply in writing. First of all, what kind of systems are they gonna be? When will they be ordered? Who's gonna own the copyright? What's the ordering mode? How much will it cost to maintain these systems within a year? How will the amendments be implemented? [[♪ The bell ♪]] And is it considered in-house, i.e. an order in one of the institutions of the state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u470	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u471	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Electronicisation of the construction process is an important element, above all, in making the whole process public, and thus also in accessing it to citizens. What surprises me is that it will not be the same as before when the agency had to set up a special company that runs the electronic system, but it will be conducted by the chief inspector of building supervision. Therefore, I wanted to ask you: What are the costs and are you prepared for this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u472	Thank you. Mr Piotr Uściński, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology, will now answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u473	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I am pleased and very grateful to the rapporteur for the detailed presentation of the proposal. I won't do it again, it's been very clear, I don't know if it's even better than I do. I did it at the committee meeting. So congratulations, ma'am. At the committee meeting, he asked me to chair him to do it more efficiently. I wanted to thank you on your behalf for the committee, because the committee has really successfully transposed this bill. Thank you for that. You have asked a lot of interesting questions. I will try, so I can sort them out, tell you a little bit about what this e-book of construction will look like, because there are many questions and doubts about it from you. So basically access to this electronic construction log for users, for participants of the construction process will of course be through the computer, over the Internet, through the phone application, to various operating systems on these phones. It will be integrated with ePUAP, with a trusted profile, with e-service, so that it all works together. Here I answer questions, but the Members who have asked these questions do not listen unfortunately. There was a question about whether there would be any possibility of tampering with information. Of course not. In fact, the electronic construction log will be sure that entries are made on the date on which they are made, there is no possibility of falsifying the data. And what's important, to answer the question of why this tool is needed, I want to say that now, unfortunately, it happens on construction sites, that construction logs are simply dying, that construction logs made in paper form are flooded with water, some parties are sometimes torn down and then construction surveillance must wonder whether it was intentional, whether it was intentional, whether someone wanted to hide any mistakes or not. Keeping an electronic construction log gives security to the investor above all, that the construction was well supervised by the construction manager, that the building, the building was simply carried out in a safe way. Here the prospect of implementation and implementation is a long-term perspective. By 2030 there will be a transition period, either in this form or in this form. And this is a time when certainly all those who are participants in construction processes will have the opportunity to get acquainted with this. Besides, these applications will be simple enough to really not be a big problem to learn how to operate it. We need to move forward, we need to implement these digital tools so that we can keep less paper records, too, so that the offices between us can work together. they didn't have to send that paperwork. It's all part of a modern state. There was also a question about BIM, i.e. modeling information about the building, such integration of multi-discipline information in digital form. We're working on it. It was set up in the Ministry working group on: implementation of BIM, we are preparing this solution, there is a time schedule for this work. I think these objections to the fact that we often change the building law... In fact, I personally feel some discomfort about this. Perhaps it would be better if we had already implemented this law so perfect, so wonderful and that we would not correct it, but please note - in the meantime I have counted it - how many times during the rule of the Civic Platform there have been changes in the Construction Law. And more of those changes were then. If you count exactly, it will turn out that almost 40 times construction law has been changed under the rule of the Civic Platform. In our governments, this number is not so large so far, although I am not saying that it is not big and yet another work is going on, so we will again come to you here with changes to the Construction Law. It will be deregulations, mostly we want to deregulate, we want it to be easier, we want Poles to be able to build their homes in a simpler way, but not only single-family houses, but also other investments, so that there is no certain excess form over content in this construction process. We are working on further positive changes for Poles, for Polish investments. [[And when will BIM be?]] There were also purely political questions or comments on the current situation on the construction market. Yes, the current situation on the construction market is difficult. We're working on it all the time, and it's our concern. I think it's the same as you. And here we would expect from the opposition, we very much ask that you get involved in this in a positive way as well. The claim that problems on the construction market, that steel prices are the fault of Law and Justice, is a misconception. And I think that Poles know exactly what the reasons for inflation are now, so-called. Putinflation, where problems arise with the availability of building materials. In times like this, we have to live. Surely the Government of Law and Justice is trying to find the best possible solutions to ensure that construction materials are not lacking. We're imposing proper sanctions. From Ukraine we do not import those construction materials that we have imported before, and now there is no such possibility. We are trying to respond to this situation on a regular basis. Ladies and gentlemen! There was a question about finance. The project provides costs of less than 4 million, 3730 thousand, as I recall, over 10 years. It won't be much of a cost. Of course, expenditure on this task will be borne as in the case of public money, i.e. in a fully transparent manner. Thank you very much. I'm asking you to accept the bill. I would also like to thank the Law and Justice Club for preparing amendments that consume many positive, relevant observations from the meeting of yesterday's committee. We are facing the expectations of the professional groups concerned. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u474	Mrs Anna Paluch, rapporteur for the committee. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u475	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'd like to answer some questions here. First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the clubs for their declaration of support for this law. It is important that, on such technical issues, some uniformity and consistency be maintained, as was the case at the committee meeting. On the other hand, with regard to these complaints made by the Member of the Civic Coalition, why we did not immediately accept their amendments two years ago, I would like to say, Madame, that they were devout or unholy, but wishes which were not supported by the real capabilities of the architectural and construction authorities. [[They were identical.]] This digitisation of the construction process clearly requires the preparation of those bodies which will have to accept the proposals with electronic attachments, requiring the preparation of three hundred and dozens of old age to carry out these procedures. And that is the reason why these things could not be introduced immediately and had to be introduced gradually. I would like to say that the professional environment of architects and construction engineers expresses the joy of the creation of this ICT system, in which this register of building rights holders will be kept... [[And it was two years ago.]] ...because it will obviously simplify the operation of architects creating construction projects, who must confess at every step in paper form from paper projects, which is a big problem for them. As far as the inconvenient legislative action is concerned, Commissioner, nothing will defeat the Civic Platform's activities, which will change its Article in 2014. The 72th Environmental Impact Assessment Act carried out three projects on this article within a month. 72. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[And that's what you want to equal, isn't it?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u476	Thank you very much, thank you very much. The discussion is closed. The competent committees have submitted a report... Yeah, I'm sorry. In view of the fact that the draft amendment was submitted to the draft law at second reading, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Infrastructure in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. The competent committees have submitted reports on government draft laws: amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws, as well as on the subsequent additional annual cash benefits to pensioners in 2022. Those reports shall be printed in no 2291 and 2292 respectively. Therefore, after obtaining the uniform opinion of the Senior Convention, the Marshal of the Sejm decided in addition to the agenda to include items covering the examination of these reports. The Marshal of the Sejm proposes that in these cases the Sejm consent to the application of the article. 51, paragraph 3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm and in discussions on these items on the agenda, he listened to five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm... [[Objection! I propose five-minute statements for both wheels and clubs.]] [[Voice from the room: But it was meant to be.]] No, we can't vote on this right now, so we're gonna stick to what I said, and we're gonna vote in the voting block. We proceed with the examination of item 7 on the agenda: Report from the Health Commission on the Government draft law amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws (prints No 2268 and 2291). I ask Mr Tomasz Latos to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u477	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Minister! On behalf of the Committee on Health, I have the honour to present a report to the committee on the government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws, prints respectively 2268 and 2291. Today, the committee at its meeting dealt with this draft law. It's a bill that the entire medical community expects. I would like to say that, within a few hours of working on this law, not only Members, but also numerous representatives of the social side, have succeeded in preparing and presenting a proposal to the High House, which is actually a very far-reaching consensus between the various groups, between the different environments. This was emphasised by the various parties involved in the social dialogue in the tripartite committee. The social side, the union side of the Chamber spoke about it in their speeches, the employers spoke about it, and of course the government side also spoke about it. The social side emphasized that negotiations and conversations are based on the fact that it is not so that someone 100% is satisfied, and stressed clearly, and it has repeatedly been that this law is actually fulfilling a lot of demands that have been made by workers' environments, at the same time as the friendly approach of the party represented by employers. In a word, we have succeeded in patronising the ministerial party, the government party, in reaching a compromise which is presented to you today, and is recommended to you. I would like to stress that the committee meeting was also adopted in a fully consensual solution that was expected by the environment's electro-radiology technicians. It so happens that as regards the amendment concerning a certain correction and the transfer of some of these workers from Group VII to Group VI, this request was made by various parliamentary clubs and parliamentary Circles. In the end, however, it was finally accepted together, so it happened that it really was in full agreement. Members from other clubs and other circles also signed the amendment. E.g. I was honored to sign her and introduce her. In this way, in the vote with one abstention, we have all adopted this new solution. This shows, as well as the vote, which was at the end, also unanimous, almost unanimous, because with one abstention, it shows that it was possible to adopt a really good solution, and most importantly, worked in a calm atmosphere, very substantively, very factually and, of which I have great satisfaction, in a really large political agreement. I recommend to the High House that this document be adopted. I wanted to thank Minister Bromber because it is a big thing. It is not often that it will succeed in such a sensitive, financial-related case because it will receive such broad support. This is really, I think, also a great personal success of the Minister, which I warmly congratulate you on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u478	Thank you. [[No, it's not, it's not, there's no compromise.]] [[You weren't at the committee meeting.]] The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and the three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Czesław Hoc, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u479	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law amending the Law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities and certain other laws, print No 2268. High Seym! Not long ago, during the pandemic period, we all experienced either dramatic experiences and events, or anxiety in terms of ensuring a sense of health safety. We all appreciated health as the most important social value. And we all thanked our contemporary heroes - health workers. Today, the Government of Law and Justice, the United Right and the Sejm of the Republic of Poland materializes our gratitude and respect for all medical and non-medical employees of the bill according to the breakthrough and writing history in terms of increasing the minimum wage in health care - the generational law, a law raising the prestige of health professionals, a law which is a concrete incentive to work in health care, as well as a clear proposal to return to the profession and call for young people: it is worth being a medic, it is worth studying and training in medical fields, we warmly invite you. The subject-matter of the bill includes medical entities, professionals and primary workers employed in these entities on the basis of employment relationships, as well as doctors and dentists undergoing post-graduate and specialized training in residency procedures. The Act includes new regulations for non-medical workers by linking the principles of remuneration of workers other than primary workers with the average remuneration in a given medical entity. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The guaranteed lowest wage levels will increase from July 2022, depending on the group from 17% to 41%, with an average of 30% increase in the lowest basic wage from July. Then let the numbers speak. PLN 7.2 billion only in the period of the second half of 2022, let me repeat: 7.2 billion PLN. For a group of doctors with a 2nd degree specialization this is an increase of 1441 PLN, and with a 1st degree specialization - an increase of 2009 PLN. A nurse or a midwife with a professional master's degree with the required specialization, a master's degree in physiotherapy, pharmacy, laboratory diagnostics, clinical psychology with specialization - an increase of 1827 PLN. Master of nursing, pharmacy, physiotherapy, laboratory diagnostics without specialization - an increase of PLN 1590. For a group of medical rescuers, nurses with a secondary education - an increase of PLN 1550. For a group of medical carers - an increase of PLN 1097. For group comprising paramedics and halls - an increase of 632 PLN. High Seym! I would like to emphasise in particular that today's draft law is the result of the Tripartite Group's findings. Health protection of 5 November 2021 contained in the position adopted by the Polish Government, the website of NSZZ Solidarity and OPZZ trade unions and the website of employers' organisations - Employers of Poland, the Federation of Polish Enterprises, the Union of Polish Crafts. Despite some contentious and not all satisfying issues, this is a healthy compromise, a joint consensus. It is enough to say that at today's meeting of the Health Committee, in line with the political divisions, we have honoured electroradiology technicians and stressed the role of laboratory diagnostics, which have so far been underestimated and so very important in the diagnostic and therapeutic process. The appointments made by the president of laboratory diagnostics: you have given oxygen, or you have carried out diagnostics on the surface are a confirmation of satisfaction and satisfaction. In turn, the Chair of the Chamber of Nurses and Midwives expressed her satisfaction with appreciating the importance of experience in the profession of nurses. We also adopted an amendment on the Agency's collection of data on the level of individual components of remuneration and employment in a non-notified form. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Minister! Happily enough, since July 1st, health care professionals will be happy twice. All due to a reduction in the tax threshold from 17% to 12%. Thus, Polish Load will favour health workers from around 13 million taxpayers who will benefit from this change. To conclude, I would like to extend my warm thanks to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki and Minister Adam Niedzielski for improving the quality of work in the healthcare sector, the Tripartite Health Team - for a healthy compromise, and to all Members and Members - for a common consensus. Health should always be connected. I would like to make an amendment on the recommendation of the President of the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies and Tarification. Mr. Marshal! [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Law and Justice Club will welcome the bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u480	Mrs Elżbieta Gelert, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u481	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Civic Coalition, I would like to put forward a position on the law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of certain workers employed in medicinal entities, print No 2268. Ladies and gentlemen! Those working in health care primarily represent the broadly understood medical professions, and this is the basis, but also other professions: technical professions, administrative professions. At the moment, at present galloping inflation, all employees' expectations are and will probably remain high for a long time. As the Minister of Health stressed at the committee meeting, a 17-40-percent increase for each professional group meets the expectations of some of these groups. The 40% increase is actually quite high. Our reservations about the bill are primarily about flattening the pay of specialist doctors, as we talked about. An increase of 0.09, which is not even a 1/10, with an increase of 0,25 for other master classes with specialization... It's a very meaningful difference. I don't know why you treated this particular group like that. Also, professions such as pharmaceutical technicians, laboratory technicians or addictive psychotherapists in the right place were not included in the table for what they were asking for. It is also worrying to assign employees to groups according to their education, not their competence. That's still the problem with all the medical professions. We can expect some dissatisfaction, especially the dissatisfaction of the nurses. Of course, it's a very large group. They have been promised for 5 years that work on establishing this according to competence and not education will be carried out smoothly. I hope that in the near future we will actually get acquainted with the fruits of this work. Staff are also concerned about the lack of clear provisions on retraining after higher qualifications or higher education. Employees fear that the lack of such a clear record may cause the Director to continue to re-train until the following year, that this will not happen immediately after his qualifications have been obtained. It is also about assigning to groups of all employees, as you are now reporting. In that case, the employees will have to have changed engagements here and here. there is also a concern that they may be in a different group with changing engagements. Good records also appeared, among others. a provision concerning the Agency for the Evaluation of Medical Technologies. A very controversial record has been rejected as regards the names of persons employed for both the employment contract and the civil law contract, which seems to have been a very big misunderstanding. At the same time, the agency has absolutely failed to take into account the fact that it will demand more and more extensive information, and betting will of course have to give it all no matter how much it costs, it costs a lot of work, and every job must be rewarded and it is not so that someone at the workplace will additionally carry out very big tasks. Despite a number of comments we have had and which have not always been taken into account, we see the need to adopt a law to protect health personnel from galloping inflation and thus not leave patients unattended. At the same time, we are making an amendment that concerns pharmaceutical technicians. I hope you'll reconsider. I think these technicians will be treated as close to the heart of the president of electro-radiology. I would also like to congratulate the President and the Minister for Health for ensuring that they have provided such an excellent auditorium at the committee meeting. Really, the thanks were endless, everyone thanked and thanked - the honey was so pissing that I really congratulate you for being able to organize it. [[Voice from the hall: As a good bill, there are also thanks.]] Yes, sir. Thank you very much. As I said, we are making an amendment, and the Civic Coalition will support (the bell) the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u482	Mrs Marcelina Zawisza, Club Left. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u483	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Almost every medical profession has staff shortages. The average age of doctors and nurses is growing, approaching inexorably the retirement age. People who have completed medical studies often do not even take up work in Poland. We have significant competition for personnel from the private system. All of this has a very simple background. The wages in Polish health care institutions make the staff want to leave the profession, work in private institutions or simply in institutions in Germany, Sweden or the Czech Republic. There's no choice. Working in public health should make our political decisions attractive enough to stop staff draining, but also make young people choosing college and their professional path say with a clear conscience: I want to work in a public hospital as a nurse, I want to be a laboratory diagnosticist there, I want to be a lifeguard, I want to be a paramedic or a health care provider. Let's move on to the bill issue. It is worth noting that the sixth group in the table, i.e. employees and employees performing medical professions requiring a bachelor's degree and nurses with a secondary education, is a large part of the medical profession in general. Nurses, midwives, paramedics, physiotherapists, analysts - there are as many as 2/3 nurses in this group. And what's in the bill? The coefficient 0,94 and the difficult situation for these doctors, where their minimum remuneration is lower than that of persons who are in a group of non-medical primary workers with equivalent education. It's not about equalizing down, but we need to talk about how these two-thirds nurses appreciate in the salary net, because it's them we miss most at this point, and it's this group that we should encourage to work in the profession. Another issue: medical professions have an obligation to educate and develop professionally. Specialization is done not only by doctors, but also by nurses, pharmacists, lab diagnes. The state adds to the specialization of doctors and nurses, the rest do it is for its own funds, and through this law the Polish state discourages this education, because the educational and professional development of employees is not automatically linked to the salary increase. The state says you can study, but you won't get better money. You have to ask yourself, Minister, whether or not. As a laboratory diagnostic, you would feel an irresistible need to make a difficult specialization for your own savings, knowing that it would not affect your salary. Finally, the issue of an important amendment to this law. Amendment 6th in Article. 1 - agreements amending agreements. It is important for employment contracts to include a specific group under the Minimum Salaries Act. This is a good solution, while the government has not prepared any safeguards against practices that we already know from the previous year, aimed at either adding responsibilities or qualifying to a group that will in the future be excluded from receiving increases, or at all miraculous changes of workers so as not to include them. This was the case with medical recorders, which from day to day became administrative staff. We have tabled an amendment that responds to these problems. I appeal: there is still time to introduce a protection against fraud into the law, so that in a few months' time, in answer to our questions, the Minister does not point his finger at the directors as the source of all evil. Finally, the issue of social dialogue. The documents from the public consultation show that there is a problem in the government with understanding this concept. It is all the more surprising that the bill was presented to us by Minister Bromber, Minister for Foreign Affairs. Social dialogue. With proper comments from trade unions and industry organisations, we read over and over again: we do not take into account. Why? Due to the records of the Tripartite Group's position on Health protection of 5 November 2021 Minister! Social dialogue continues, democracy is daily. Good comments from the social side and the opposition can be accepted even when the anniversary of the last trialogue does not apply. We're talking about basic things today, about pay. It always arouses understandable emotions. Let's focus on this law on securing salaries in health care so that people want to perform medical professions in Polish public hospitals, so that the challenge of the future is how to organize the potential of all those willing to work and well-educated young doctors, not how to build clinics and self-service hospitals. The Left will support this law and appreciate the changes aimed at raising the salaries of health workers, but we can do it better, more meaningfully, and not expose workers to unnecessary unpleasantness in terms of degradation or adding additional responsibilities in a situation where they simply deserve this money. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u484	Thank you very much. Mr Radosław Lubczyk, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u485	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the coalition club, I will present the position of the club vis-à-vis the government draft law amending the law on how to determine the lowest basic salary of some workers employed in medicinal entities and some other laws. Health workers should make a decent living. Doctors, nurses, dentists, physiotherapists, pharmacists, hygienists, paramedics, paramedics, non-medical workers, residents, midwives - members of each of these groups deserve to be able to earn them a good, decent life. We all know that there are a lot of health problems. We have overcrowded hospitals, lack of hands to work, and wages do not encourage the functioning of the public health system. It is our duty as Members of the Parliament of the Republic of Poland to listen to the problems faced by various professional groups, and to put the demands of these professional groups into practice. The idea of raising health workers is a good, necessary and necessary idea. True, PLN 7.2 billion earmarked for this purpose is a good direction in which to go, but the question must be asked: What transfers are you planning to make in the budget of the country in a situation where these increases are due to take place since 1 July? This is not an unreasonable question. We want to know if the state budget is able to bear this burden in such a short time. Dialogue of the Parties to the Tripartite Group for Health protection must continue in the face of new challenges and problems in the public health system. I believe that it is through a compromise solution and the discussions of the parties involved that we are able to develop the best principles worth implementing. However, it is important to keep in mind the crazy inflation and the ever-higher operating fees of health care institutions that do not receive adequate support. Soon, and those measures that are involved may not be enough. Salaries are one thing, but the conditions for the operation of these centres and facilities are equally important. It's time to stop the debt spiral between hospitals and clinics that have to borrow to have money to buy new equipment or pay wages or operate current accounts. These financial commitments must go hand in hand, because we are about to come to a point where a few more will appear in place of one solved problem. These proposals must be system solutions on different levels, so that at one point they can suffocate a spinning circle of problems. Dialogue, compromise, cooperation - these values should guide everyone who is at the heart of the health system in Poland. And here are some questions for the Minister. In view of inflation, how should adjustments to this basic amount be ensured? I understand that this base amount is expected to change every year, but does the Ministry predict that this could change more than once a year? The point is, today we see money losing value, and in a moment these raises won't be as big as it is today. Because, in fact, when you talk to people from the medical community, they're happy with these raises. Of course, it doesn't suit everyone, but it's usually said that this is the right direction. And also my observation: I would very much like to see payments from the National Health Fund, which will concern these payments... The point is, however, that it is not the same as during the pandemic, when because someone from the hospital administration was mistaken for a dot or comma, the COVID money for nurses were held back and nurses or people who were entitled to these salaries were sometimes waiting for a few months for the money that they simply deserved. If someone looks closely at this bill, they will notice that this is actually the right direction. I hope that further laws will increase health measures, which will contribute to the fact that more young people will want to stay in our country. This does not change the fact that we consider the chosen direction (the Bell) to be right. The Polish Coalition Club will support this bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u486	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Korwin-Mikke, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u487	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'll start by correcting it. The great honorable professor Tomasz Latos, chairman of the committee, said that there was a discussion between the government and the social side. That is not true. There was no social side. Members argued about favouring particular groups of workers. It was a triumph of communism. Society, or patients, were mentioned once, by mistake. All this time they were talking about the welfare of individual professional groups. This is typical communism, which has completely won, because in education and medicine still works communism. It's just that man doesn't exist at all. In the normal human system - in capitalism we are guided by man. A nurse, a very good nurse can accidentally make more money than a doctor in a place where there's actually a lot of doctors. It's possible. It's impossible here. It's about the social groups, they've been arguing about the groups. This group is supposed to have that much, and this group is supposed to have that much. There was no human being at all, there were just social groups and we were arguing about social groups. And that, ladies and gentlemen, is the paradox. There's this empathy-based messenger from the Left who was just in an oncology hospital, and she's demanding... [[The voice from the hall: Janusz, come on.]] Don't interrupt me. ...to give more for oncology. And the other messenger, also empathy-driven, demands that she give more to cardiology because she was in a cardiology hospital. Now tell me what powers we have and what opportunities we have to decide whether to give more for cardiology and less for oncology. Communism is that we take everybody's money, we give them one big poop, and then they all eat each other, how to get as much out of this poop as possible for each other. It ends in the same way as in the Health Committee, that it is done at the expense of the taxpayer, that something is given to everyone there, and that all of it will be paid by the taxpayer, who then wonders why petrol prices are rising, the prices in the shops, where inflation is from. So that's where inflation is, that you get the demands of professional groups, not thinking about the taxpayer and not thinking about the patient. Please understand, the market is fair, because it is only the desire of millions or thousands of people that decide, and here we decide. We, and that's what makes the connections, because there's no connections in the market. There's no connections in the market, and this is where you get friends. This Member has a nurse's mistress, so he'll make sure the nurses make more money... [[Voice from the hall: Ha, ha, ha!]] ...and the other way around. Unfortunately, that's the deal, ladies and gentlemen, if there's socialism. [[Voice from the Chamber: Which Member has a mistress?]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] All socialism... I accept your argument. [[Voice from the hall: Now, Janusz, tell me who it is...]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] All socialism is based not on money, but on relationships. In our relationship, and that's what we saw at the Health Committee meeting. The point was, we know, I know what the postulates of dental technicians are, and what kind of lab workers and now we have to figure out if the labs with a master's degree are more important than, let's say, nurses. And we were talking about these groups without really knowing it. This system is ridiculous. [[If you have no idea, don't talk about anyone else.]] It's not that... You have no idea either, because you have no idea. Of course not. Ma'am, professional groups are currently in Poland about half a million (The Bell) and you cannot know their needs. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u488	Thank you very much. Mr Wojciech Maksymowicz, Poland 2050, will now speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u489	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In democracy, of course, different voices should be heard. This one was also very interesting. However, I will provide a reference to the text which has been submitted as a draft law amending the law on the establishment of the lowest basic salary of some of the workers employed in the medical entities that were created, it must be remembered, as a result of the protests of health professionals. They expect real wage increases and improved funding for health care institutions, and so were, and are still, the occurrence of professional unions of nurses and midwives, nurses' and midwives' chambers, the National Trade Union of Doctors, the medical chamber and other representation of professional groups. The proposed solutions are far from those expectations. Indicators, e.g. The 0.94 national average for nurses and midwives with secondary education and not much above national average unity in the case of nurses, midwives with higher education, will undoubtedly not be the factors preventing them from giving up an incriminating job in hospitals, which is often the case and poses a great problem in terms of maintaining staff in adequate quantities and at an appropriate level. Therefore, around 2050, Poland is again submitting an amendment increasing these coefficients. It also takes into account the expectations of other workers, including the representation of doctors. The labour rates set out in the annex to the Act concern the minimum wage, but with a dramatic increase in inflation of more than 12%, workers are not expected to receive more than the minimum. We are alerting that public spending on health care through this inflation will actually make up even less than 5% this year. GDP. The idea of health ministers was collapsing, hoping to increase the share of GDP allocated to health to the level of 7%. Unfortunately, the current expenses relating to data from two years ago give a false picture. I repeat: there will be no increase in real terms, and therefore, in order to provide funding to allow hospitals and other institutions to properly pay nurses, doctors and other health professionals, and to cover up to 30% of energy costs and other charges, we are proposing an amendment which will make a real increase in healthcare expenditure, not referring to the state of the past 2 years, but - as is recorded in the case of defence expenditure - as much as this year. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u490	Thank you. Thank you very much. We are now approaching the questions. Members have come forward, 16 people. I'm closing the list of questions. I'm setting the question time -- half a minute. [[One minute!]] Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050. [[Voice from the courtroom: Mr. Marshal! Mr. Marshal, well...]] We're running late a lot, and we're still gonna be sitting here till hours. 1 a.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u491	But the marshal finishes early, so...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u492	I'm a little early, but I have to think about those who end up at hours. 1 a.m.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u493	Okay, so a very substantive and specific question for the ministry. Well, Minister, the Health Care Benefits Act is based on the amount of health benefits spent on GDP two years ago. It's dramatically out of date. Is the government going to do something about it? Because today is just a disaster. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u494	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u495	A fair number you haven't dealt with before. You estimated a salary increase of PLN 6.5 billion, spent PLN 3.5 billion, and then patched holes after protests, among others. Lifeguards and other groups. Today you estimate: 7.5 billion PLN. I'm asking when I can find out how much the truth will be in this regard. Will local governments bear additional costs, have consequences? Because you didn't make it, among other things. with the Medical Fund, which you haven't used in three years. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Mrs Gelert spoke, among others. about additional tasks and payment. If there are additional tasks in the Chancellery of the Prime Minister, you pay. The budget has tripled. And if hospitals do that, you don't want to pay for it. I would like to ask about balance, but also about pharmaceutical technicians and what Mr Maksimowicz said, among others. the wage ratios. I take Mr Korwin-Mikke's speech as a breaker of joyful, joyful work, a little smile in the hall. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u496	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u497	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! There are no technical staff listed in the annex to this Act. I'd like to ask you if I understand correctly that the raise will be given, for example. Medical recorder, but hospital tech personnel won't get it. I ask, then, what about other hospital workers who are not (the bell) strictly medical personnel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u498	Mrs Marta Wcisło, Civic Coalition. There is no Member. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u499	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The proposed solutions are on average PLN 7.5 billion additionally, which must be received and received by hospitals. On the other hand, I would like to ask the Minister - this is the question I received today from one of the Bydgoszcz hospitals - what about workers who are not subject to primary activity, i.e. accountants, specialists, administrative staff, kitchen staff, technical staff. Can they also count on a raise (the bell) and will the government offer additional funds to hospitals to increase their salary? Minister, I'm going to ask you to answer this in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u500	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u501	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, This important law, especially as it comes out, is the result of a social protest and, as the President, the rapporteur, said, is part of the dialogue with trade unions and other social groups. I would like to ask about these funds, about PLN 7.5 billion. When are they going to be treated? There is a great deal of concern, including the operators of these entities, such as district governments in difficulty, voivodship self-governments. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Do we have a guarantee of financing this project? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u502	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u503	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! We are talking about increases in basic salaries for people employed in medicinal entities. I wanted to ask you about those people that nobody in this bill talks about, administrative and technical staff. When are they gonna get any raises? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u504	Mr Michał Szczerba, Civic Coalition. There isn't. Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u505	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! You don't really care about health care. Where's that dignity you're talking about? If the National Health Fund did not use PLN 10 billion last year, why not hand the money over to nurses and, above all, to nurses of the eighth and ninth grades that are the most affected? It is not their knowledge and experience or competence that counts. Why do you divide nurses for better and worse? [[♪ The bell ♪]] It cannot be that these nurses teach younger than themselves who have a salary of 2,000. zł. When are you gonna see this? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u506	Mr Marek Rutka, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u507	Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Assigning a working factor for medical rescue teams, including a lifeguard and a nurse. They're in group five and six. According to Art. 18 The Labour Code of persons in the same position and with the same powers should receive the same remuneration. Question: "Which factor will apply in the case of medical rescue teams?" [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u508	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u509	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Brief question: Why aren't pharmaceutical technicians treated the same as electro-radiology technicians? There's still a chance to appreciate pharmaceutical technicians, because this is environmental division, unnecessary. I ask you to think about it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u510	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u511	God's greetings to white workers especially. The question is: What do they look like, Minister, prognosis, analysis of staff shortages in Polish hospitalization by reaching Ukrainian personnel? What are you hoping for if you don't get along with the Polish staff? Mr Latos, of course, is making things up. The minister at the committee meeting practiced propaganda of success. [[♪ The bell ♪]] The Polish Trade Union of Nurses and Obstetrics was dismissed with a receipt of his demands. So what are you hoping for when people are quitting their jobs... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u512	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u513	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In the care of bachelor nurses, who often come to me as employees in the service and health care in Bydgoszcz, Nakle, Znin or Inowroclaw, emphasize that they still make little money and their interests are not secured. I think it's time we deal with this social group enough that it's not just serious, but, above all, their satisfaction. They're running abroad because they don't make much money here. They will earn well (the bell), they will not run away. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u514	Mrs Józef Ruchrek-Żelazko, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u515	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Health workers are a particular good in the health care system. For many years they have been underappreciated, although they have great social trust. Therefore, the government already in 2017 prepared a law which guaranteed a systematic increase in wages. This bill has been amended many times. Today we are talking about a unique, unprecedented amendment, because the cost of this amendment is over PLN 7 billion. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Minister! You mentioned that this salary would increase from 17 to 41%. Which groups will receive the highest, or 41 percent increase? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u516	Mr Marek Dyduch, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u517	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I have a question for you. The nurse's profession is very difficult. Nowadays, when everyone wants to live easily, few people get stuck in there and have low wages. But would it be possible in the system to lead to such a situation that e.g. After 20 years as a nurse, in various aspects, would be an addition to the pension of 500 PLN or 1,000 PLN. zł, because it would mobilize such people (the bell) to retire and enjoy more of it? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u518	Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u519	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Of course, we know how underfunded health care is. On the other hand, this law changes these basics of the lowest wage, but the question is how to finance it. So I have a question, Minister, about the financial situation of the NFZ. What are the proceeds to the NFZ for the first quarter of this year? How does the government plan to implement healthcare-related expenditures (the Bell) with increasing GDP? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u520	Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Health Mr Piotr Bromber will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u521	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Before I address your questions, I would like to thank the clubs that have declared their support for this project. Thank you very much for this support, and thank you very much for the course of today's Health Committee meeting. Ladies and gentlemen! As regards the question of collateral, I refer to the assessment of the impact of the regulation, where it is clearly indicated, what is the amount and what is the source - PLN 7.2 billion we spend on additional salary increases and these are additional funds. As far as coverage is concerned, of course this applies to medical and non-medical workers in primary activities, i.e. those workers who are related to the provision of benefits. This question has been raised repeatedly, which means that the answer is necessarily the same. We don't share nurses, on the contrary. A group of nurses, e.g. this professional group will benefit greatly from these changes. If any criterion for division is there, then it is only a criterion for training additional specialisations. These are the basic eligibility criteria for the various groups indicated in the annex to the Act. As far as RTM issues are concerned, because here the question has been raised, these are the provisions of the Labour Code, the provisions of the Labour Code apply and these provisions should be applied. Ladies and gentlemen! When it comes to staff shortages, staffing, among other things. This bill is supposed to give young people a perspective. You're educated, you're graduating from your master's degree, you're doing a specialty, you've got a career perspective and development in your profession. And this is one of the instruments of showing this perspective, among others. young people. We have prepared, for young people, a package of specific solutions to encourage the development of young people. We also increase the number of places in medical courses. In this way we strengthen, among others. the future potential of health workers. [[And then these people don't work in the profession.]] As far as the group with 41% growth is concerned, it is group 6 and in this group 6. There are nurses and paramedics. As for the forecast of the NFZ contribution, we will answer this question in writing. With regard to addressing the question and these suggestions, the comments on dialogue, we are trying to have a broad dialogue. I think today's committee hearing also confirms it in some way. How are we trying to conduct this dialogue? We talk to everyone and about everything. Thanks again to the clubs for supporting this bill. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] [[Voice from the room: Bravo!]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u522	Thank you very much. Would you like to speak? Mr Tomasz Latos.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u523	Mr. Marshal! I'm just gonna say two sentences. Thanking you for this debate, I urge all of you - I know that this matter related to the Committee on Health is not easy, but those who have asked questions also talk about salaries - I encourage you to look at how much wages are currently being paid, especially after these increases in health care. It is also worth looking at in the context of other professions outside health care. I urge you to speak on this matter only then. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u524	Thank you. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Health Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Report from the Infrastructure Commission on the Government draft law amending certain laws on the financing of housing programmes (prints 2133 and 2187). I ask Mrs Anna Paluch to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u525	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I present a report on the Government's draft law amending certain laws on the financing of housing programmes, print No 2133. The project entered the Sejm on 31 March this year, and its first reading took place on 7 April. It was then addressed to the Infrastructure Committee. The Commission carried out detailed work on the project on 26 April, resulting in a report in print No 2187. High Izbo! The aim of this project is to improve the financing mechanism for the social and municipal building programme, including non-refundable financial support from the state budget, primarily granted to local government units and public benefit organisations for the development of construction that meets the needs of people with lower incomes. In recent years, the Sejm has adopted many amendments to the laws standardising the housing policy of the state, including social and municipal construction. These were among others. Law of 20 July 2018 on State aid in the payment of housing expenses in the first years of renting an apartment, Law of 10 December 2020 on the amendment of certain laws supporting the development of housing or Act of 16 December 2020 on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal property stock. High Izbo! The project introduces amendments to 25 laws, starting with the Act of 8 March 1990 on municipal government, and ending with the Act of 16 December 2020 on the settlement of the price of premises or buildings at the price of real estate sold from the municipal real estate stock, i.e. the Local Estate Act for land. Here's the most important of these changes. Namely, with regard to the Payment Fund, the expenditure rule is adjusted, which will allow the Bank of National Farms to conclude contracts with beneficiaries for financial support only within the limit of expenditure fixed for the financial year in question. The selection of applications by September of a specific year and the examination of applications not considered in the following year due to the exhaustion of the limit of appropriations will follow. In addition, there will be a statutory definition of the maximum envelope within the total limit of expenditure on the social and municipal programme in such a way as to guarantee money for key projects, i.e. to create a housing stock of the municipality and a new social rental stock. There will also be flexibility in the agreements between Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego and the beneficiaries, which will allow the beneficiary to update the amount of support by 10% at the request of the beneficiary. High Izbo! As regards the Government Housing Development Fund, the provisions are clarified so that, in the event of a non-implementation by the social housing initiative of the public service in accordance with the agreement concluded with the municipality, the funds will be returned to the Government Housing Development Fund or to the Dopłat Fund, while the unused funds of the municipality may be allocated to other social and municipal construction projects. The rules of operation of the Payment Fund shall also be adapted to the change in the time horizon of the programmes supported by that Fund. The project also amends the National Property Resources Act, including financial reporting provisions. The number of members of the supervisory boards of social housing initiatives indicated by the National Property Resources is reduced and the rules on their remuneration are clarified. It is possible to transfer the real estate to the municipality by KZN in order to dispose of it under the rules of the law of the premises for land. The obligation to agree with the competent minister a resolution of the municipality council laying down the rules for the disposal of immovable property shall also be introduced. It is a resolution adopted in accordance with the Article. Four laws of the place for the ground. The difference between the price of the land and the price of the premises is the income of the National Property Resource. In addition, powiats are involved in the mechanisms of operation of the locale law for land. High Izbo! The Act of 21 June 2001 on the protection of the rights of tenants introduces the entitlement for municipalities to extend more than three months of the period for which persons who apply for a municipal establishment will have to indicate their own income by way of a resolution. The point is that the municipality can address help to those who really need it. The definition of remuneration in the longer term will simply allow those who actually make little money and who need it. The same solution will apply to the procedure for granting housing allowances. High Izbo! During the work of the Infrastructure Committee, 11 amendments to Article were introduced in the draft. 4, Article 13 and Article 13 of Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 347, 20.12.2013, p. 19 and amending the amendment to Law 31 March 2020 amending the Law on specific solutions related to the prevention, prevention and eradication of COVID-19. It is an amendment which restores the normal functioning of meetings and general meetings of housing cooperatives, together with the legislative implications of this change in the transitional provisions. I'm talking about art here. 6, Art. Article 8 and Article 8 10. An amendment was also introduced to the Law of 1 October 2021 determining the interpretation doubts concerning the scheme Living without own contribution, including the relevant transitional provisions in the article. 7, 9 and 11. The Commission rejected the amendment to Article. 20, i.e. to the Law of 22 March 2018 amending the Law on Financial Support for the Creation of Social Housing, Protected Housing, etc. This amendment doubles the amount of expenditure from the State budget to the Fund for Payments. This amendment was tabled by the applicants as a minority request. However, it must be borne in mind that, at a time of increasing inflation, consideration should be given to every dollar flowing to the market. I think that this reflection should also guide the applicants for this amendment. High Izbo! The Committee on Infrastructure adopted the whole of the bill by 27 votes in favour, with no votes against and no abstentions. High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, I ask that the Act amending certain laws be adopted on the financing of housing programmes contained in the committee's report in print No 2187. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u526	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. Mr Jerzy Polakzek, First Member, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u527	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice to present a position on the government draft law amending certain laws on the financing of housing programmes. Of course, our parliamentary club fully supports the government's submission. This is all the more important because this project is a continuation of the government's reform of social and municipal housing programmes. This is followed by more money for social housing. This project is also in line with the objectives of the National Housing Programme, which is, I would say, the basis for national housing policy. The government also consistently supports the implementation and development of rent building by introducing further solutions to facilitate social housing investments, and one such solution was the provision in the state budget of funds for local governments to finance housing investments and increase the so-called increase in the amount of housing investments. non-refundable financial support provided by the Donation Fund. These changes introduced by the government have recently been a major breakthrough for the housing sector. In 2021, as we all know, there was a record interest in the government housing support programme, and nearly 15,000 will be created as part of the complex applications for funds from this programme. dwellings accessible to people with income who do not allow themselves to meet the needs of housing. Through this action we want to maintain the dynamics of social housing development. In this respect, the government proposes further programme improvements: the changes in this proposal relate primarily to increasing the support of local governments in building housing resources for rent. Mr. Marshal! High Seym! The solutions contained in the project will also ensure a more efficient use of the funds allocated to the implementation of housing programmes, as you know, and thus the expenditure of local government units, investors or entrepreneurs involved in the construction of rental apartments will decrease. The introduction of new rules on the limitation of social and municipal measures for a given year in the Act is, I would stress, more flexible and, above all, increasing the availability of these measures. The identification of additional sources of funding for housing programmes through the sale of treasury securities will certainly have an important impact on the stabilisation of the financing of such projects by municipalities. The project, of course, is considered to be very important in society; it indirectly concerns people through local authorities who require state support to meet housing needs due to low income or difficult living situation. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The lack of legal solutions proposed could result in a lack of improvement in the availability of residential and municipal housing and in the lack of funding for housing programmes at the level of the needs reported, thereby halting the adoption of applications for financial support for municipal housing investments. Meanwhile, our parliamentary club has still analysed the report adopted by the committee so far and calls for an additional 11 more detailed amendments, including. in such a way that the obligation to start the investment is no later than 12 months after the date of participation in the social housing initiative by the municipality. This is aimed at accelerating the implementation of investments using government support measures. In addition, in the event of specific situations, a procedure was provided for requesting the Minister responsible for Construction (Ring) to agree to postpone the time limits referred to in that provision. So that's it for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u528	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Sibińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u529	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Well, you guys didn't get the housing programs, and we've got another amendment to the instrument we've been talking about, doubling some TBSs, changing the name, because it has to be your way all the time. The housing crisis is a fact. It is now being deepened due to the need for housing for refugees. There is no final solution because we have limited trust after these large programmes such as Living+, Government housing programme, etc., changing ministers, introduced various laws. After all, there are solutions available on the market such as... There is a Polish contribution, e.g. Polish companies that build modular houses and successfully do so in Sweden, Germany. We lack such instruments. In my opinion, the SIM raises more and more doubts, because I have the impression that they will be such very inefficient organisms. Several communes join together - they join, they get money to contribute, to join. But you know what's going on - the board of supervisors, the next jobs. I have the impression that it is such an attempt to prepare some soft landing for PiS activists who will find their jobs just like this. on these supervisory boards. KZN is strongly encouraged to have suitable places for their representatives, etc., etc. It says a lot about the project, for example. regulate rents. Today we're talking about adjusting rents when there's inflation when everything goes up. It's too much to say that this bill will help. We had this performance about two weeks ago: Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, President of Glapiński. Mr Morawiecki left and presented a plan to help Poles pass through this difficult time raised interest rates. That also applies to the housing program, the loans. The Prime Minister called for banks to establish a more fair mechanism for calculating credit costs than WIBOR, as WIBOR is not transparent. I understand that he admitted that this was an unfair instrument, and I think that many borrowers who are going to assume court cases will have full right to call Prime Minister Morawiecki as a witness in this process, because he said so. The mess you've created, because President Glapiński raised his feet, he didn't want to, and then he picked up... That's where our limited trust in this comes from. And if you still introduce such a provision in a law that deprives local governments of the possibility of managing community real estate, and at the same time you grant the possibility to SIMs, then I have the impression that you want to force local governments to create or approach these SIMs. I really don't see any sense and logic here, and that's why I'm making amendments in this area to withdraw this unnecessary provision. But following the appeal of the members of the TBS, I also make an amendment that introduces that the shares that are collected in TBS may, in the event of death, be taken over and inherited by the heirs. This government proposal is anti-social, violates the constitutional rights of tenants and needs to be corrected. From here, as I said, our amendments. And despite a lot of mistrust... As you have noticed, all the programs that talk about apartments and give some hope that housing will be built, we support and so will be in this case, while we will certainly look closely at how these SIMs work. I just want to remind you of an institution such as the Polish Wooden Houses with huge earnings of the board, and poor results. I hope that's not the case with the SIMs. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u530	Thank you. Mr Adrian Zandberg, Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u531	High Izbo! Poles feel that this Sejm is separated from their everyday affairs for a reason. Today we're talking about an important matter, an apartment. There's a rare opportunity to change that belief. There is also an opportunity to remind you of reality, so it is never enough to remind you in this House of reality. A few leases, ladies and gentlemen, from my constituency from the ad service. Apartment 31 m I don't know if you remember, some time ago you had a project, a good project to take care of animal rights. It was called a five for animals. Before you chickened out from the lobbyists who were skinning animals, you (Applause) had a passage there that said that animals could be kept in a pen. only if they have adequate space. If the animal was supposed to have up to 50 cm in the ball, the pen was supposed to have not less than 9 m. Housing policy, in which people's needs are to satisfy the market and developers, simply went bankrupt. In recent months, mass migration from Ukraine has unveiled it with all its power. For years there was a rule here: handle it, take credit. But even today this is no longer possible, because since President Glapiński takes part in the competition: who will raise interest rates highest in Europe, millions of Polish families lose their ability to take this loan. You have allowed - to be clear - this criticism I direct very widely - that a roof over the head, to which every man should have the right, become a commodity to which he speculates. Today, the real estate market is doing parking for the richest money, for international funds, and in big cities, they're scaring the deserts. In many places, the centers are deserted. Where people have lived so far, apartments have been bought for pseudo-hotels, let's say short-term, and you have done nothing, absolutely nothing to limit these pathologies. And that's, among other things. It's what makes prices so crazy, it's like that. so bitter the bill pays for the failure of the housing policy of the young generation. Ladies and gentlemen, there is only one way out of this mat: the state must take responsibility for the construction of apartments, apartments with regulated rent. That's what money is needed for, money for local governments to finally start building on a larger scale. This bill we're discussing today is not bad, but until this legal framework is filled with real money from the budget, nothing will change here. You have written the support limit of PLN 1 billion in this act. It's too small. Looking at the scale of the housing crisis we're facing today, we see that it's just ridiculously small. I'm guessing why this amount is like this. You don't want to piss off the developers, you're afraid of the reaction of the banking sector, but the truth is, without pissing off those who are gaining on this pathological situation today, nothing's gonna change. Either you start building these apartments for rent, or the prices will continue to rise. Ladies and gentlemen, we have tabled an amendment raising the limit of appropriations for this purpose, and at the committee meeting, your representative, the Ministry's representative, admitted that it is the right amendment that he would like to accept it, but he also admitted openly that it was forbidden to support it. So I urge the PiS Members to ask themselves, on whose side are they: on the side of the pathodevelopers, who are pushing people's apartments for huge money 9-10 m each
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u532	Mr Jacek Tomczak, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u533	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! It is undoubtedly that we are discussing important provisions of an important law today, but we also need to pay attention to some statistics on what housing looks like today. Today, from all studies and discussions on the scale of the problem this project concerns, it appears that social housing is today 1% in Poland. , a 99% These are private and development investments. So, to put this discussion in some reality, this attention to these processes, of course, important... We agree that municipal and social construction is needed, and the support of municipalities in this area is needed. The problem is only one: you have a proposal for 1% housing construction in Poland, and you have no significant proposal for 99% of this market and for Poles, who are simply waiting to have meaningful housing programs, which are not available today, which are missing. It is certainly not the solution of what Mr Adrian Zandberg said, that all these apartments will build the Polish state, state construction is not a solution. No, because 99% construction is private construction, development, it is a private initiative, not public and public. And these are our partners, Polish entrepreneurs who build on the housing market. You have to talk to them to solve these problems. It is worth noting that today there is no sensible housing policy, on the contrary - there is a harmful policy. Millions, hundreds of millions of dollars for programs that don't have any effect. For example, projects are introduced that increase the price of 1 m [[Spare me the propaganda.]] We're going to rise prices that can reach up to about 20% this year. housing prices. Poles just can't afford it. You have no proposals for them or for entrepreneurs in this market. We have a significant decrease in investment in this area, because in the case of housing investments, the decrease is already about 30%. In some cities the offer of apartments decreased by up to 70% as regards the market for new offers available to Poles. There are virtually no customers who are able to lift this decline in credit. On average today the Polish family lost about 40% Your ability. Most credit transactions have actually fallen off the market. There is no proposal about Polish families, how to change it. And these proposals historically on the Polish market were already there. Firstly, today we need to talk about how to improve access to land. The main reason for the price increase in the development market is the increase in land value and lack of access to land, even though they are blocked e.g. in KZN and in many companies of the State Treasury. This land needs to be launched as soon as possible, paved, allowed to enter the market, so as to facilitate and transform as much land as possible into housing investments. We've got a completely dead-end, life-stricken, guaranteed housing credit bill. I know that negotiations are taking place, and hopefully these price limits will be amended in this law, which does not really apply to most Poles today. But we had a much better project than a guaranteed mortgage law. It was a project by MdM, under which the Polish family received a subsidy to equity capital (Dzinek), its share decreased.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u534	Thank you very much. Mr Michał Urbaniak, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u535	Good. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u536	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Today we are talking about a law that is designed to facilitate the financing of housing programmes. In this act we see several risks, because the increase in funding limits by Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego also increases the risk in this case of lack of good control over the spending of public money. And all the time, we're all about how you're letting go of reins, getting loans -- here it's going to be for housing almost for a subscription. The problem is that social and municipal buildings still do not replace their own housing that citizens want, because it gives stability, security, such property, in itself being a property, also gives greater independence. I don't think there's much to discuss. And I don't want to over-criticize, because the fact that today's housing problem is so big, makes it a rule: all hands on deck. However, in this context, And there's no way to say anything about the flagship project you had. You'll remember exactly where you live. The NIK report here was ruthless. The implementation of this programme has not produced any meaningful results. It was supposed to be 100,000. The apartments in 2019 and you built 15,000, another 20.5 thousand, at least in October last year, were under construction, which is not even half of what you assumed. It's sad. Sad for Poles above all. The main reasons were the lack of effective and coherent legal solutions - I have doubts as to whether this law contains them - slowness in implementing implementing implementing acts. NIK also pointed out that the initiatives undertaken by the subsequent ministers to improve this programme did not include comprehensive solutions for the use of the Treasury's assets, the land that the Treasury has today. We know that the government, as you can see, will not help Poles to live in their own apartment. That's the truth. Poland, however, is a country of hardworking people and people are able to earn their own money, earn their own money for these apartments, but they must first of all not be disturbed, facilitate this task. And here we need incentives to save money. Especially in the context of inflation that we have today, saving should also be a priority for our country. Thus, the Confederation proposed residential savings accounts exempt double from tax, at the entrance and at the exit - first from income tax, later from Belka's tax. It just has to pay off for Poles. And this is where it should end (the bell) this distribution policy...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u537	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u538	...for sound monetary policy. You know that. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u539	High Izbo! Since the Marshal has called the Senior Convention, I am declaring a ten-minute recess. [[Adjournment from 10 a.m. 20 minutes 10 hours 20 min 22]] I'm reopening the session. Mrs Hanna Gill-Friday, Poland 2050. You're welcome. We moved tomorrow's vote two hours earlier, at two o'clock. 19. It was the subject of the Senior Convention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u540	Great. Dear Marshal, High Izbo! Housing support instruments are a large tool catalogue for municipalities, TBSs, SIMs, investors and a whole range of other entities where we still hope to increase the offer of affordable housing. We are constantly improving this system and this is the subject of this law. It raises no greater doubt. However, despite the good intentions of housing in the social and municipal sectors, the amount of cat weeping continues to increase, especially when compared to 200,000. the premises submitted by the developers in the record-breaking last year. So the barriers lie somewhere else. Moreover, new questions are emerging, e.g.: Why according to CSO data announced this week we have more than 12% in Poland A desert? That's 1800 grand. places where only air lives. At yesterday's Parliamentary Group meeting. We discussed how to change it, avoiding complaining as far as possible. Among experts, urban planners, engineers, developers, financiers and representatives of the Ministry of Development, there were very interesting ideas on how to get out of the current impasse. You can e.g. bet on modern modular construction with prefabricated, of course taking into account urban standards. You can enter so-called. ZRIM, like the road ZRID, for social construction, and may even establish social construction with a public goal. You can also do that. Take a look at the lease rules so they don't scare the owners away, but they don't hurt the tenants who sometimes have their problems. It could be a prescription at least for some of the empty houses in a private resource. You can e.g. better use the land that is currently in KZN's resources and companies of the Treasury. These and many other valuable proposals will, of course, be handed over to the Minister after we have written them down. But above all, the conclusion that we have from yesterday's meeting is to put housing out of the political carousel, because the fact that the various institutions, the various parts of this system, are still becoming political loots and wandering around here, it really does not serve to implement or support good housing programs. I still hope that we are moving one step at a time towards more affordable housing in Poland, and I will not rest until they really are. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u541	Thank you. Mr Stanisław Żuk, Kukiz.15. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u542	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The draft law amending certain laws on the financing of housing programmes and the provisions on the management of real estate of the National Property Resources optimises the financing mechanism of the social and municipal building programme. It also sets out the procedure for dealing with non-exploited social housing initiatives by means of the Government Housing Development Fund. According to this regulation, in the case of the social and municipal housing programme, Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego will be able to conclude contracts for financial support with beneficiaries within the limit of expenditure fixed for the financial year in question. These changes will increase the number of qualifications in 2022. The programme also includes the expected non-refundable financial support from the state budget of local governments and public benefit organisations for the construction of housing for people with lower incomes. Other positive solutions in the project include: the financing of the social housing programme from the funds obtained from the sale of treasury securities, the determination of the procedure for dealing with unexploited social housing initiatives with funds from the Government Housing Development Fund, which will allow the use of these funds for the construction of municipal housing, housing for rent or assisted or intervention housing. In turn, the clarification of the housing scheme rules will allow for the possibility of updating the amount of support provided under the social and municipal building programme in the event of an increase in investment costs. It is worth noting that there will be a reduction in rents in the housing stock financed by the State budget and a way to fully account for the participation of individuals in the rental of premises in the social resources of housing initiatives. In addition, it is assumed that financial support for municipalities involved in the social housing initiative under which the uninhabited building is renovated or rebuilt will benefit from these social initiatives, the majority of which is owned by the municipality. Finally, rules on, among other things, will be clarified. transfer of real estate to municipalities for investments based on solutions: land premises and provisions to safeguard the interests of the State Treasury in the event of disposal by the municipality of real estate transferred to the implementation of the investment. As the Circle of Poselskie Kukiz.15 - Direct Democracy, bearing in mind that the proposed solutions meet most of the social expectations and improve the implementation of municipal construction, we are in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u543	Thank you very much. Members joined the questions. Closes the list of questions. I'm setting the time to ask you a question for 0.5 minutes. Mrs Henryk Krzywonos-Strycharska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u544	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Young people who have entered the labour market and started a family have a huge problem buying an apartment. The prices are rising, and the payments are going up. A very good solution would be to create cheap, I repeat: cheap apartments for rent. Therefore, I have a question: When will this be possible on a large scale? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u545	Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u546	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Talking about apartments is talking about being or not being Polish families, literally. According to research for 1/4 Poles, lack of housing is a reason why they do not choose to have children and start a family. You often say that in these days the safety of Poland is the most important. Agreed, but there will be no safe Poland as long as the Polish family is not safe, and the family without a roof over their heads is not safe. The family that lives in fear that the bank will come and take her apartment isn't safe either. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen (the bell), let us take care of safety, let us take care of the family, let us build apartments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u547	Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u548	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Unfortunately, in recent months this gap between Poles' income and housing prices has increased, increased to the level of 2008, and this is dramatic. And Poles want to buy apartments, not rent them. On the other hand, when it comes to renting, there is a problem with the safety of those who offer apartments for rent. The question is whether the Ministry intends to make the rental area flexible (the bell) so that those who rent are sure that they will recover their property regardless of the situation of the tenant. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u549	Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u550	Ladies and gentlemen! Instead of supporting prosperous social housing societies, you are creating social housing initiatives, which are a great unknown. In a recent report, NIK crushed the government's efforts, especially with regard to the Living + ¿ programme, and praised the local government for implementing housing policy. How much longer before you hand over housing to local governments (the bell), what have we been postulating for years? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u551	Mr Krzysztof Piatkowski, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u552	Ladies and gentlemen! I would like to wish you good luck in solving the housing crisis, but I do not believe that you are able to succeed. This is best demonstrated by the failure of the Ghost Apartment+ programme and the fraud done by the President of the National Bank of Poland, the worst central bank president in Europe, who told young people who decided to buy the apartment that there would be no increase in interest rates and that we would be threatened with deflation instead of inflation. You are unable (the bell) to succeed. You don't have credibility. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u553	Something you didn't have time to ask. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u554	Prime Minister Kaczyński! You promised an apartment of 2.5-3,000. PLN per meter, and after 7 years of your government there are 10,000 and even 15 thousand. zł. Prime Minister Morawiecki, for yourself you were able to extort a plot from the Church. Why don't you do it to the rest of the Poles and Poles? Mr. Kaczyński, you've arranged a billion-dollar funding for the construction of two towers for your home, and you can't handle it for the rest of the nation? For seven years, you have been filling people with cables, and you have only mammified people with promises of houses (the bell) and dwellings. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u555	Mr Rafał Adamczyk, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u556	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! As important for every family, a young family is an apartment or a house, we all know perfectly well. When will there finally be a specific program that will allow young Poles and Poles to buy their own corner with the right number of square meters and at a price that they can afford?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u557	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u558	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, It was thanks to the Left in the National Reconstruction Plan that the construction of 71.5 thousand was saved. low-cost apartments for rent and, among others, modernisation of deserts and municipal housing. In view of the above, I would like to ask you at what stage of implementation is the National Reconstruction Plan for the construction of cheap apartments for rent. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u559	Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u560	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Any solutions for the financial support programme for housing investments cease to be valid even before they are signed due to inflation prevailing in Poland, while the adoption of any quota ranges for the years 2024 or 2025 compared to today's inflation is just a waste of time and cheating society. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u561	Małgorzata Płępek, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u562	Instead of 100,000. Accommodation+ is only 15 000 ready. The Living Programme did not start for good without its own contribution and it already needs to be changed. For houses up to 70 m
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u563	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u564	Even before the end of March, his Excellency, Ambassador of Ukraine in Poland, Mr.Deszczyca informed in an interview: As for housing, we are now working with the Polish government on the adoption of a state program ensuring construction at a rapid pace, but quality apartments for Ukrainian citizens, who are going to stay in Poland. The question is, is this the program? Is that what we're working on right now? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Is that what this cheap apartment is all about? Please respond in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u565	Mrs Zofia Czernow, Civic Coalition. Mr Dariusz Wieczorek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u566	I didn't expect to see you so soon. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have a question about funds from KPO, because in KPO there was an amount of about PLN 5 billion for the construction of apartments for rent and assistance to local governments, but the government also promised that there will be an additional PLN 5 billion or PLN 6 billion in the budget. We know that we need far more of these measures. In the context of the Left amendment, please indicate what funds are planned in the budget for the (Ring) housing programme. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u567	Mr Maciej Necessary, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u568	What's with the slogan: living by law, not by merchandise? It is so that the country's housing policy is not done to ensure that the insatiable banker-patodeweloper hydraulics can eat, but that people have a place to live and do not spend 3/4 of their earnings. However, the need for large-scale public rent building and the end of the bandit mortgage loans based on variable interest rates and WIBOR is necessary. You won't be able to build any more apartments. You have time to adopt the Law of the Freezing Left (The Bell) of the loan instalments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u569	Mrs Daria Gosek-Popielek, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u570	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Mr Tomczak! Don't worry about the developers. Developia announced that this year the margins of developers will be as high as 30%. Unless you want it to be 40%. - then actually beg for developers. Worry about people, because in 2019 40% of Polish families had too much income to get social housing and too low income to get credit. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There was no advice for these people, and that is the real problem we need to address. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u571	Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u572	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Living by law and not by goods - in this one brief sentence should include the whole housing policy of the state, the policy of responsibility, effectiveness and safeguarding the interests of millions of people who nest in small quarters today, which do not give a chance for a normal life. Without rational support and responsible strategic state policy, there will be no chance for young people to have their apartment. If they don't have their apartment, they're gonna have a bad life.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u573	Mr Marek Dyduch, Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u574	Mr. Marshal! High Seym! I wanted to ask you about two areas of construction. The first area is the cooperative area. Why are cooperatives so passive in building new apartments, even though they still have a lot of land for construction? And second question: Why is it not worth building municipal housing for municipalities, cities? One thing is to keep up: about 20% of people don't pay rent, so they don't want to get in trouble. But what are the other reasons why cities don't build community housing? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u575	Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u576	The rule of law and justice between 2005 and 2007 is a promise of 3 million apartments - fiasco. The programme's promise to live and live: 100,000. apartments - fiasco, 15 thousand were realized. Removal of residences for young people. As far as this project is concerned, I think the first year will be a failure, because the qualification of the proposals is until the end of September. 1 billion PLN - how are you going to make such a number of apartments? I have an important objection. Is the introduction of government aid for SIM participation contributions considered for this kind of solution? Finally, how does the marshal feel about giving us 30 seconds to ask questions? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u577	Very good, Member. Mr Jacek Tomczak. Mr Wiesław Buj, the club of the Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u578	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to thank Mrs Paluch for the amendment tabled concerning the introduction of the statutory possibility to convene general meetings of cooperative members. If this amendment does not pass, the Minister should urgently address this issue, because the members of the cooperative bear the blame for the fact that they do not convene meetings, and in fact urgent legal regulation is needed in this case, because this law has frozen the possibility of convening the assembly boards by way of an entry in the act that this is possible only after the pandemic has ended. [[♪ The bell ♪]] So please make sure that this amendment goes through.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u579	Mr Krzysztof Grabczuk, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u580	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! No apartments today is one of the most important problems in Poland. The possibility of people having their own apartments is even further removed by yeast and inflation. All the programs that PiS proposed, among others. Accommodation+ or 100,000. The apartments, they ended in a fiasco. I have one fundamental question: When are you going to present a relatively real programme that will de facto contribute to the fact that housing will be more accessible to Poles? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u581	Thank you very much. We've exhausted the list of enlisted Members. Mr Piotr Uściński answers the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Development and Technology.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u582	Dear Marshal, Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The rapporteur presented the draft law, so I will no longer repeat the description because it was very well presented. I will only remind you of the most important thing at the moment, which, apart from many other amendments to our housing programmes, which so far function well, we want to do, i.e. to allow the Fund to spend the payments of such money which are there as free funds. So far, the bill has this limit of annual expenditure on the state budget. We want you to be able to spend the money that is, for example. saved this year from other tasks carried out by our ministry - there is 1,200 million, and even more money, which we want to mobilise for the Dollar Fund. Let me remind you that the Dollar Fund is the money that goes to the local government, and thanks to this money in large part are carried out by local authorities tasks related to municipal and social housing. Since last year we have really big growth and construction of new municipal apartments, and renovations of existing residential tissue. We also want this money to be used by local governments for renovations, preparation for the residence of deserts, which are owned by local governments. We know the preliminary data of the GUS, which have been published, with a large number of voids, and we are waiting for them to be clarified. But today we know for sure that a large part of these deserts are deserts that the municipalities have. I think that the funds from the Dollar Fund will serve this purpose well - in connection with the renovation of these deserts, bringing them to their usability. Let me remind you that you can get up to 80% of this from the Dollar Fund, so this is the specific money that will make it possible for specific municipal, social, temporary housing - this resource, the housing tissue made available by the municipalities. I'm gonna go over a lot of questions here. There was a question about the rental market. To answer this question, I would like to say that there is at the moment a tool such as occasional rental - a contract that is, I think, safe for both sides and that is how it works. We have made small adjustments in this respect, allowing even the use of this tool to people who came to us from Ukraine and are unable to indicate the address at which they could be accommodated, so they can also use it. There were questions about the involvement of municipalities in the SIMs. 300 municipalities joined the SIMs. The volume of apartments that is declared to be built by the SIMs is about 30,000. It's a lot of potential, and we're counting on these apartments to start construction soon. On the one hand, money for this purpose has been transferred from the government housing support fund, and on the other hand, we plan to continue to support, in line with our programmes, construction and we hope that social construction will really, as they say, come out of the hooves. There was a question about spending money from KPOs and preparing for this spending. Of course, we have a bill on spending money from KPOs on housing. This law is practically waiting for the final decision approving the CPOs by the European Commission at the moment. When we have the green light, the next day we will practically start with consultations on this law and it will be adopted in a very urgent manner. Answering a lot of questions about the tools that are currently available to support the purchase of apartments to support the increase in the size that the family takes - because sometimes families live in singles and raise children - I will remind you that tomorrow the law on guaranteed housing credit comes into force. I will also remind you that this law supports borrowers who buy their first apartment, but also supports families who raise their children on a small scale so that they can buy a bigger apartment. So here's the tool in this area. I think it is also worth commenting on something that was happening at the committee meeting, but the committee did not go into the topic that came up. Because there was such inaccurate information, even a violation of our interpretation of the provisions on rent holidays in the SIMs, in the TBS. Here, however, one of the clubs is proposing an amendment which, I think, is due to the misunderstanding and misinterpretation of the rules that we are introducing. Well, rent holidays, i.e. the settlement of participation, which the participant - someone who enters the apartment in TBS-sa, in the SIM - brought - may take place under the rules that were already implemented last year. There are two ways to settle their participation. So someone who's moving into an apartment in TBS pays this participation, she's been living there for years, this amount of participation. So far it's been impossible to settle it. It was possible to move out and withdraw this participation, followed by the next tenant who contributed. Now we're giving you a tool to settle rent vacations like this. There are two forms, one is for a fixed period, up to 15 years, at which time the rent will be reduced. There is an appropriate way of converting, if the rent is reduced during these 15 years, and after that period the rent returns back to normal levels. This applies to everyone, it can also be done by young people, but when TBS, SIM will already pay off loans to build a resource, for building an apartment, a block in which this apartment is located. There's no problem with inheriting that money. If during the 15 years the participant - the one who has the apartment - dies, this money is inherited. If he moves out during this period, the rest of the unpaid contribution is returned to him, it is settled. However, there is another option that has been introduced, I will remind you, already last year. It's nothing new in this bill. This is the option in which the total settlement of participation takes place. The moment someone retires, they can use it. It settles in full participation and rent is reduced permanently to death. If he dies, the wife or husband of that person, the spouse who lived at that time, although formally it does not even have to be a marriage, the person who lived with that person at the time of the conclusion of the contract, if he was retired, may also enter into those rights and permanently have a reduced rent. And there's a certain risk element. We don't order anyone to use this form. This is the law, not the obligation to use this form of settlement. In theory, if we wanted to accept your amendments, we would simply have to delete this possibility, but this possibility is so that people can benefit from it when it is profitable for them. You have to realize that risk. People retire at the age of 65, gentlemen, at the age of 60, ladies. The life expectancy is 73 for men and 81 for women. I hope this is going to grow, but there is a certain risk to TBS, and to SIM, and to this participant, a participant. If this person lives much longer, then for the SIM it is, you can say, some risk, because then for the entire period until the tenant dies, there will be a reduced rent due to this settlement. On the other hand, if this person dies much earlier, then the risk is for that person, because all this participation has not been settled, it has not yet settled. So the SIM bears the risk, the tenant bears the risk, but this is a voluntary form. We introduce in this law only clarification of these provisions, so that those who use this form of settlement, participation, are not deceived, do not feel deceived at the time of signing the contract. We clarify this provision and order the introduction of an appropriate information clause into the contract so that everyone is aware of what he is signing. And we can't be accused of taking away the amount of participation by introducing this clause. Nothing like that happens. If we had leaned on this at the committee meeting for a moment, perhaps it would have been explained. The representatives of those social organizations that bring together the TBS residents were with us at the Ministry, and this was explained by the department. Thank you very much, Mr. Director, for explaining this thoroughly. The matter is resolved, so this amendment of yours could, I think, be withdrawn calmly by you. Ladies and gentlemen! I don't want to prolong because it's late. I think most of the questions, practically all the questions that I've asked, I've answered. Thank you very much and I ask you to accept the bill. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u583	Thank you very much. Mrs Anna Paluch, rapporteur for the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u584	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! It's very short now. I want to thank you for your declaration of support for the project. I would remind you that the draft was adopted unanimously at the committee meeting, with no votes against and abstentions. It is a good project that facilitates and irritates funding rules. And let me remind you that the United Right Government has been introducing more and more instruments in housing policy for several years now, increasing support for local governments. Last year's law increased support to 50% or even 80% for certain projects. It is still necessary to harmonise the rules on eligibility of expenditure and the rules on support for projects in municipal construction and social construction. The number of different support instruments is increasing, so that this policy, so to speak, speed it up, make it easier. I think with a clear conscience you can support this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u585	Thank you very much. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, the draft amendment was tabled, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Infrastructure Committee in order to present a report. If I do not hear opposition, I will think that the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 9 of the agenda: Report of the Committee on Education, Science and Youth on the Government's draft law on the change of the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław (prints No 2246 and 2289). I ask Mr Władysław Kurowski to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u586	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I would like to present a report by the Committee on Education, Science and Youth, print No. 2289, on the government bill on the change of name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław, print No. 2246. Marshal of the Sejm, according to Art. Article 37 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 and Article 1 Article 40 (1) (a) and (b) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed on 11 May 2022 the above draft law to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth for first reading. The bill is designed to change the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław to the Academy of Physical Education. Polish Olympics in Wroclaw. The name of the university is to be changed from 1 October 2022. According to the law on higher education and higher education, the university is created by law and therefore the name of such university is also changed by law. The draft law was drawn up and following a proposal from the rector of the academy addressed to the Minister responsible for Higher Education and Science. The proposal was accompanied by a resolution of the Senate of the University and a resolution of the University Council which welcomed the change of name of the Academy, as well as a letter from the President of the Polish Olympic Committee of 3 September 2021 expressing support for this initiative. The new name of the Academy will, on the one hand, be an expression of appreciation for the achievements of Polish Olympics over a period of more than 100 years and honor their outstanding achievements during the Olympic Games, and on the other hand will highlight the close link between the Academy and the traditions of the Polish Olympic Movement. Ladies and gentlemen! The Committee on Education, Science and Youth, after first reading and considering this draft law at its meeting on 24 May 2022, invites the High Sejm to adopt a draft law from print no. 2246 without amendments. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u587	Thank you. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. First, Mr Sławomir Skwarek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u588	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the government draft law on changing the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław, print no. 2246. With this government presentation we give the Academy of Physical Education in Wroclaw a new name consisting in giving the name, the name of the Polish Olympians. It's hard to imagine a simpler bill at the same time as a positive message. In fact, it could be quoted as a whole. Among the six Polish public academy of physical education only this one, Wrocław, today there is no patron. The others have individual, very valuable: Józef Piłsudski, Bronisław Czech, Eugeniusz Piasecki, Jerzy Kukuczka or finally Jędrzej Śniadecki. The Academy of Physical Education in Wroclaw decided to be the patron of the Polish Olympians, those who were Poles and represented before regaining independence of the possessive state, the Polish Olympians of the 20th interwar period, those from the period of the Polish People's Republic, but also from the time of 1989, always represented Poland, their homeland under the white and red flag and with an eagle on their breasts. We are delighted to have chosen such a patron for the university. The law on higher education and science states that a public university is created by law and therefore a change of name is also made by law. The bill was designed in connection with the application of the rector of the academy of Mr. Prof. Dr. Hab. Andrzej Rokita addressed to the Minister of Education and Science. It meets all formal requirements, in accordance with the resolutions of the university senate and the university council. There is also additional support from the President of the Polish Olympic Committee, Mr Andrzej Kraśnicki. The Academy of Physical Education. Polish Olympics in Wroclaw - I will use this, I have no doubt, future name - has over 75 years of history. I don't have to say that the university not only educates, but also educates future teachers in physical education, trainers, instructors, physiotherapists, tourism and recreation. The dorms are associated with many of the former, present, and I have the conviction that the Olympics are also coming. The reference in the name to Olympic ideas will strengthen their importance in the comprehensive development of students and shaping their attitudes. I hope it's not just wishful thinking. The principle of the Olympic movement of Citius-Altius-Fortius - faster, higher, harder, let it apply to all good activities of the Academy of Physical Education to them. Polish Olympics in Wroclaw. Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will, of course, vote in favour of the bill. Thank you. [[Applause]] [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Małgorzata Gosiewska]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u589	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Michał Jaros on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u590	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! The bill is intended to change the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław, hereinafter referred to as the Academy of Physical Education. Polish Olympics in Wroclaw. The name of the university is to be changed from 1 October 2022. The Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław is an esteemed university with a 75-year-old tradition, founded in Wrocław in 1946 and since then educates graduates mainly in the field of science: medical science and health science, in the discipline of scientific science on physical culture. It is a university which has grown permanently into social and scientific tissue not only of Wrocław and Lower Silesia, but it can be said with all conviction that also of the whole Poland. Many Polish trainers, athletes, including Olympics medalists, world championships and European championships are associated with the academy. Many outstanding scientists are also associated with the academy. The university is constantly developing. Since 1966, he has had the right to doctorate and since 1990 the right to conduct habilitation cables. It develops evenly, not only scientifically, but also educationally. It opens new courses of study, cooperates with sports clubs, representatives of the economy and local and central authorities. It is sustainable and systematic development. It's not a cosmetic change, it's a change that has an important image, educational, social and aspirative dimension. The new name of the Academy will, on the one hand, be an expression of appreciation for the achievements of Polish Olympics over a period of more than 100 years and honor their excellent achievements during the Olympic Games, and on the other hand it will emphasize the close link between the Academy and the traditions of the Polish Olympic Movement. The reference in the name of the Academy to Olympic ideas will strengthen their importance in the comprehensive development of students and shaping attitudes. Giving the Academy the name of Polish Olympics will distinguish the university and strengthen its positive reception and recognition. Dear Marshal! The Academy of Physical Education in Wroclaw has completed many outstanding athletes, many outstanding trainers, including others.: Marek Pigeon - barbellist, Olympic medalist, Rafał Kubacki, Judok, Renata Mauer-Rózanska or sleeper. cyclist and legend of Polish cycling Ryszard Szurkowski, also our Olympic medalist from the last Olympics Natalia Kaczmarek. These are only one of the few, because a lot of the Olympics were graduating from this school. A lot of those who fought for the Olympics, too, and they didn't make it, were graduating from this school. This university is also of course outstanding trainers, teachers of physical education, numerous teams of coaches of various clubs not only in Lower Silesia and in Wrocław, but also throughout Poland. This is a college. with a great tradition, a college with great achievements. Therefore, I am proud to recommend, as a Member from Wrocław, a Member from Lower Silesia, also as a representative of the Civic Coalition, a change in the name of this university, because it will bring only glory not only to the university but also to the Polish sport, as well as to the Olympic movement. Dear Marshal! I recommend, on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, that the name of the university be changed to: Academy of Physical Education. Polish Olympics in Wroclaw. Happy birthday. Thank you very much and good luck for all those who will be educated at this university, and those who will represent dignified Poland at various events, especially at the Olympic Games. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u591	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk on behalf of the Lewis Club. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u592	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław is a university with more than 70 years of tradition. It began in 1946, then as a Physical Education Study at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Wrocław. Four years later, it was transformed into an independent 3-year School of Physical Education, and was granted a Master's degree in 1956. In the same year Franciszek Gąsienica Gróń won a bronze medal in a combination of Norwegian in Cortina d. Ampezzo. Less than 10 years later, this distinguished athlete completed his training course at the Academy of Physical Education in Wroclaw, becoming a member of the Olympic Academy graduates. Another outstanding Polish Olympian, Józef Zagózki, twice gold medalist in a shotgun - in Mexico in 1968 and in Munich in 1972. He graduated from the Wrocław AWF in 1975 and took part in the fourth Olympics in his life in Munich. As a graduate of AWF, he also represented Poland during the Moscow Olympics in 1980. Although the summer Olympics in Montreal did not bring a medal to Zagózki himself in 1976, five athletes associated with the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław returned to Poland with distinctions. Bronze brought with them handballers: Jerzy Klempel and Zdzisław Antczak, shooter Wiesław Gawlikowski and footballer, world-class football coach Władysław Żmuda. In turn, with silver, second in his life, the late road cyclist Ryszard Szurkowski came back. Sportsmen and athletes associated with the Wrocław Academy of Physical Education also represented Poland in the next decades. In 1980, seven took part in Tokyo and Moscow, including Jerzy Klempel, who in Moscow won the second bronze medal for Poland in handball. This group also included the first female Olympics associated with the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław, Dorota Bielska, a hockey player on the grass. After 1990, Poland represented five more Olympics and Olympians associated with the Wrocław AWF. It is worth mentioning here Katarzyna Krasowska and Urszula Włodarczyk, both representing our country in badminton and athletics respectively in three subsequent Olympics - in Barcelona in 1992, in Atlanta in 1996 and in Sydney in 2000. Urszula Włodarczyk has obtained a doctorate and works as director of the Institute of Sport - the State Research Institute. As a Polish woman and a Wrocławian, I am glad that my hometown boasts of a university, which ranks in the national rankings of physical education year after year in the top five. The university owes this to a great staff, an attractive educational offer - there are as many as 40 scientific circles at the university - and a good infrastructure that includes among others. Olympic Stadium in Wroclaw and water sports centre in Olejnica on the mountain lake. All of this allows the physical development of students to go hand in hand with mental development. High Seym! In view of the achievements of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław, giving its patronage to Polish Olympians is a natural step. The university is associated with at least 19 Poles and Poles who took part in the Olympic Games. Many of them have allowed the academy to further develop professionally and scientifically after their participation in the games. The athlete's career is usually an uneven and variable career, in which after the Olympic period the next years come, when you have to keep yourself, your family, to put your future together. Champions and sports champions often do not need much in this regard, for example. supplement pedagogical and coaching powers in order to be able to educate further generations of outstanding athletes. The Left fully supports the change of the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław to the Academy of Physical Education. Polish Olympics in Wroclaw. We believe that changing the name will highlight the prestige of this university and will remind you of its role in the history of representing Poland during the Olympics. Thank you very much and I wish you all the best to Wrocław students, graduates and employees of the Academy of Physical Education to them. Polish Olympics in Wroclaw. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u593	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Jacek Protasiewicz on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u594	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Academy of Physical Education located in a very picturesque part of Wrocław near the facilities of the beautiful sports complex, the largest in our city, around the Olympic Stadium, is a reason to be proud of the Wrocławians. It initiated its activities, like most Polish universities in Wrocław, just after the war - first as a Physical Education Study at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Wrocław, already in 1946, 4 years later it was transformed into the Higher School of Physical Education and in 1972 as a Academy of Physical Education. Since 1956, and so very early since its inception, she has been granted a Master's degree and has been entitled to a doctoral degree 10 years later, and in 1990 she was granted the right to conduct habilitation cables. Its graduates were famous Polish trainers and athletes, among others. Kazimierz Górski, Zbigniew Pietrzykowski, Józef Zagózki, Ryszard Szurkowski, Urszula Włodarczyk, Mieczysław Łopatka, Rafał Kubacki or Renata Mauer-Rózańska. Currently, the university consists of two departments, where more than 4,000 are taught. students, and their knowledge is passed on to 42 researchers. Wroclaw AWF is a university with excellent reputation, which is appreciated not only in Poland but also abroad, which illustrates 20 honorary doctorates awarded to outstanding national and foreign personalities by this university. You can't name them all here. On this occasion I would also like to point out that the university not only focuses on academic and educational activities, but also engages in the life of the local, Wrocław community. At Wroclaw's AWF, there is a third-century university, thanks to which students and university employees have taken action for cultural animation aimed at seniors in the artistic and recreational and tourist, health and sports fields. The university also hosts the Children's University Foundation organizing lectures and workshops for young people from 6 to 16. We are currently considering the application made by the university authorities, and, to be precise, his magnificence of the rector Prof. Andrzej Rokita, to the state authorities for the name of the Polish Olympians. At the Polish Coalition Club, we believe that this is a very valuable initiative, which will allow us to honour the huge effort put into self-improvement and sports competition of thousands of Polish athletes who have gained the honour of representing Polish national colours on these most important and most prestigious sports competitions, which are the Olympic Games. At this point it is worth reminding that in the history of these competitions Poles won 79 gold medals, 96 silver medals and 146 bronze medals. 28 Olympians came directly from Wroclaw, to a large extent they were associated with the Wrocław University. I appreciate the Sejm - and I express it on behalf of the Polish Coalition Club - and the word of appreciation deserves the authorities and academic community of the Wrocław Academy of Physical Education, because they do not focus solely on these Wrocław sportsmen of the Olympics, but honor and honor all those who represented the Polish Republic, our country, Polish athletes with an eagle on their breasts, under white and red colors throughout the 100-year organisation of the Olympic Games. All of them, by giving the university the title of Polish Olympians, the name of Polish Olympians, the Wrocław AWF pays tribute. We would like to thank you for your contribution and for the hours or even the days of great excitement and genuine pride in which they put us in their competitions. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Therefore, I would like to inform not only the Sejm, but also the Wroclaw AWF community that the Polish Coalition club will vote in favour of this law in its entirety. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u595	Thank you. Thank you very much. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj, on behalf of the Confederate circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u596	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We are talking about the introduction, on the basis of which there will probably be a change in the name of the Wrocław University: from the Academy of Physical Education to the Academy of Physical Education. Polish Olympics in Wroclaw. The mode of renaming is statutory, because this is required, the change will take place at the request of the rector of the university, which has been additionally supported by the resolutions of the Senate and the university council, and has also gained a positive opinion of the President of the Polish Olympic Committee, meaning, in short, we have consensus. It is a pleasure to proceed on this proposal, also in this House, because it is uncontroversial, all the votes are positive. I also express my joy here, the more that I am a Wrocławian. I would like to point out that the name is extremely appropriate, because it emphasizes the role of the sports champions of our nation, Polish sports champions. A reminder of this ethos is needed, especially today in times of regression of physical abilities, various civilizational amenities, which often lead astray in health, when it is necessary to remind about physical discipline, about consequences, about the need for regular movement, healthy nutrition. This is a big and important challenge. This challenge should be the university's mission, the further training of professional sports, trainers, physiotherapists in this spirit. Let the graduates of this school preach such a motto: it is worth measuring high and gaining gold. I wish this with all my heart to the entire scientific staff, all graduates of the Academy of Physical Education to them. Polish Olympics in Wroclaw. And by the way, I think that in the context of sports competition, taking care of sport and its beauty, we should consider a postulate here. The point is not to let it change the category... I mean. If someone loses weight or gets fat, as much weight as possible, but if someone was in the category: men, it's about not being able to compete in the category: women and vice versa. I think that would be very useful for the good of Polish and global sport in general. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u597	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch on behalf of the Poland 2050 wheel.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u598	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It would probably be better if the patrons were elected by graduates and current university students, but the Law on Higher Education and Science requires that the name of the university be changed by law. So he is happy to finally have a patron saint in Wroclaw. All other such national universities have had them for a long time. However, I wonder why the justification for this project is so cold, so gray. Sports are emotions. The Olympian is a special athlete and should be extremely, warm, colorfully treated in the Seym. There's not a word in the explanatory memorandum about over $3,000. Olympics, and that's over 3,000. history, stories of successes, dramas, as well as failures. These are over 300 Polish medalists, great, outstanding, unique, like the recently deceased Florist Egon Franke. At the Tokyo Games he won a gold medal in the individual and silver tournament on the team. I will never forget his words: Mr. Tom, even after winning the gold, first one must show respect to the rival, first one must give his hand to the poor loser. In the Seym, we forget those words. The justification of the project did not mention the magnificent Olympics such as Renata Mauer-Rózańska, Artur Olech, Mieczysław Łopatka, Ryszard Szurkowski, Paweł Rańda, Halina Aszkiełowicz-Wojno, and some of them were graduates of AWF. High Seym! About 2050 supports this project, but we are making an amendment. We propose that the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław should bear the name of Polish Olympians and Paralympians. Date of birth: Approximately Poles competed in the Special Olympics. They're sports heroes, too. Wroclaw is also associated with the Paralympic Games medalists, such as Oliwia Jabłońska or Ryszard Tomaszewski. What is more important, Wroclaw is connected with the founder of the Ludwig Guttmann Olympic Games, who started medical studies there. Later for several years this great neurosurgeon managed one of the hospitals in Wroclaw. Let us highlight the huge role played by the Paralympians in Polish sport. Athletics with disabilities, Olympians, Paralympians deserve to be named patrons of such a fine Wrocław university. To conclude, I thank Mrs Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bak for her colourful story. And I would just like to remind you that you should learn more about the history of sport. Those people you're talking about have their world games, too. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u599	Thank you, sir. Let's get to the questions. I'm closing the list of people who want to ask a question. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Mr Mirosław Suchoń, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u600	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! As my club friend Tomasz Zimoch said, well-known in sports, sports are emotions. This is something you don't forget, especially moments as big as the Olympic Games. The Olympic gold medalist Marian Kasprzyk, with whom we spoke recently, once said that if it had not been for initiatives commemorating athletes who represented Poland, perhaps there would have been nothing left of these great athletes. I think this great modesty speaks through our master. Emotions about start-ups remain in us forever, and this debate also talks about it. It is true that we focused mainly on the Wrocław thread, but ladies and gentlemen, Natalia Kot-Wala, Zbigniew Pietrzykowski, Marian Kasprzyk, Leszek Błażyński, Jerzy Pietrzyk, Stefan Hula or Adam Małysz are the great figures that created our reality. The Academy will also be their name and I am pleased as a Beskidy resident. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u601	Thank you, sir. Mr Tomasz Zimoch, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u602	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! I am speaking to the rapporteur because there is no one... Does the rapporteur know if such information has been received from the university authorities, from the director of Prof. Rokita, and then after the name of the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław? What's the program? The point is that Polish Olympians should not be paper patrons, but they would actually be an example to learners studying there perhaps future masters, and that the Sejm would remember that it was not only a choice, a vote, and that such a program would be created later. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u603	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u604	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today is a beautiful day for Polish Olympics, for the development of the ideas of Polish Olympics who performed at the Olympic Games, representing our homeland since 1924, because then we won silver and brown medals. Thanks to Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, we have learned about a wonderful history and wonderful athletes, who are graduates of AWF in Wrocław, starting with Franciszek Gąsienica-Gronia, a bronze medalist from 1956, through the mentioned Józef Zagózki, Jerzy Klempel, Ryszard Szurkowski and all others who really created such an excellent history of Polish sport, that every sports enthusiast, everyone who knows sports... These are the names that (the bell) created the Polish sport. Those are the names we're all proud of. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u605	Thank you, sir. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that we are here on questions, not statements. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u606	Dear Marshal! High Seym! It's actually a special day. To 90 educational establishments: primary schools, high schools, training centres, which bear the name of Polish Olympians, will be joined by the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław. It will probably be the first university in Poland to bear the name of Polish Olympians. As regards the pantheon of these exchanged Polish Olympics, it is probably necessary to mention the first lady of Polish sport Iren Szewińska, who won seven Olympic medals and represented Poland not only at international arenas, but also at the International Olympic Committee. I hope that tomorrow we will take this decision unanimously, and on Saturday at the Olympic Picnic in Warsaw as head of the Committee for Cooperation with the Olympics of the Polish Olympic Committee (The Bell) I will be able to communicate this. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u607	Thank you. No questions asked. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u608	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The Academy of Physical Education in Wroclaw 70 years after its foundation finally receives the name of Polish Olympians. Very good. But on the occasion of such an important holiday, which is giving the name of a university, it would be worth thinking about getting some extra funds from the ministry to go to that university. And the question is: Is there any chance that this university in Wrocław will receive any special funding for development? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u609	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Tracz, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u610	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław is a 75-year-old university. Polish trainers and athletes, including Olympics medalists, world championships and European championships, are associated with the academy. Therefore, as a Member of Wrocław, I am very pleased that under this law it will gain the name of Polish Olympians. However, on the occasion, I would like to bring up a very important issue for thousands of Wrocławians and Wroclaw women, the inhabitants of the Great Island and the whole city. It is about the ongoing sale of historic areas of the Olympic stadium complex. AWF sells more plots to private investors and developers who have no historical and green character of the site. There was a scandal with the construction of a private dorm in the pool area - halted. Now we have the issue of the athletic stadium. I would like to appeal to the university authorities (the bell): let us protect the Olympic stadium. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u611	Thank you. Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u612	God bless the Olympics, sportsmen, academic youth who specializes in this. Of course, it does not stop me laughing that the change in the name of the university is decided at this level that it is the government that submits, the High House must approve. Well, if that's the case, it's not a question, it's a suggestion - a suggestion directed towards the Wrocław dorms. You can do something bigger with that name. In Wroclaw, in this city, which does everything to avoid being a Polish city, everything is done to be the prime minister of the Euro-Circhov next transformation of the system, you can make a piece of Poland's history at your university, because the Olympics are also victims and Auschwitz, and Katynia, Major Hubal-Dobrzański (The Bell) was a reserve player in the frame, I can't remember which one, the Olympics.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u613	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u614	So what's important is that they're Polish Olympians...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u615	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u616	...not any of them at all or...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u617	Mr President, time is up. Thank you very much. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition. [[Your time for happiness is passing by.]] You've been gone a long time. [[You're getting off the stage.]] You've been gone a long time. [[Applause]] You're welcome, sir. Mr Piotr Boris.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u618	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! It's a time of pride for all the Lower Silesians, inhabitants of Wrocław. It's a symbolic moment. In fact, the Academy of Physical Education in Wrocław is the only one of the academy of physical education in Poland, which has no name. I will remind you: Gdansk - the university. Jadrzej Śniadeckiego, Warsaw - im. Marshal Józef Piłsudski, Poznań - academy im. Eugeniusz Piasecki, etc., etc. I'd just like to make a suggestion, perhaps, about the name. The proposed name: Academy of Physical Education. Polish Olympians in Wroclaw suggest in the sense that it can only be about the Olympians from Wroclaw. Let's think about the name: Academy of Physical Education in Wroclaw im. Polish Olympics. I'm only giving it as a (Bingle) element for discussion. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u619	Thank you, sir. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. Mr Wojciech Murdzek, Minister of State at the Ministry of Education and Science, will answer the questions. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u620	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In fact, the question was one and there is one amendment. Therefore, all I can do is say hello here to the rector I spoke to, and I've already reported to him after the committee's work unambiguously and fully support everyone here, regardless of club affiliation, for this idea. The arguments, changed in various ways, are quoted. Therefore, as regards the amendment, I would like to point out that Mr Tomasz Zimoch started his statement by saying that it is a pity that we decide here for the university. They should have students and universities, and the amendment is kind of a denial, because of course she's... At least I don't know anything about any agreement with the university on this amendment. This does not mean that the initiative to add the Paralympians is not beautiful, noble and legitimate, but is opposed to respecting the will of universities, and this will has been created for a long time, resulted in positive resolutions of the Senate, council, support of the Olympic Committee, but, of course, the amendment has been tabled. It's just to be reasonable to respect the work done by the university. Of course, I am personally pleased, because even today's discussion, the in-depth statements referring to the names of the Olympians, to history, show that the beginning of this process is already a function of bringing people closer to them - because the Olympians are concrete people with their history, with their achievements - so that today, those who are studying there, who are working there, continue to serve in this way, setting some ambitious directions for activity, activities. So it's only right to wish it was successful. Of course, we respond to the financial needs of the university. I think that the example of the recent opening of the Olympic stadium, such for the needs of the university, but athletic, in the university dimension, so as not to confuse with some macroscale, is also valuable and has also received support and self-government, and of course the ministry. But I will also add that the university behaves very pro-socially in this case, because this stadium is open, it is possible to use it according to the needs of young people, residents of Wrocław, of course, in taking care of non-violent cooperation with the needs of the university. So that these specific reactions are also and contact with the university is very good. The whole community should be congratulated, and I believe that the legislative process will continue to be positive, as I am convinced. Thank you for all the votes in support. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u621	Thank you very much, Minister. The rapporteur of the committee, Mr Władysław Kurowski, also asks for the floor. Mr. Speaker! I'm asking you so briefly, because it was actually just one question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u622	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! The bill in its content is very short, but very important in its message. I would like to see all the wishes that have fallen out of this room today from all the clubs become a reality for the academic community itself. I wish you that, too. Thank you to all the clubs for having this name so warm. I am convinced that this is what Mr Zimoch said, that the university should now do more than that. I am convinced that today's law, which we are investigating, is not only a change of name, a longer name, a name, but also a big commitment for the academic community itself. I think that this commitment will be fulfilled by the content which the Olympics in their name adopted by the High House will carry on this environment. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u623	Thank you very much, sir. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Education, Science and Youth in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the report of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Senior Policy on the Government's draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual payment for pensioners (prints No 2270, 2270-A and 2292). I kindly ask Mrs Bożena Boriss-Raccoon to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u624	Thank you very much. Dear Marshal! High Seym! Dear Minister, I present a report by the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Senior Policy on the Government's draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual financial provision for pensioners, prints 2270 and 2270-A. The Sejm at its 55th meeting on 25 May 2022, as provided for in Article. 39 (1) (a) 2 of the Rules of Procedure of the Sejm, addressed the above draft law together with the self-correction to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Senior Policy for consideration. Both committees today, i.e. On 25 May, after considering the above draft, they ask the High Sejm to adopt the report 2292. The draft law concerns the payment of another annual cash benefit, so-called. 14th pension. This solution will be applied, among others. for pensions in the general scheme, farmers, uniformed services, bridge pensions, benefits and benefits, social pensions, teachers' compensation benefits, parental supplementary benefits and pensions of war and military invalids. In addition, I would like to remind you, or actually the High Sejm, that both joint committees, in accordance with Article. Article 43 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 3 The Rules of Procedure of the Sejm shall, at the request of the applicant, submit five minority applications, in accordance with print No 2292, requesting a total vote on proposals from 1 to 3 and 4 and 5 together and the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u625	Thank you very much, Member. The Sejm agreed that in the discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the clubs and three-minute statements on behalf of the circles. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mrs Lidia Burzyńska to the High House.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u626	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I would like to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual payment for pensioners and pensioners, seym prints No 2270 and 2270-A. The draft law on an additional annual financial contribution to pensioners and pensioners in 2022 is further evidence that the current government is carrying out announcements that meet the expectations of most pensioners, providing financial support that is particularly important for low pension beneficiaries. This solution will be applied to pensions in the general scheme - farmers, uniformed services, bridge pensions, pre-retirement benefits, social pensions, teachers' compensation benefits, parental supplementary benefits, the provision of money to civilian and blind victims of war activities, and pensions for war and military invalids. The Law and Justice Government pays particular attention to seniors who are a beautiful part of the family, through steps-by-step building of the senior support system, leading an effective long-term social policy. And so: we have restored the earlier retirement age extended by the Civic Platform and the Polish People's Party, we systematically increase pension benefits, we make sure that they are properly valued, we have introduced the guaranteed thirteenth pension for our seniors, and another year in a row we provide an additional pension, which is the fourteenth pension. For the social policy of the State, it is important to protect senior citizens from poverty and social exclusion, and the measures taken by the government are therefore aimed at improving the financial situation of pensioners and pensioners, including in particular those benefiting from low pensions. Due to the armed conflict in Ukraine, prices of consumer goods and services have increased. It affected all Polish citizens, but most people feel it is the lowest people, including pensioners and pensioners. For this reason, we want to relieve seniors and help them to cope with inflation, which is harder for them to cope with than active groups, and therefore we propose that the additional pension, which is the 14th pension, should be paid earlier than before. The Government of Law and Justice is the first government not only to promise, but above all to implement systemic solutions that support this group in need of specific financial support. We want Polish seniors not to feel alone and leave themselves alone. Our predecessors spent PLN 3.5 billion a year on seniors - speaking now how much they cared - and we only spend PLN 43 billion in support of seniors in 2022. Let these two amounts, my dear High Izbo, be a figurative example of real concern for seniors. The Law and Justice Club supports the bill and will vote in favour of it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u627	Thank you, Member. Mrs Joanna Frydrych on behalf of the Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u628	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Dear Minister, On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, the Civic Coalition presents the position of the club on the committee's report on the government draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual financial provision for pensioners. This draft law concerns the payment of another additional annual cash benefit. The rules for the payment of the 14th pension are identical to those of last year. Retirement benefits of the lowest pension will be paid by pensioners whose benefits do not exceed PLN 2900 gross. During the work of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, the Civic Coalition tabled an amendment in this regard, thus removing the injustice that seniors could have suffered, who receive benefits above the threshold set by the PiS Government. Unfortunately, the amendment was rejected. What do you say to those seniors who don't get the so-called. The 14th pension? Are you going to tell them that their cost, their increase in electricity and gas bills and their drugs aren't touching? I stress that poverty among seniors in Poland is growing all the time. The yeast you gave to Poles ruins the home budgets, as well as the oldest ones. And you say you care about seniors? This help is illusory. You put a patch on the wound instead of predicting and proposing system solutions. I will stress once again today that, under the Civic Platform, pensioners gained more than price increases. The valorisation of pensions at a time when prices of goods and services were falling, for those with the lowest benefits, was a quota and a percentage. You've been in charge for seven years. Poverty is growing. It's the result of your governments. Instead of taking responsibility for your own decisions, you're looking for the guilty everywhere, just not at your own place. In January this year, Donald Tusk, President of the Civic Platform, told you what needs to be done. [[Voice from the room: Thank you very much, we are not interested.]] He proposed a second September benefit valorization when inflation would exceed 5%. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[Quiet!]] Why don't you want a system solution, fair, predictable, certain, transparent and favorable to seniors? September's valorization is exactly what it is. For example: Senior Retirement in the amount of 2 000. zł... [[Voice from the hall: You've raised your age.]] [[Applause]] [[Quiet!]] ...could gain by 341 PLN more than you proposed, and by 140 PLN would increase the basis for its provision for future valorization. Don't rob seniors because they deserve respect and truth. [[Voice from the room: Exactly.]] At today's committee meeting, the Civic Coalition tabled an amendment on the source of funding for the 14th pension. You plan to finance it with the Solidarity Fund, which was created for people with disabilities. You're stealing from the weakest. The 14th pension should be financed from the Social Insurance Fund, according to its characteristics. During today's committee meeting, I asked the Minister how much the Solidarity Fund lent money from the Demographic Reserve Fund and how much money the Demographic Reserve Fund gave up to the Solidarity Fund. The Minister spoke about the repayment schedule in 2023 and 2026. And I am now asking the Minister about the amounts: 2019. - over PLN 8736 million, 2020. - over PLN 11 505 million. That's what the Solidarity Fund borrowed from the Demographic Reserve Fund? Minister, what happened to those 8736 million PLN in 2021? Have they been decommissioned? Is it true that the Solidarity Fund has only returned 732 thousand to the Demographic Reserve Fund. Evil? And don't steal from future pensioners. They won't vote for you anymore, but they also want to live and get a decent pension. Don't make them poor in the future. It will be your responsibility. In addition, the 14th pension should be financed by the Social Insurance Fund, because the proceeds to the Social Insurance Fund are higher than expected in the financial plan of the FSO due to the increase in salaries. Also due to higher revenues to the Social Insurance Fund, the second valorisation should take place. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Civic Coalition Parliamentary Club supports this bill and requests support for minority requests from our club. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u629	Thank you, Member. The position of the Left Club will be presented to Mr Robert Obaz. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u630	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the pleasure of presenting my position on behalf of the Left Club regarding the Government's draft law on the next in 2022 additional annual payment for pensioners and pensioners. When we were sitting on the committee, two minority requests were received. There were five of them, but they should be voted on together as regards the first three proposals, and together as regards the fourth and fifth proposals. With regard to the first case, i.e. the minority proposal for funding the 14th pension, taking into account the state budget and the visibility of this payment, we are, of course, in favour. In the second case, where mandatoryly everyone would get a 14th pension in the amount of PLN 1300 with a small hook, everyone, no matter how much they earn, we think that the mechanism of the zloty over a certain amount is definitely better. Abstracting from who is more or less guilty, whether it is Tusk's fault or whether it is Morawiecki's fault, you should look for system solutions. The point is, it wasn't the pensioners and the retirees who led to this inflation. It is really the late reactions of President Glapiński that led us to the place where we are today, and all the actions we are doing today are a little fire-extinguishing. The left was the only one - because it was the only one that had been affected in this respect in the context of the Safer Senior Programme presented by the Left - submitted a draft law on the valorisation of pensions. We did it on April 20th and we believe that this solution, the second valorization, should be introduced as a system issue. In the case of inflation which exceeds 5%, 7% or 10% - we do not know what it will be like next year - such a solution should be put in place so that pensioners have a sense of security. In fact, it is one of the weakest social groups and the most indebted, because for more than PLN 7.5 billion, so are the indebted pensioners. But apart from that, because the Left is not just a piece, we have presented a comprehensive solution. A lot of seniors, seniors can't afford to buy drugs either. 8% prescriptions are not implemented at all because people who appear in pharmacies are unable to pay for these drugs. That's why we also offered drugs for 5 zlotys. This solution, which will not charge the budget - today it is a solution related to the refinancing of medicines and the costs we bear, is actually used in Germany, Denmark or the UK, where a lump sum fee is paid for medicines - it will bring more benefits than it is today. We also offered a pension. This is the solution in most European countries, e.g. in Estonia, the Czech Republic, Denmark or Germany. This widow's pension is very important. If one person who postpones the ZUS for many years receives a pension - and we had such a system that these men had a much higher pension - it would be good if, in the event of her early departure from this world, some of her ZUS contributions went to another person, to the wife. And it's very important that we forget, too. Mr. President, you promised internship pensions. It's such an important thing for all those who worked and paid their contributions to the ZUS for 35, 40 or 45 years. They're waiting today. It was promised by Solidarity, promised by the President. All billing projects, minimum four, lie down, are prepared. [[♪ The bell ♪]] We look forward to considering one of the laws at the committee's meeting, so we very much call for internship pensions to enter the committee's deliberations. And this project that we are working on today, the Left will support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u631	Thank you, sir. Ms Bożena Ironowska will present the position of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u632	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! The Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party is for pensioners and all citizens in our country to live better so that people after many years of work have a decent pension so that they do not have to choose whether to buy food, medicines or pay for gas, because today pensioners face such a choice. I'm talking to retired people, and they're clearly saying they're afraid they're gonna have enough for their lives. By the power of the law that we are proceeding today, another additional annual cash benefit will be granted to eligible persons in 2022. It will be payable in full to persons for whom the amount of the basic benefit does not exceed PLN 2900 prior to the deduction. If it exceeds, the gold mechanism will be used for the zloty. The 14th pension will be paid at the rate of the lowest pension in force from 1 March 2022. The draft law was passed to Parliament by the government without any inter-ministerial arrangements, as I mentioned, or public consultation. There's no trace of him on the legislative center's website either. The criteria adopted by the government raise doubts about the payment of this benefit to both lawyers and citizens. I have a question for the government: Why should the only criterion for entitlement to an additional benefit be the amount of the pension received? I very much regret that the amendment that was tabled at today's committee meeting has fallen. This raises legitimate concerns for a large proportion of pensioners. Many pensioners believe that this is an unfair solution. Once again, the 14th pension will be financed by the Solidarity Fund, which we know should be the weakest and the poorest. He should not serve that purpose. The criterion adopted by the government in this solution is unfair and hurtful to a large proportion of pensioners who worked their entire lives, paid their contributions, and today, if their pension exceeds PLN 2900, they will get less. Recently, when we have crazy inflation, neither the thirteenth nor the fourteenth pension will cover the costs and oversized expenses incurred by seniors, pensioners, and society as a whole. When I talk to them, I hear they have to give up their private visits to doctors, with some services, with the purchase of various goods, because the rent for apartments and electricity consumes the entire pension. Once again, I will remind you that the proposal of the Polish People's Party, which is included in our electoral programme, which PiS has entered into the Polish Government, but which is unfortunately not fully implemented, is a pension without tax. Yeah, the retirees are waiting for that. Many times in conversations I hear: I do not need additional support in the amount of 1300 PLN twice a year, but let the government not make me pay taxes on my pension. That'll be 12 times 1,300 zlotys. It will be a system solution and fair for everyone. As a coalition of Poland - Polish People's Party we are in favour of paying 13th, 14th and even 15th pension. The State, the legislator, should support the less affluent, but must apply objective criteria rather than those which the Social Security Office can conveniently determine for itself. I would remind you to implement our whole project: a pension without tax, which is fair for all pensioners. And one more request and appeal: finally take care of your internship pension. People are waiting for this. Why are these jobs stuck? Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland - Polish People's Party will support this bill because we know that today every amount is needed by pensioners. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u633	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Krzysztof Tuduj will speak on behalf of the Confederation's circle.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u634	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! We're talking about the 14th retirement in 2022, again, because last year we talked about it too. There will be no surprises here because the Confederation has already requested that this project be rejected at first reading. Of course, the proposal is gone, apart from the Confederation, the entire High House is behind this project. Why the money for this 14th retirement gift? Did Prime Minister Morawiecki tell his colleagues to share their profits, as he recently suggested to the Norwegians? No. Or did Minister Sasin make savings in the Treasury companies? No. Or did Minister Błaszczak renegotiate the price for abrams? Well, since we're so far ahead, maybe it'd be cost-effective if they'd missed us a little bit for the abrams, maybe just right for the retirees. No. It'll just be tax money collected from everyone, including pensioners. With all due respect to seniors, such a way of government is to antagonize society, take everyone away, give to the chosen, antagonize the national community, which also consists of, apart from seniors, people of working age, young people, children. They have needs, too. This distribution, in a strange way, coincides largely with the electorate of the ruling party. Coincidence? Here you have to think about whether it's just buying votes, not really caring about seniors. Real concern is about the issues that have already been raised here. Queues to specialist doctors: What have you done here to make pensioners easier and faster? But first of all: How do you value this ordinary monthly pension to prices, to the food prices that are really rising at this point - and Minister Kowalczyk doesn't care too much about it and says that it doesn't hurt - the prices of medicines, medicines, energy prices? There's really no way to patch this 14th pension. It's an illusion, you just give a feeling, a false sense of repairing something, and you can't do that. Take care to make this monthly retirement worth living. That's how you reform it while you're still in charge, hopefully soon. Thank you for your attention. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u635	Mr Mirosław Suchoń on behalf of the Polska 2050 wheel. There it is, Mr... It's a pleasure for you, it's an entrance to the O.R. Good. Thank you very much. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u636	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, We count how much he loses in 13 and 14 in 2022. The lowest pension at 20 years' work is PLN 1388,44. 12% inflation consumes 144% salaries. Minimum thirteen and... [[How much did you pay?]] ...the minimum 14 is a total amount of PLN 2600. But he's losing... [[Zero thirteen, zero fourteen.]] ...that 144% He's got 50% left. How long does he have? 700 PLN, 600 PLN. That means he's getting 50 zlotys a month. How will he pay a health contribution of 9% That's gonna have to pay for it. You can't fight inflation. How was 2012? When the lowest pension - 78 PLN - was valued (the bell), it gained 900 PLN per year. And today... [[Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off, applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u637	Thank you, Member. Mrs Claudia Jachira, Civic Coalition. [[Your marshal, they're losing their pensioners. Where are you?]] Scream again, please. [[Voice from the room: You have more.]] Madame, time is running out.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u638	Mr Kaczyński, Chairman of the Security Committee. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! What do you call a government that robs its own pensioners? I mean, you guys are gonna have to pay someone to pay for all this stuff that's been blown up. Retired people are dead because young people can still change jobs, make money, save themselves, and retired people can't, no, no. They've worked their whole lives for their retirement, which is now being devoured by inflation. They're vaporizing their savings because you can't manage, you're just cashing it out without even knowing it. Now you're giving them 14 pensions, but who's gonna pay for it? [[This isn't the theatre, Mrs. Sejm.]] Retired people are here. 11 billion, that's how you owe future generations. It's not really a social benefit, it's just populism. That's why I'm against it. Everyone's outraged to hear that an older person was the victim of a grandson fraud. But what do you call the business you're doing? The president? [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u639	Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. You're welcome. [[Voice from the room: What about you?]] [[Yeah, valorization 3.80.]] Ladies and gentlemen, please stop this kind of discussion in the benches. You're welcome, sir.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u640	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Messengers and Members! I suggest we don't get caught up in Kurski's television propaganda. This is not a 14th pension, that is a one-off pension allowance, an allowance that has a certain value and is addressed to a specific group of people. Talking about the 14th means, first of all, systematicity, and there is no systematicity, because it is introduced into the legal system every year. Secondly, it doesn't apply to all of them. I would like to ask the Minister for the third time today, because he has not answered me twice when the government prepares its position on internship pensions. Is it so difficult to put forward an appropriate position to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs? [[Not this bill, sir.]] I had the chance to meet the Minister and I know him with solidity. I'm counting on that answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u641	Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u642	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Seniors ask very often, that's why I ask that question. This additional benefit will be paid in August, September or October? If you could give me a specific month, I'd appreciate it. Thank you very much. [[It's in the bill in August.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u643	Thank you, sir. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u644	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! The Prime Minister at a special press conference said: We will pay the witness in August. The Minister says the same thing. Today we find out that it will not be in August. But maybe I'll expand. I will ask who will make this payment, because just now all Members have been informed that the Union's Alternative in the ZUS is starting preparations for the strike. The strike is planned before vacation, it will apply to the whole country, it will be unlimited. At the same time, the Union Alternative writes to us that it maintains all demands related to wage claims in the Social Insurance Institution at the head. Two other demands have now also come to light: the immediate return to work of the leader of Ms Ilona Garczyńska and the resignation of the President of the Social Security Office. Therefore, two questions to the Minister and I would like a written reply. When will the payment be made and who will make this payment in connection with this position of the Union Alternative? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u645	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Braun, near the Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u646	Minister Venerable! In time saved, could you estimate the savings you have made by sending to that world more pensioners and pensioners through the blockade of the hospital system in Poland, through murder directives to stop treatment, medical services, non-save human life, oncology, collapse, failure? For two years, you've caused confusion in this area that we haven't recovered from. Question: "How many pensioners do you find in the 200,000 category?" excess deaths, and what savings for the state in which a united right-wing lie holds (the bell)?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u647	Ms Anna Wojciechowska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u648	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! I'll start right away with the question. Isn't it possible to raise the lowest pensions for this extra salary and end this human mommy? Will an additional benefit be paid this year or not? It wasn't supposed to be in January, and now there's money. Valorisation is 7%. and inflation 12%. Prices rise, heating by 100-200%, energy - by 100% But it's not enough to live. Poverty is growing. Retirement must make a choice: food or medicine, pay rent or energy. There were supposed to be free medications - there isn't. [[What do you mean, it's gone? They're a lot. Lies!]] It's supposed to be health care - there isn't. What happens if there's no second valorization? Live or die? The statistics of suicide among seniors are rising, and what will the government say about these rising prices? And one more thing. It's not PiS money, it's the money of all taxpayers, including those pensioners, because they also pay taxes. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u649	Mr Robert Obaz, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u650	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Why don't we cool off our emotions, 'cause this is actually the money that we're all making up for. They are very, very important for pensioners and pensioners. [[Every government has that kind of money.]] I have a question for the Minister. Tomorrow's the day. We do. I've got a lot left alone and now they're facing a dilemma of buying fuel for the winter. The fuel definitely, definitely expensive. Do you think such a one-time benefit will fill this gap? To a ton of eco peas or pellets you have to pay in relation to last year, in relation to those prices that were last year, at least 1500 PLN, because that's what it looks like today. That's one benefit not even for a whole ton. For one season you need about 3 tons. What do you tell these families? Isn't it better to put in place system solutions (the Bell) that will give stability and security of benefits? Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u651	Thank you very much. Mrs Monica Falej, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u652	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Inflation is now at 12% . This means that every pensioner and every pensioner will lose a year and a half of their pension. This means that one hand PiS gives and the other hand takes money from pensioners, giving them thirteen or fourteen pensions. It doesn't give much, actually, when it comes to this group. Therefore, system solutions are extremely important here. The Left Club proposed a law in April, which gives an advantage to pensions, which could be introduced as early as 1 September this year. My question is: Is there any chance of really introducing systemic solutions that give real opportunities and real help to pensioners? Thank you kindly. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u653	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u654	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! We know what it's like. At current high prices of goods and services, pensioners watch every dollar and wonder how they can save money, whether it's more important to pay for gas and electricity, whether it's possible to buy drugs at the pharmacy, or pay rent for the apartment, or maybe buy butter instead of the cheapest margarine. With current inflation of 12% The additional benefits that we have also discussed today, 13 and 14, are disappearing because of the lack of effective government intervention. Ladies and gentlemen, in the Sejm there is a law on the second valorization of pensions, which should take place on 1 September 2022. There is no other law in the Seym. There's only the one that the Left made. When do we start working on it? It is worth to clarify here that the lowest benefit is currently 1,200 PLN per hand, and according to this law, according to this project would increase by about 180 PLN. [[♪ The bell ♪]] This is a real and systemic aid for Polish pensioners.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u655	Thank you. Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u656	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Add: if we are talking about 14 pensions, then, Minister, let's be precise and say that only those who take the lowest pension get it, because others can be said to have an allowance, Minister. The point is to be precise. I will return to my question from the first part of the discussion, Minister. I'm talking about dignity. Maybe today it's worth thinking about how these people don't have to pay $3,000. for a ton of coal. Because a ton of coal costs those getting the lowest, the weakest money almost as much as the pension collected for 2.5 months. Today it is worth thinking about what to do so that he has cheaper electricity, so that he has cheaper energy and cheaper heat, otherwise he will only warm up with one heater. Minister, it's worth thinking about dignity, because you'll also be retired someday. I would like and wish that you could live a decently retired life. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u657	Thank you, sir. Mr Piotr Boris, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u658	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! This benefit, 14th retirement is nothing more than mere charity. Both 13th and 14th pensions are actually the result of your incompetence to compensate for inflation. Precisely inflation takes over 13th and 14th pensions. What does that mean? This means that today the pensioner is lost in relation to the previous year, among others. at 13 and 14 a.m. pension. There are no systems, no reasonable valorization, no allowance for inflation. It's all gone because you've adopted exactly the method in which a pensioner has the conviction that it's all up to you. It's the system that should make the retirees safe and live a decent life, and it just doesn't exist. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u659	Thank you. Mr Krzysztof Gawkowski, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u660	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Pensioning is one of the most important problems that the Law and Justice Government has not dealt with since the beginning of its rule. There are no systemic solutions, no ability to see the entire large pension stock and actually a few times to throw money away, like political bribery before the elections. This is not a solution that would give you a sense of responsibility and social justice. The left has proposed a number of laws that lie in the seym freezer. Just take them out, convert them and bring them to a situation where seniors, at least a large part of them, stop thinking about how to survive from the first day of the month to the last day of the month. Responsibility, work and finding good solutions, not a situation where pensioners don't know how to live. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u661	Thank you. Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, club Lewis.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u662	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! It's clear. Left wants security for Polish seniors, for Polish grandmothers, for Polish grandparents, mothers and fathers. That's why we put together a package in the Sejm to set up a Secure Seniority. The second valorization of the pension - the law of the Left in the Seym awaits the procession. The higher widow's pension, or help for pensioners after the loss of their spouse - the law of the Left in the Sejm is waiting for the procession. Medications for 5 zlotys, because health isn't luxury, it's basic. The Left Act in the Seym is waiting for the procession. Ladies and gentlemen! How much longer do you make these laws wait? How much longer do you make Polish pensioners wait? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u663	Thank you, Member. Mr Tomasz Trela, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u664	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! 9 billion PLN surplus after 4 months. 21 billion PLN higher revenues after 4 months. Not because Prime Minister Morawiecki makes effective and good decisions, just because you have allowed it to be 12, 13 percent inflation. It's an extra benefit, 13th and 14th pensions, as you call them-- it's okay, fine. It's always an addition to those modest retirement wallets. The question to the Minister is: When will you propose systemic, long-term solutions, so that the Polish pensioner can plan his future expenses, not make decisions, whether to buy a prescription in a given month, pay rent in the second month and go shopping in the third month and buy himself a decent dinner? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u665	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u666	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, The Law and Justice Government has been saying that improving the living conditions of seniors has been a priority for him for six years. In the meantime, poverty among seniors is growing rapidly today. The dramatic rise in prices, the cost of living increases the scale of poverty in general, including energy poverty, and seniors are increasingly faced with choice whether to buy drugs, food, coal, or sleep in a warm house or eat a warm meal. Nearly 13% of inflation consumes two pensions. Therefore, systemic changes and quarterly valorization should be implemented today. Once a quarter, Minister, at such galloping prices, pensions should be valued. What are you doing? You give the 13th, 14th pension, pretending to do something extra...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u667	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u668	...something that's not your responsibility. No, your duty is...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u669	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u670	...systematic valorization. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u671	Mrs Joanna Borowiak, Law and Justice. Come on in, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u672	Thank you very much. Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! It's really hard to listen to those opposition Members from the Seym Speaker and it's hard not to wipe your eyes out of wonder when you hear such words. When you were in power, you couldn't even create a proper program... [[Paulin Hennig-Kloska: I was not in charge.]] ...for families and seniors. I'll remind you. The Senior - Wigor programme left 99 senior houses behind. Today, thanks to the Senior+ programme, there are over 1000 of them. You couldn't find the money for nothing. We remember the motto of your governments: Money is gone and there will be no money. You left behind benefits such as starvation pensions, little more than 800 zlotys. Today it is over 1,300 PLN. Several golden benefits of pensions, increased retirement age for women and men. I've got some advice for you, opposition, give up teaching and giving questionable advice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u673	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u674	I want you to come up with a version, too, because in the amok of criticism...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u675	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u676	... You're denying yourself. We create...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u677	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u678	...system support and support seniors. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u679	Thank you very much, Member. Mrs Urszula Rusecka, Law and Justice. Come on in.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u680	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Maybe we could believe that concern for seniors of dear opposition if we didn't know how you ruled. You're completely unbelievable, because there's only so much you're talking about system solutions. The only systemic solution under the Civic Platform was to raise the retirement age. All seniors, on the other hand, remember how they had to buy a notebook for your governments. I'm just gonna talk about your credibility. The 2011 Platform promises in the programming document, go ahead. Mr Donald Tusk, who talks a lot about seniors and does not do much: We will spend 10 million in 2012 on activating seniors, 85 million in 2013, 110 million in 2014. And how much did he spend? 40 million. That's your credibility. And one more thing. Remember Thursdays for senior Bartos Arłukowicz? [[♪ The bell ♪]] Remember. You're completely unbelievable and pathetic. And hypocrites. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u681	Thank you. Mrs Lidia Burzyńska, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u682	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that the seniors who surround us all, regardless of the political option, deserve respect. They deserve a debate, but a debate that is substantive, and not a political huck exclusively containing such a theory: The more I point out that the government of law and justice is doing wrong, the better it will be for you politically. Ladies and gentlemen! You're talking about propaganda. In the mouth of the opposition, it's actually a mockery and disrespect for seniors. I also heard from this speaker that the government is stealing from pensioners. You people, if you believe that, I'm just concerned about how you make the facts. And the facts are as follows. [[And the health contribution 9%?]] Retirement age reduction, 13th pension (the bell), 14th pension, 75+ that I have 4+, the valorization of pensions and pensions.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u683	Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u684	Ladies and gentlemen, facts.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u685	Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u686	The ability to read. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u687	Mr Sylvester Tulaev, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u688	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! When we took over the government in 2015, the lowest pension was PLN 880. Today, the lowest pension is PLN 1338. As far as possible, we restore dignity to the elderly. We restore dignity to seniors. [[How much butter did it cost? How many today?]] Today, from this speaker, the Civic Platform Member calls the handover of nearly PLN 12 billion to Polish pensioners. [[The inflation eats it.]] It is called the charity transfer to each pensioner of the amount of PLN 1338 gross. [[Your inflation eats it.]] [[Voice from the room: What's ours? Did you forget about the COVID, about the war?]] Calling it charity is just insolence. Today, this support is important. Today we show that these are not the times of the Civic Platform, when the valorization was several zlotys. Today we are trying as far as possible to support the budget, restore dignity through 13 pensions, 14 pensions (the Bell), through other government programs. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u689	Thank you very much. Mr Janusz Cichoń, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u690	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! Let's call things by name. I have a specific question for the Minister: How much is 100,000 worth today? PLN on OFE, taking into account the average rate of return, and the same 100,000. from 2014 valorized on a sub-account in the ZUS? [[And what inflation did you have? Cumulated - 6%.]] So what's the benefit to today's pensioner of the change we've made? In addition, I have another question: How much did this move save the state budget, given that these 100,000. You'd have to keep rolling in debt to the state budget, wouldn't you? Let's call things by name and stop lying and cheating. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u691	Thank you, sir. Małgorzata Chmiel, Civic Coalition, last question. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u692	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! This project is a fraud against pensioners. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[You'd really be ashamed.]] There should be a benefit of retirement due to inflation, not some alms, thirteens, fourteens. With an average pension, about 2,000. PLN pension valorization would amount to approx. 1600 PLN, and the 14th would amount to 1300 PLN. Apart from that, under the Minimum Compensation Act, if inflation is higher than 5% On a yearly basis, this valorization should be done twice... [[The tax-free amount is still there.]] ...which means there's a power fraud here, too. The poverty rate of pensioners in recent years has been increasing considerably, and they really deserve respect. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u693	The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy of Minister Stanisław Swed to respond. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u694	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! In accordance with the Member's request, let us call things by name. There's a gap between what the law and justice government is doing for seniors and what you were doing as predecessors. [[Applause]] We've talked about these numbers before. If we're talking... [[I ask you to answer my questions in writing, Minister.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u695	Mr President, there was a time for you to speak. Calm down. [[But behave yourself, Marshal.]] And what do you do now... Go back to your seat and don't yell. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] [[You were so screaming.]] And you, as always. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: If we want to talk about the valorization of pensions and pensions, we need to know what this valorization is all about. I think that the Platform Members, the Lefts, have at least a minimal idea of what valorisation means. I thank Mr Tomaszewski because I think he is the only one on this side of the room who knows what he is talking about. What we're talking about, valorization, is a solution that functions in the pension system as a system. The supplement we propose is not an advantage. This is an extra benefit that we give to pensioners. It's not in the pension system, it's in the 13th pension system, it's in the 14th pension system. [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] Ladies and gentlemen, calm your emotions, please. Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: Now back to valorization: ladies and gentlemen, we remember the valorization of the Civic Platform, at the level of PLN 2, 3 and 4. That's your valorization. [[Minister, there's been a deflation - a drop in prices.]] And today you're accusing us of giving us 7% valorization. ? You really don't have any shame. Shame on you for even talking about valorization. You have no idea what you're talking about. The second point about this year's additional benefits. More than 43 billion PLN will go to seniors: valorisation plus additional benefits, which are 13th pension and 14th pension. Retirement is called daily, because it is an allowance for benefits. It's not a typical pension, but it's assumed that it's a 13th pension and a 14th pension. These are additional benefits for pensioners, which improve their situation. This is the action we've taken. In addition, this year there is a pension without tax up to PLN 2500. It's easy to count. [[What about the health contribution?]] We have 30,000. PLN free amount and from July still tax reduction from 17% to 12% that is another solution, which also applies to pensioners who need these benefits. Only in the last 3 years is over PLN 100 billion for these benefits, so much money has been spent on pensioners. As we compare this with the times in which you ruled, we will see an almost tenfold increase in our expenditures compared to yours. We're talking about the kind of money we spend on pensions. You didn't give me a 13th pension or a 14th pension or a cover supplement, you didn't do anything, and today you're telling me what you want to do. [[Applause]] You didn't do anything. [[Speech Off the Microphone]] Mrs... Secretary of State at the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Stanisław Szwed: You gave me the slightest valorization, you didn't give me anything else. No pensioner on your programs has benefited from anything because you didn't have anything, not one thing you brought in. And today you're telling me this is your solution? [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] [[And what was that for?]] It's really funny. It's funny what you're saying. [[Applause]] [[Speech Off the Microphone]] It's funny what you're saying, really. Your 13th pension? In some underworld, I guess. [[Joy in the O.R., applause.]] I think I'm one of the parliamentarians with the longest internship in this Seym, and I know who offered. Ladies and gentlemen! I think it's a waste of our time to argue with you. It is important to send a message to our pensioners and pensioners, who today are proposing a 14th pension. This will cover 9 million of our countrymen. Seven hundred and eight hundred thousand. he will get a full pension, the lowest pension, in the case of the rest he will be called. The money mechanism for the gold, i.e. 9 million people, will benefit from this right. Agricultural pensioners, practically all pensioners who have up to PLN 2900, will get this full benefit, those who have above, as I said, will have a mechanism of gold for gold. It will not benefit from the 14th pension only a group of people, or less than 600,000. pensioners who have a pension of up to PLN 4188. But they will benefit from other solutions, as I said - from the free amount, from the reduction of PIT tax. For the weaker ones, we have introduced another solution - a cover supplement, a reduction in gas charges, energy charges. This is all one common mechanism. How can we propose other solutions if we are talking about systemic support solutions precisely because of inflation? This is a cover supplement, these are excise reductions, tax reductions. Because systemic solutions cannot go only towards inflation, systemic solutions must improve the situation of pensioners who receive benefits. There was a question about the payment of benefits. The first benefit will be paid on 25 August by the Social Insurance Institution. The bet is safe, there are no risks, both in terms of payouts and financing. And now the funding -- there were questions about why we would finance it from the Solidarity Fund. I've answered that before, too. The Solidarity Fund was co-financed last year from the state budget, just as the Social Insurance Fund is co-financed. After all, you are, some of you, on the Committee on Public Finance and you know that the Social Insurance Fund is financed by the state budget. There's no new stuff here. The same are payments to the fund that pays agricultural pensions. The Solidarity Fund was also financed from the state budget. The state of the Solidarity Fund at the beginning of this year was at the level of PLN 25 billion. We pay 13 pensions, we have 14 pensions, because the Solidarity Fund also consists of a monthly contribution of 1,45% from part of the Labour Fund. This is PLN 800 million a month, the supplement from the richest is the amount of PLN 1600 million and these are the funds that we have in the Solidarity Fund. There's no danger, no one's taking funds for people with disabilities. The amounts for supplementary benefits, for social pensions, for other activities that are in the Solidarity Fund, or for the Life Programme, amounting to almost PLN 9 billion, are implemented and there is no taking of money here, but, as I said, funding from another source, i.e. the Solidarity Fund. As far as the question is concerned, Mr President, about internship pensions, we are preparing an analysis. With regard to the civil project, we have estimated the first costs in 10 years in terms of introducing internship pensions, at PLN 120 billion. This is possibly the case if we want to talk about internship pensions. That is why we are looking for other solutions to this problem. One of the proposals is the presidential project, which is waiting to be discussed in Parliament. Then, I think, we'll also have the opportunity to choose from all the projects that are in the Seym, the best solution. We are concerned that issues relating to internship pensions should be dealt with in some way. But we are also aware of the costs we are talking about when it comes to internship pensions. I will stress once again: the 14th pension, which is an additional supplement to pensioners, will be paid this year from August. The total funds that we will spend on the 14th pension this year, that is PLN 11 400 million, including the thirteenth pension, is over PLN 25 billion, plus a 7-percent valorisation of PLN 43 billion. This year's inflation will affect next year's valorisation in the programme that we are sending to the Social Dialogue Council. We estimate that average annual inflation will be around 10% , i.e. the cost of next year's valorization will be about PLN 30 billion. And if we want to talk about numbers, we also have to remember that inflation is evaluated throughout the year in relation to the previous year, and these actions of this year, which we are taking, are protective actions, not actions through a system of valorization. Thank you very much. [[Applause]] Thank you very much, Minister. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, formal proposal. I'm just asking you not to overuse this motion. [[And in what mode?]] Start with the wording of the proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u696	Yes, of course. Mrs. Marshal! I would like to request a recess by tomorrow. 9 so that the Minister can seek economic knowledge. The situation in which there is a minimum valorization, but we are dealing with deflation in Poland, is a situation where the situation of pensioners is improving. A situation where we have a 7% valorization, but inflation is close to 13%, is a situation where the situation of pensioners is deteriorating because they lose one month's pension, which is burned out by price increases.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u697	Thank you very much, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u698	Minister, the person in your position...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u699	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u700	...should know the basics of economics. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u701	Of course, you abused it because there's no Marshal of the Sejm, there's no request for a break. I kindly ask Bożena Boris-Szopa, the rapporteur of the committee, to speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u702	Thank you very much, Marshal. Minister, I wanted to thank you very much for the facts, because with the facts it is very difficult to argue, and yet they are probably speaking to everyone, not just to imagination and consciences. But above all, facts are facts. Me to these facts. I'm gonna put my hand on it too. To my colleagues from the current opposition, and not so long ago from the ruling coalition - there was no war in Ukraine, but your prime minister said that we were a green island on the European map. And then what happened? On 11 May 2012, the PO-PSL government adopted a law increasing the retirement age from January 2013 to 67 years for women and men, for those in the city, and for those in the countryside, for women... [[But it wasn't supposed to be in 2042.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u703	Member, did someone bother you? Please continue, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u704	...in the city by seven years, for women in the country by 12, for men by two years. The valorization then amounted to PLN 3.80. 2014; OFE Fund. You said, or actually the Prime Minister of that time, that money at OFE is not money for pensioners. 153 million have gone... [[Voice from the room: Billions.]] ...153 billion went, as someone from your ruling coalition said, supposedly in good hands. In January 2015, the lowest pension was PLN 880 and in 2022 - 1380. And for pensioners taking up to 2.5 thousand benefits. gross tax abolition. Since February 2019 there has been a maternity pension for a parent raising more than four children. Maybe we'll find out in a minute that you had this project in your drawer. But it is in 2019 for pensioners who would never have any benefits because you didn't think about them that the Government of Law and Justice introduces maternal pensions. In 2019 there is a 13th pension for 10 million pensioners, since 2020 as a permanent benefit. In 2021 and 2022, an additional benefit is entered, so-called. 14th pension, which is estimated at another PLN 12 billion. And you, ladies and gentlemen, are you telling us that we're stealing from pensioners and pensioners? [[The voice from the hall: shame!]] You're acting like a thief who stole a hat, runs around screaming, catch a thief. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u705	Thank you very much, Member. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that, at the time of the second reading, an amendment was tabled to the proposed bill, I propose that the Sejm re-direct this proposal to the Committee on Social Policy and Family Policy and the Committee on Senior Policy in order to present a report. If I don't hear any objection, I'll think the Sejm has accepted the offer. I can't hear you objecting. We proceed with the examination of item 11 of the agenda: Report from the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's bill on the termination of the Agreement on multilateral settlements in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, drawn up in Moscow on 22 October 1963, as amended by the Protocol on the amendment of the Agreement on multilateral settlements in transfer rubles and the Statute of that Bank, drawn up in Moscow on 23 November 1977 and the Protocol on the amendment of the Agreement on the establishment and operation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation of 22 October 1963 (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990) and the Statute of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation (as amended by the Protocols of 18 December 1970, 23 November 1977 and 18 December 1990), drawn up in Warsaw on 25 November 2014 (prints No 2248 and 2287). I kindly ask Mr Andrzej Nobletta to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u706	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present to the High House a report by the Committee on Public Finance and the Committee on Foreign Affairs on the Government's draft bill on the termination of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, I will disregard these other details, print No. 2248. At today's joint meeting of the Commission: Public Finance and Foreign Affairs, the first reading was carried out and this draft law was examined. After hearing the justification of the government representative and answering the question asked, the Joint Committees: Public Finance and Foreign Affairs bring to the High House to approve the draft law from print no. 2248 without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u707	Thank you very much, sir. The Sejm agreed that in its discussion on this item it would listen to the five-minute statements on behalf of the cups and the three-minute statements on behalf of the wheels. I'm opening a discussion. The position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice will be presented by Mr Adam Gawed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u708	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! I have the honour to present the position of the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice towards the Government's draft bill on the termination of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and on the creation of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, drawn up in Moscow on 23 October 1963, together with the changes in the sounds given respectively by the protocols in subsequent years, which your Marshal read in full. Let me just quote that this is print number 2248. High Izbo! Due to the aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine and the fact that the main shareholder of the International Bank of Economic Cooperation based in Moscow is the Russian Federation, Poland's continued participation in this bank is unjustified. The actions of Putinow Russia: attack on a sovereign country - Ukraine, deliberate killing of civilians, innocent mothers and children, the destruction of housing estates, civilian infrastructure, the use of all possible weapons, including those prohibited by international conventions, have led to sanctions imposed on this country by the international community, including those of an economic nature. In such a case, the International Bank of Economic Cooperation, as a bank with the status of an international organisation, could continue to finance Russian entities and to avoid sanctions imposed. Poland cannot support, legitimise or participate in such activities. It should be added that the mere termination of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles and the creation of the International Bank for Economic Cooperation does not have direct social or economic consequences for Poland. However, it should be stressed that there is a fairly high risk of losing the financial resources contributed in the form of a paid-up share in the bank's capital, i.e. slightly over EUR 24 million. Additional claims may also arise from the bank. In the absence of detailed rules for the existence of a bank, the amount due to Poland for the contribution may be reduced by undefined liabilities, e.g. participation in the coverage of risks, at-risk claims or similar cases. The records of the bank's constitutional documents are very limited and vague in this respect. According to the statutes, the country in question should recover its capital, but with the deduction of its debt to the bank. The agreement on the International Bank of Economic Cooperation refers to the regulation of mutual commitments. These issues will certainly be the subject of arrangements during the presence of the bank, with a view to obtaining the best solution for Poland. It is worth emphasising the political effect of the statement which will demonstrate Poland's participation in international sanctions that affect the Russian Federation and which Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki is seeking in a fundamental way, indicating that the solidarity position of all European countries will be the most severe blow to the Russian economy and thus deprive the Russian Federation of the possibility of further financing its army's arms. In view of the above, the Parliamentary Club Law and Justice supports this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u709	Thank you very much, sir. Mrs Krystyna Skowrońska on behalf of the Civic Coalition Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u710	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The International Bank for Economic Cooperation established in 1963 was intended to serve good cooperation. Since then, we have settled in transfer rubles for years, we have changed the very agreement regarding the establishment of this bank, which has been members of eight countries in the last period, including Russia. And today Poland, like other countries, intends to end this cooperation, which is to be a retortion, a sanction towards Russia, which has caused conflict with Ukraine, where there is a ruthless war, which is a disaster for people, for Ukrainians. And we're defending peace. This is one of the sanctions that Poland can impose. In accordance with the constitutional provisions in force, the solution to this agreement is the adoption of a specific law. Thus, Poland's withdrawal from the International Bank of Economic Cooperation is in line with the article. Article 89 (1) (b) and (c) of Regulation (EU) No 1303/2013 1 point 3 of the Constitution and we are as the Civic Coalition in favour of this solution. Other countries have also decided to take such measures or take such measures. Among other things, there is one thing that goes on here. on the Czech Republic, Bulgaria, the Slovak Republic and Romania as well as Poland. Who, then, will remain in this bang at the International Bank of Economic Cooperation? Mongolia, Vietnam and Russia will remain there. Agreed, there is no statute in force today to determine how the withdrawal from this financial organisation should take place. And here there are risks, because the capital contributed is EUR 200 million, of which the Polish capital contributed to the bank is EUR 24 billion. If the termination is carried out correctly, and its period is 6 months, in this case we will recover the money. But if the shareholders who have capital vote capital, then we can lose money and expose ourselves to arbitration. However, we hope that this arbitration procedure, even if it lasts for many years, will end with the fact that we will get the money back. I asked at the committee meeting what Polish entities with this support, which is granted as a loan from this organization... I asked them what risks such entities might face. It was indicated that there is one such entity on the Polish market. And here is my huge appeal to the government side, because even if this entity were to lose, if it had been terminated earlier and the procedure for the recovery of this amount had begun, it would have been appropriate for this entity to provide some support from the government. We hope that this process will take place quickly, that other countries will also come from the International Bank of Economic Cooperation during the same period, because there are now announcements of other countries, and it will be one of the retorts against the Russian regime. This is our Polish answer where we can apply sanctions against an aggressor. I will repeat once again, as I said at the outset, that the Civic Coalition Club will be in favour of this project. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u711	Thank you. Mr Tomasz Trela, the position of the Left Club. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u712	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! At the outset, of course, I am making a declaration that the parliamentary club of the Left will also support this bill. For us there is no doubt that every gesture, every decision, every position that shows the world, shows Europe that it is necessary to isolate itself from the criminal aggressor, which is Putin, the Russian Federation, is a step in the right direction. Maybe it's not a big thing, maybe it's not the most important thing, but it's a symbolic thing. But on this occasion it is also worth saying and it is worth appealing to the government to be also very consistent and very determined, for example, in reproving Viktor Orbán, who all the time very unambiguously does not want to cut himself off from the Putin regime of Russia. He does business with them all the time, and he is one of the main blocking sanctions in the European Union. It is also worth calling on you to take over and confiscate the assets of the Russian oligarchy. When we as the Left tabled amendments in this regard to one of your laws, you voted against. It is necessary to define clearly and unambiguously whether you really want to fight Putin's regime and show all possible solutions, whether you are really going to make it easy, and only those things that are the easiest are proposed. We are clearly in favour of going hard, decisively, strongly. Any action proposed by the Government of Law and Justice to undermine Russia's economic position, the parliamentary club of the Left will certainly support. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u713	Thank you very much. Mr Jan Szopiński in the second part of the club speech.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u714	My clubmate talked about the club's support for this bill, but we also have a few questions for the government. In our view, it is a good thing that, for obvious reasons, we are dealing with this problem, but it is a pity that we had to wait so long for these reactions. We were hoping that this delay was dictated by ongoing consultations and arrangements with the bank's shareholders, but it turns out that such reasoning is a mistake, because after 3 months, the government prepared a divisive project without considering the main issues, for example, regarding the reimbursement of funds paid by Polish taxpayers for the creation of this bank. Moreover, the government now does not know whether, in addition to the loss of our initial capital, the shareholders will not charge us additional fees. But I have a question from a completely different barrel, one that interests public opinion. The question concerns possible payments, bonuses or other additional cash benefits for the Polish management of this institution. Will these be paid to persons in this bank for various management functions? If so, how much are we talking about in the case of the President of the National Bank of Poland? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u715	Mr Władysław Teofil Bartoszewski on behalf of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Polska. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u716	Dear Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Parliamentary Club, Coalition Poland - PSL I have the honour to present an opinion on printing no 2248. Dear Marshal! Let me not read the entire title of this bill...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u717	Yes, we'd appreciate it.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u718	...because this whole bill is pretty curious. The title of this law is longer than the content of this law. I haven't seen such things in the Seym, but of course you learn all the time, and here I am relatively new. From this point of view, it is quite a miserable project, because it contains two articles, the other of which consists of one short sentence. That's the title that's more interesting. The government's justification to terminate this agreement with the International Bank for Economic Cooperation is politically correct and we, of course, support it because we should not finance the Russian Federation in any way. Only the first question that comes to mind is: Why is it so late? When East Germany, which was also a shareholder of this bank, merged with the Federal Republic of Germany, came out of that bank. Why has the Republic of Poland been in this bank since 1963? I understand the commune, that was the terms, but since 1990, it seems like we've been able to get out of there in a sound sense. I do not understand this and it is not presented in any way in the draft law. The government doesn't really know how it all works, because this deal with the bank was so concluded that there are many questions And there aren't enough answers about what we'd do if we wanted to get out of there. What will happen to this Polish borrower, who is supposed to be the only one with a loan of EUR 12.3 million? Will he in any way bear the cost of breaking this agreement? If so, the government should compensate him somehow. What will happen to bonds issued by the Polish government and Polish institutions in the amount of approx. 37 million euros? As I assume, the owners of these bonds get a coupon from these bonds, which is the main owner of these bonds is Russian Federation. The Russian Federation receives a coupon from bonds issued by Poland, i.e. it earns in Poland, which means we continue to finance the Russian Federation, even if to a poor degree, because I suspect that this coupon is not so high and I did not check. Are we doing anything about that? Those are questions. It seems that the Ministry of Finance hasn't done this in years. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs certainly forgot about this because it was extremely insignificant, but it was economic cooperation with the bank, which settled in transfer rubles. I am an older man, therefore I know what a transfer ruble is, but the majority of Members in this House have no idea and it is a bit of a sin of omission from the government. Of course, we will support this law, we will vote for it, but the justification of this law presented by the government is miserable. From serious officials and politicians, especially from the Ministry of Finance, who once had a very good reputation in this country, but in recent years anything has fallen, which we all know very well, I would expect to do a little better domestic work. I'd expect it, but I don't expect it. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u719	Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u720	Bravo! In spite of your aunt's anger, we'll freeze our ears off. It's politics, it's the wisdom of the stage. The Belgian President in Kiev has declared the categoric imperative of this policy. You can't go back to business as usual with the Moscals, so you have to lose, because if you don't as usual, it's unusual, and unusual in diplomacy, Minister, you know it best that unusual is an unusual state, it's martial law. Poland as a war party. Here, praise God, it is about money, which of course the left, and the left with the right despises, because it is money which Poles have to lose, but power, the government always feeds somehow there. And what's it like in practice? In practice, there's a list of those who have already opened these ruble accounts at Moskala, so that this gas, this oil, can be bought. These are Germany, Austria, Slovakia, Italy, but we will of course go ahead and we will hold a firm front. In practice, a fellow Member here urges that these horrible oligarchs freeze here, confiscate without pity. In practice, I spoke to people today who informed me about the situation of a company whose name I will not mention, so that it was not a kiss of death from the parliamentary stand, but the State in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should know about it, because a country from western Europe has already been complaining about it because it is a company operating in Poland, but capital is western. A minority shareholder is a Ukrainian Jew who makes a Russian oligarch who can't be reached so that he can sign out of this company, so the company has to fall. He's got a closed Internet account, so he can't pay people. For you, it's a bagatela, it's a couple hundred people who walk around without paying and are about to go bankrupt, so let them find another job. Only a prank is that this company produces a very sublime product, among others. for the use of the American defence industry. Isn't it such a variant, such a combination that it is necessary, under the pretext of freezing the oligarch's assets, to liquidate this company in Poland, so that it will open up again, but already in the United States, where American comrades will rather know how to make money? [[♪ The bell ♪]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u721	Thank you very much. Mrs Paulina Hennig-Kloska, Poland 2050. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u722	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Minister! The exit from the International Bank for Economic Co-operation and the mutual arrangements on transfer ruble is rather a symbolic act having a political dimension rather than having a real impact on the economy in Moscow or Russia, or on the actual valuation of the ruble, which is a ruble settled, not a transfer. This is mainly because the currency of the transfer ruble is not actually used for anything today, and in the economy it is also symbolic and even for mutual settlement between countries it is actually rarely used. On the other hand, the ruble itself is artificially maintained today by Russia's central bank policy, because in order to actually influence the ruble, we would have to stop sending mottos to Russia and the central bank would have to release the ruble course, allowing it to be sold. Meanwhile, the sale of ruble is frozen and the mottos continue to flow, which artificially creates a good position for this currency. However, of course yes, in this situation, it is necessary to freeze your grandmother's ears off, Mr Putin, because that is exactly how you put Europe in this situation by making artificial demonstrations of forces that serve Putin's propaganda, and in fact today it is our duty to take all the tools and opportunities to make demonstrations of strength away from him. [[You just said it doesn't matter.]] It is up to us to come out of all kinds of cooperation with Russia to show that it is a toxic market, is a country with which the world wants nothing to do with, and is an economy that needs to be weakened rather than any business relationship with it. And that is why, as I said, this gesture is meaningless, but it is symbolic, and such symbols today around the world with regard to Putin and Russia should be as much as possible. Therefore, as Poland 2050 Szymon Hołowni we will vote in favour of this law, hoping that the government will do everything to recover the EUR 24 million of the capital we have at the International Bank for Economic Cooperation, because the agreement provides for mutual settlement of claims in the event of termination of cooperation. I expect and expect from the Polish government that even if we are to end up in the arbitration court, we will be beating ourselves up by 24 million symbolically, because it is important money for citizens. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u723	Thank you. Let's move on to asking questions. I'm closing the list. I'm setting the time - one minute. The first question will be asked by Krystyna Skowrońska, the Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u724	High Izbo! I have a question for the Minister, and I asked that today at the meeting of the Committee on Public Finance and Foreign Affairs on settlement arrangements. According to the statutes, the country in question should recover its capital, but with the deduction of its debt to the bank. The International Bank of Economic Co-operation agreement refers to the regulation of mutual commitments. The issues will be dealt with. I would like to ask: Are you prepared and how much will the deduction be? Because you did not show such an obligation in the explanatory memorandum or during the meeting. And the second thing about this subject who had support. I was talking about the threat to this entity and I wanted to ask: How will you be able to help such (the bell) entity that will lose funds as a result of Poland's termination of the agreement? Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u725	Thank you. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club. Thank you. Mr Rafał Adamczyk, Lewis Club. There isn't. Mr Tadeusz Tomaszewski, the Left Club. There isn't. [[Voice from the room: There isn't.]] Mr Grzegorz Braun, Confederation. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u726	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister! With reference to this project concerning termination of the multilateral settlement agreement in transfer rubles, please note: How many more such agreements are there, if of course they are, which should be terminated? Please also indicate whether you have such a list of entities that conduct transactions with Russia, how many such contracts are carried out and do you have such a list? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u727	Thank you. Ms Urszula Zielińska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u728	Mrs. Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! On 2 March this year, the Ministry of Finance announced that due to the military aggression of the Russian Federation against Ukraine, we decided to take steps to cease participation in the International Bank of Economic Cooperation and the International Investment Bank. The International Investment Bank is a bank controlled by Putin, through which Russian Oligarchs invest money in Europe. The bank is probably a cover for the Russian service. This is the result of an international investigation in which he participated, among others. {MM/ YYYY} {MM/ YYYY} {MM/ YYYY} {MM/ YYYY} In 2016 the bank tried to deal with Polish entities, among others. started with a special support programme for Polish companies. He also dealt with Alior Bank. In 2019 the seat of the International Investment Bank was transferred from Moscow to Budapest. Question: "Does Poland still have any connection with this bank?" When Prime Minister Morawiecki hosted the Hungarian President in Warsaw on 17 May, he asked her why Hungary still has...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u729	Thank you, Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u730	...a Russian money launderer. And one more question...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u731	Thank you very much, Member. Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. You're welcome, sir. [[One more question.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u732	Minister...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u733	No, but I'm sorry, Member. 13 seconds...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u734	Is Mr Adam Glapiński still a member of this bank's board?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u735	Thank you very much. You're welcome, sir. Thank you. The list of Members registered in the vote has been exhausted. I kindly ask the Undersecretary of State at the Ministry of Finance of Minister Piotr Patkowski to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u736	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Answering questions first about the alleged curiaality of the text of the bill. Mr President, this is the way in which the legislation is formulated, with the International Agreements Act of 2000. If the Member thinks that it is wrong, then of course the legislator can always change it. However, this is not an invention of the Ministry of Finance or of the Government, but simply according to legal principles, this is how these agreements are drawn up. So I think that sarcasm was a little unauthorized. The second point worth paying attention to. Here I am convinced that Mrs Skowrońska has simply slipped through the tongue, which is quite natural due to the late hour. Of course, 24 million, not billions. [[Millions.]] That is of course, but it is worth correcting this so that it is clear, because the amount does make a big impression. Where do these issues arise when it comes to settlement problems? It's pretty obvious. The standing agreement was concluded in the 1960s by states belonging to the Soviet bloc and it seemed quite difficult to imagine a situation in which any state, which was then a satellite of the Soviet Union, would wish to make such an agreement with its great brother. Of course, this agreement contained residual rules governing its occurrence, because it was the right thing to do, but it was rather pro forma. No one then predicted that any state from the Soviet bloc would stand up and decide to break the agreement with the Soviet Union. So far this statute has not been detailed in this respect and no one has been able to. Although as Poland we have been proposing for many years to define this procedure, unfortunately there was no such interest on the part of other shareholders. Hence, we openly acknowledge that the issue of EUR 24 million can be problematic to recover. What does that tell you? This is because the Russian State, as the owner of this bank and the largest shareholder, has no reason to make anything easier for us. But with a choice of blackmail from Russia, if you do not act, you will not receive EUR 24 million, and with a choice to maintain a very clear position and also withdraw from an agreement that may be a vehicle to circumvent international sanctions... It seems that the price of EUR 24 million is not excessive. Moreover, the fact that the bank - we do not know this, but we accept such a probability - will not want to pay us this sum, does not mean that as Poland and the other four countries of the European Union that want to come out of this bank, i.e. Czech Republic, Slovakia, Romania and Bulgaria, we are deprived of resources. We have internal regulatory measures that can at least somehow force the bank to receive these funds, but we also have external resources, like international arbitration. We do not give up these measures, we will take them, and of course we will. On the other hand, we must not fear EUR 24 million as a continuation in a strange institution that can be the source and arm of Moscow to deal with international sanctions. Another thing worth explaining at this point is the distinction, as far as this bank is concerned, between certain international and civil law relations that are taking place. In the bill, this is what I was talking about just now, there are international relations, legally governed by international agreements. What else are civil law issues raised by equivalent entities. First of all, this situation is the acquisition of issues, the acquisition of bonds issued by a Member State, also Poland, because bonds issued by the State Treasury or Bank Gospodarstwa Krajowego are held by this bank, but this is no longer an international regulation. This is civil law, where we have a debtor and a creditor. This creditor is the bank and, of course, it owns these bonds, but they are purchased on the basis of the conditions of issue and whether Poland is a member of this bank or not does not affect it. The rules for issuing these bonds, their regulations do not affect Poland's participation in this bank. The same is true of this single Polish entity that owes the bank. Notabene is more of a civil-law situation... Here, too, it is worth noting that Poland is no party, it is a guarantor, it is a guarantor, we do not participate in this agreement, we do not know the details of the credit agreement. It's a free market regulation, the government doesn't interfere with such issues. On the other hand, in this regulation I would be more concerned about the possibility of paying such a debt on the side of the bank, i.e. the creditor. A completely separate issue is this, I am very curious how such a claim in general can be repaid in the case of sanctions imposed and the ban on the marketing of rubles. So this is a completely different matter. But here, I think the bank should be more concerned about the possibility of enforcing this loan than the debtor in the form of this company, first of all. Secondly, it is up to the bank that this agreement should continue and be implemented, given what I was just talking about, which is the issue of sanctions. Third, of course, the creditor can always initiate enforcement proceedings, while the question is whether it can be implemented outside the territory of the Russian Federation. It is hard to imagine that now any administrative authorities of the Russian State or administrative bodies of the Polish State would carry out administrative decisions that took place in the territory of the Russian Federation. However, of course, if this company finds any problems with the implementation of this credit agreement, these are Polish institutions, there is also the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which will help, but this risk in terms of both bonds and credit agreements, I do not state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u737	Thank you very much, Minister. The discussion is closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u738	Dear Marshal! Minister! High Izbo! In the explanatory memorandum of the bill we read that in the event of Poland's withdrawal from MBWG there is a high risk of losing the financial resources transferred in the form of a paid-up share in the capital of the bank of EUR 24,016 million. In addition, it is noted that the MBWG agreement refers to the regulation of mutual liabilities in the event of withdrawal from the bank. These issues are to be agreed upon in the course of the presence of the bank. Therefore, I ask you to explain: in the years 2016-2021 did the government take steps to clarify the provisions in order to safeguard the interests of the Republic of Poland, or did the PiS government scandalously leave Poland's interests in Russian hands?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u739	We will proceed to the third reading of the bill in the voting block. This concludes the agenda items scheduled for 25 May this year. I would like to inform you that Members have come forward to make their statements. Would any of you and your fellow Members like to make a statement? No one's checking in. I therefore consider the list of Members made to be closed. The first statement will be made by Mr Grzegorz Braun.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u740	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Your countrymen! Another day, on the one hand, on the other hand, where the High House expressed its strengthening on the front of the fight for democracy in Ukraine by supporting immigration or resettlement of Ukrainians to Poland, and on the other hand, by carrying out, as we have just heard, meaningless in practice beyond any damage to the state budget, the gestures that are being imposed here under the sanctions that we impose on Moskali, in practice, are sanctions imposed on our own people. The main topic of today was political corruption on a large scale, i.e. buying votes by a united right-wing lie, buying the voices of unfortunate rectors and pensioners. And that is what I would like to refer to in this statement. The 14th pension, which in fact is not a retirement, is promised to pensioners, who for 2 years killed in Poland just pensioners and pensioners, who were weaker, killed literally by cutting off universally from distance to medical services, by blocking hospitalization, by locking up in house arrests called quarantine. I've got a relationship with house arrests like this. There's been calls made to the unfortunates by the Army's territorial defense soldiers at the police station to check on the phone to see if there's a pensioner out there. And day by day, one of these soldiers reports with tears in the eyes of one of them: an older man answers the phone. He says his wife can't come to the phone, and the next day he says that this wife is already dead because you didn't let people look for care, help, rescue. Those who crawled into hospital emergency services often died there because you issued a directive not to heal. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Don't treat oncology, don't treat... [[Vice-Marshal turns off the microphone, Member speaks with the microphone off]] ...but also criminals.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u741	Ms Agnieszka Dziemianowicz-Bąk, club Lewis. Please make a statement. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u742	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Mother's Day. In a few days, we'll be celebrating Children's Day. All moms should be happy these days, while the young future moms from the Lower Silesia Shooting arouses fear. The fear that soon more than 600 children would disappear from their city and county, a place where more than 600 children were born before the pandemic each year. But from the beginning. At the end of 2020, when the shooting medical center was in bankruptcy, the University Clinical Hospital in Wrocław decided to purchase the facility. The Agreement was concluded on 1 January 2021. It seemed that this transaction was a lifeline thrown to the people of the Shooting. The USK has committed itself that no workers and workers will be fired and that there will still be four divisions in the Shooting: internal, childbirth, children's and surgical. Promises weren't kept. As soon as the facility was taken over by the USK, children's and surgical units were closed. When the Shooting District Council pointed out that this was not in line with the agreement, the hospital covered itself with a pandemic and a lack of staff that had been charged with COVID's operation. When asked about the situation of the Lower Silesian voivode, he washed his hands, saying that it was a question of a discrepancy of expectations between the University Clinical Hospital and the Shooting Government. High Izbo, the expectations of the Shooting Government were presented in a notarial agreement signed by the hospital authorities. What kind of discrepancies are we talking about here? Less than two weeks ago, the people of Shooting learned about further plans, plans to eliminate gynaecological and neonatological wards and surgical infirmary. Gynecologists and neonatologists were to expect pronouncements by the end of May. It's a blow to families, to young and future mothers, to women who need gynecological services. On May 20th in the Shooting, I protested together with residents and residents, with medical staff of the medical center, with local government officials. On the streets of this Lower Silesian city side by side, Mr. Mayor, the governor, young moms and children and pregnant women. Several hundred people, mostly women, mothers, marched to save the place where their children were born and their children could be born again. After this massive mobilization, the spokesperson at the University Clinical Hospital claims that the decision to terminate the gynecology and obstetrics department has not yet been made. It's the light of hope. But what guarantee do the residents and residents of the Shooting House have if even the provisions of the notarial agreement did not prevent the USK from liquidating its troops in the future? Therefore, believing in the good intentions of the University Clinical Hospital is not enough. I appeal to all Members and Members, especially Members and Members of Lower Silesia, for their signature under a petition to save the delivery at the Shooting House. Let the future moms from the Shooting have real reasons to celebrate, not fear. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u743	Thank you. Mrs Paulina Matysiak, Club Left.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u744	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Staff members and employees of the Olsztyn City Hall, the city social services centre, the crèches team and the social services centre have joined forces in the struggle for decent wages for their hard and sacrificial work. Unfortunately, this is not an isolated story on the map of today's Poland, but even a story which shows a trend. City bountyers boast and proudly present the fruits of urban investments: renovated roads, renovated public buildings, urban parks, squares and sports facilities. Everything is to be nice, modern and European. At the same time, employees and employees of municipal offices, people employed in urban education, care and culture receive modest salaries, which sometimes need to be raised only because they do not fall below the minimum wage, as was the case in 2018 at the Olsztyn Town Hall. That's the kind of practice you have to stop. I wholeheartedly support those protesting today against the city authorities of Olsztyn who refuse their honest wages. There is no agreement that modernity and europeanity of Polish cities are only a façade behind which miserable salaries and savings on public services are hidden, especially in the area of care for the youngest and most needy. There is no agreement between the municipal authorities to refuse access to information about salaries or to dispose of their legitimate demands for scandalously low increases. President Olsztyn is not the only president of the city who has a radical policy of saving on residents and on employees of local government units who have been earning pennies for years. Włodar Olsztyna conducts a dramatic austerity policy on salaries of people employed by the local government, as well as skims funds for culture, sport or civic activity. Without practically any support, they remain e.g. Local council settlements, remains without support from Olsztyn Centre of NGOs. In this case Olsztyn local councillors from the party Together Bartosz Grucela, Marcin Gulczyński, but also other people such as Małgorzata Maruszewska-Boruc and Timothy Lecyk, appealed to the town hall in November 2021. The local councillors and presidents raised their salaries by 100%. The president's making almost 20,000 now. PLN and the average wage, the average salary at the City Hall at the City Council Office is PLN 3600 gross, and at the Department of Geodesia as Inspector - PLN 3200 gross. This is the data at the end of March. This can't be right. We disagree as a party together with this urban policy and fully support the wage demands of workers and workers. We appreciate their courage and determination in the fight for decent wages, in the fight in which we believe success and which we support fully. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u745	Thank you very much. Mr Marek Polak, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Jan Szopiński, the Left Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u746	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! According to the media, which is also apparent from the available report, the position of the President of the Institute of National Remembrance opens not only the gate and not only the gate, but the wide gate for free traveling around the world under various lofty pretexts, also under the banner of restoring memory, even if this memory has been It's already been restored there. Mr Karol Nawrocki is to be the traveling champion personally, who was so passionate and mobilized that he visited as many as four continents in the last six months of the rule. Hawaii, Uzbekistan, Johannesburg, Pretoria, New Orleans, Washington or London. He fought bravely everywhere for peace and truth in the world, as well as against fascism, Nazism and communism. Only South America, Australia, and Antarctica lacked the president of the IPN to win the crown of the continents of the world. But I suppose the president will soon make up for these shortcomings with commitment and commitment. Even now, as we read, he has set up a show in New York about Wojtek's Bear, and with a good story about the bear and a good fantasy you can come to Los Angeles, you can visit Niagara Falls, especially in Rocky Mountains, where you can visit American bears with a Polish bear. Barey, if he could, he'd look at this bear and your president with disbelief and deep jealousy. In flying around the world at the expense of Poles, President Nawrocki is neither the first nor the last of right-wing politicians and historians, and the IPN is neither the first nor the last government institution used as a travel agency. I have a report on the activities of the IPN for 2020. It's such a huge cottage. I would like to make a huge appeal to the President to respect the Polish forests. In 2021, let this report really be limited to detailed information, while all the other Members and, I think, all of Poland will read to themselves on the Internet. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u747	Mr Jarosław Rzepa, Coalition Poland. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u748	Thank you. Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I would like to refer, ladies and gentlemen, to the words of Prime Minister Morawiecki, who recently said that Norway is indirectly preying on the war caused by Putin and that they should share. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, in view of what is to happen in the autumn of this year - and I hope that it will become physically, when it comes to completing the very important investment that is Baltic Pipe - whether gas will flow in this pipe. Because after such words I would think very hard, being at least the Prime Minister of Norway, or with a partner who speaks in this way, it is worth signing a contract. I'm afraid, ladies and gentlemen, because the nine billion that aren't going to be coming anytime soon... Poland may not have this gas this fall. What happens then? Not necessarily gas will flow from other directions. That is why, Prime Minister, with such words - very carefully, very carefully, because it will first feel our economy. In the first place, the gas tap will be twisted right there, and the economy must move on. Therefore, let this be a warning, and on the other hand we expect - we have often talked about this as the Coalition of Poland - the immediate restoration of wind power, the elimination of the 10H rule. We expect to restore photovoltaic energy to previous solutions, because this is our state right. We have to build it. We need to build diversification, but we also need to build internal energy production and perhaps in the form of a biogas plant also this alternative to gas, the one that can be produced in these biogas plants. Today we have to draw conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that we are building connections with other countries. It's a good thing we're dispersing. Let us draw further conclusions so that we can produce as much inside as possible, but first of all let us look at the fact that in foreign policy every word has its weight and sometimes a burden for which Poles and the Polish economy do not pay. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u749	Thank you very much, sir. Ms Krystyna Skowrońska, Civic Coalition.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u750	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Dear Listening Retired Persons! I'd like to say that today they promised, said how much you were getting. I wanted to run an account with you, retiree, count how much you're gonna lose in 2022. They say you'll get a 13th and 14th pension, but sit down and count. You have the lowest pension - 1338 PLN, inflation - 12% , per year - 144%. So you will gain PLN 660. When you pay 9% contributions, i.e. 1445 zł, then count how much you're gonna lose. You're gonna lose $900. So you will pay PLN 66.66 a month. You'll lose $66.66. The minister said today in this courtroom that it was worse. Sure, you had less money, but when inflation in 2012 was 3.7% Your pension was valued at 104.8%. If there was no inflation in 2014, you gained 1.6%. When there was a deflation, the prices stood in place, you gained at least 36 PLN. The valorization was. In 2008, there was also valorisation and it was 106,5%. You figured out how much you lost to me. Really every month, although they pay you a 13th pension and today they promise you a 14th pension, you pay PLN 66.66 because there is high inflation. Sit down, count again, and know that you can't count on the PiS. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u751	Mr Maciej Kopiec, Club Left. Mrs Anna Pieczarka, Law and Justice. There isn't. Mr Władysław Kurowski, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u752	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! I wanted to make a statement on the 20th anniversary of the establishment of the honorary blood donor club on the county board of the voluntary fire department in Myślenice and with the desire to honor the dead. A friend of Andrzej Storzawa's, founder of the club. For 20 years, in the Thinking Union, firefighters have been giving blood in an organized manner, saving lives every day. The adventure of blood firefighters began in the summer of 2001, when there was a sudden unexpected lack of blood. As a result, the president of the Malopolska Voivodship Association of TSOs in Krakow addressed firefighters with an appeal for blood donation. At that time in Myślenice the president of the sleep. Andrzej Storzawa undertook to organize blood donation in voluntary firefighters in the area of the Thinking County. This action was intended to pass on the blood obtained as a gift of lifeguards for children injured in accidents. This noble action was taken by the firefighters from the area of the Myślenicki district as the first in the Małopolska voivodship and continued to this day. Blood is the greatest gift that can be given to a neighbor in addition to life. The firefighters from my district have repeatedly proven that they are aware of this fact. Due to a good response to the blood donation campaign conducted in 2002, the county headquarters in Myślenice founded a fire club of honorary blood donors, which allowed the creation of a blood bank at the same time. Thanks to the great commitment and dedication of members of TSOs and their families, as well as volunteers, the amount of blood given today is already over 9.5 thousand. I, and so far more than 400 actions have been carried out. There used to be over 20 in the year, today - about 15. The amount of blood given during one action varies from 7 to 40 l. Initially, blood was given only at a blood station in Myślenice, occasionally in the field. Today most of the action is carried out in the field. In order to appreciate the blood-giving firefighters and those supporting blood donation, the county headquarters created their own badges for blood donation: a brown badge for 10 l, a silver badge awarded after 15 l and a gold badge - after giving away 20 l of blood. The badge is named after the founder of the honorary blood donor club on the district board of the OSP in Myślenice, a friend of Andrzej Storzawa. So far 150 brown, 90 silver and 80 gold badges have been awarded. On behalf of the blood-giving firefighters, I would like to thank the Regional Blood and Blood Centre in Krakow and the blood-giving station staff in Myślenice and all employees for their professional care of blood-giving firefighters (the Bell). I extend my words of great appreciation to all those who have supported and supported the fire club of honorary blood donors, and I thank the firefighters who give part of themselves to others for promoting noble attitudes and caring for human life. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u753	Thank you very much. Mr Bartłomiej Dorywalski, Law and Justice. You're welcome. Thank you very much, sir. Mr Grzegorz Lorek, Law and Justice.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u754	Dear Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, Small homelands, big stories. During my parliamentary tours in the Piotrków region, I reach many villages, which are usually passed every day. Few people stop at them, possible funny connotations about their names arouse a smile. Undoubtedly, Srock belongs to these villages with a ring name. His people asked me to mention her. Srocko, because that was once the name of this small point on the map, has been known since the 14th century, and historical records also mention other names - Serokkye, Srokkye. Where does that name come from? Toponomastics can't answer that question. It is certain that in the middle of the 14th century in this village there was already a brick parish church, and one Stanisław, the son of Michael of Srock, was the chief of the village. While the parish where Srock was located was quite stable, administrative membership changed very often: from the former Wolbor castleania to the contemporary municipality of Moszczenica. The village was also the seat of the commune in 1953-1954. A founder of the church of St. St. Benedicta became Stanisław Małachowski himself - later Marshal of the Grand Sejm in 1760. Right next to it, as the locals say, the old road to Łódź is located on a characteristic hill graveyard - as if a simple rural necropolis, but not quite. Next to the inhabitants of Srock and the surrounding area there are also graves of soldiers who died in battles during both wars. One grave stands out from among them. It belongs to the son of chancellor of the German Reich Theobald von Bethmann Hollweg Fryderyk, lieutenant of the Kirasier Leib regiment, who died in December 1914 during a famous operation in Łódź. That's the big story that got to little Srock. Finally, I must mention one more thing. In Srock, a volunteer fire department works perfectly, which boasts of many trips and actions, which it carries out successfully. In this unit, too, the great orchestra, which participates not only in the life of the village, but also in the entire municipality of Moszczenica, part of which is Srock. So many cases, 700 years of history, a small and big story, and so a small town with a funny name. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u755	Thank you very much, sir. Mr Jacek Kurzepa, Law and Justice. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u756	Dear Marshal! Allow me, on behalf of the people of Lubuskie, to thank you for your presence in my regional homeland. 21, 22 and 23 May are dense from the activity of the civil society of the land of Lubuskie guesthouse, which we have submitted to you, the Marshal's mistress. Thank you for coming to my little homeland, starting with Białkowa, a village somewhere in the western lands and recovering, to which the inhabitants of the old Kresów, from Polesia, arrived 75 years ago. Now the Polesian families have grown into the western land, into the land of Lubuskie, continue the traditions of the ancestors, and with great heart, hospitality and openness have welcomed you on the doorstep of our Lubusian home. Both the mayor of Cybinka Marek Kołodziejczyk and Dr. Wojciech Weryszko, president of the Polesia and Białkow Lovers' Society, welcomed you with joy and entrusted you with the care of you, Gosieńce, the mother of the border environments, as was said and repeated also in Olbrachów, to which we went to meet with the border environments, folk bands, music bands, both young people and a little older people, where we were hosted by the commune of Żara, Leszek Mrożek. But first of all, the midwife of this part of the visit was the town councilman from Zar Tadeusz Canvas and he repeated these words that we welcome you, mother of the border environments, Gosieńko, mother of the Kres. Thank you for being here, Marshal. Incredibly warm, warm. I watched the women come up to you, sticky, tender. How did the children of the Golden Ear band run up and say, "You're the marshal? Yes! You were among us and then, in the evening, about the end of the day, after a meeting in the village of Złotnik on the 20th anniversary of the band Chabra and 60th anniversary of the Village Housewife Circle, where girls, lazy women, beautiful like Polish chabras, sang various songs, went to our Blessed Virgin Mary of Rokytnia patiently listening and in your intimate, discreet prayer (The Bell) the whole world. Thank you, Mrs Marshal, for this visit, for the accents of the 100th anniversary of the Polish Society in Germany, for repeating the Five Truths of Poles, which are extremely important and also today are a challenge for us. Your marshal, thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u757	Thank you, sir. I thank the land of Lubuska for its hospitality, sir, for its invitation. Those were actually special days and tomorrow on this matter, I hope, I will be given a statement. I can't do this today, but because of you, I've actually experienced the hospitality of Lubusian land, thank you. Mrs Karolina Pavlichak, Lewis Club.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u758	Mrs. Marshal! High Izbo! Today there has already been a discussion related to the changes in the Law on the Supreme Court, which are intended to aim at the liquidation of the Disciplinary Chamber, whose unlawful anchoring in the Polish judiciary imposes a penalty on our country of EUR 1 million per day. Minister Ziobro and his party and the rest of the ruling Right has already given us nearly PLN 1 billion for failing to implement the ruling of the TSUE. I don't think it's necessary to justify to anyone what we could buy for such a huge amount and how to invest it, and where to direct a stream of money to make it the most effective. I also point out that this counter beats every day, and this amount grows to enormous sizes. However, I do not want to talk about politics here, although this, as you can see, has an impact on most areas of our lives, but on things that are so difficult to convert into certain amounts and value. Today, the gene therapy of every child with SMA reaches an enormous amount of over PLN 10 million. Life and human health are so easy, because this 1 billion golden penalties would fully cure nearly 100 sick children. May the symbol of these children be Jagodyka, whose history should be known by the whole of Poland. The berry from the district of Kalisz suffers from this monstrous disease, which slowly absorbs its strength and causes gradual muscle atrophy. The only chance for her treatment is gene therapy. A few days ago, the Blueberry went to the ICU. The girl's condition is very severe. My parents are asking for help. They are begging for support in their collection for the most expensive drug in the world - especially now that the drug has been used up. Up to this point, we managed to collect more than 42% The amount you need, but it's still not enough. There is little time left to collect the missing amount, as the medicine can only be given up to a certain weight. It's a terrible race against time. It's even hard to imagine the drama that this girl's parents and all the little patients experience. They may be helpless, for why are their children doomed to such a fate, dependent only on a drug whose application determines an unimaginable price? I ask on behalf of all parents of children suffering from SMA, first of all, to reduce to zero the tax on this horribly expensive drug and to include it in the refunded treatment. It should be noted here that the price of the drug has just increased by almost 700,000. zł. The tax levied by the State is 8 per cent. That's another blow. Let me remind you that President Andrzej Duda announced the creation of the Medical Fund in March 2020. Its aim, as we know, was to finance highly innovative therapies not available in Poland. [[♪ The bell ♪]] There were words from the Prime Minister, the President, that the fund would now be used to pay for these treatments. And every week, one child with spinal muscle atrophy is diagnosed. Every week parents hear this diagnosis and basically either open collections or go to Germany or the Netherlands, where doctors introduce this product as a first-use drug. The drug is refunded in countries like Greece, Portugal, in countries with a similar level of wealth, such as Bulgaria or Romania. He is very willing to finance this Egypt. In Poland, had it not been for the huge involvement in collections, the help of people of goodwill and donor organisations, children would have been condemned to slowly die. In the case of gene therapy in SMA, it is possible to give a medicine to a child who may not even know later in life that he had such a defect and could have had a severe illness. I ask you to consider this matter and take my conclusion because I speak on behalf of the parents of children who are really very ill. Thank you, Marshal, for extending your time. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u759	It's important. Thank you. Mrs Anna Dąbrowska-Banaszek, Law and Justice. You're welcome, my fellow Member.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u760	Mrs. Marshal! High Seym! Today we celebrate the 74th anniversary of the death of rtm. Witold Pilecki. Who was Witold Pilecki? He was born on 13 May 1901 in Ołońc, Karelia, northern Russia, where his family was resettled as part of the repression for their participation in the January Uprising. He was from a nobleman who sealed Leila's coat of arms. From 1910 he lived and studied in Vilnius. Since 1914, he has been a member of the Russian Boy Scouts, banned by the Russian authorities. In 1918-1921 he served in the Polish Army. He fought in the Polish-Bolshevik war in 1920. As a cavalryman, he took part in the defense of Grodno. In August 1920 he joined the 211st Ulyan regiment and fought in the Battle of Warsaw, Rudnicka Forest and participated in the liberation of Vilnius. Twice he was awarded the Cross of Valor. After his graduation in 1921 he studied briefly in independent Poland at the Faculty of Fine Arts at the Stefan Batory University in Vilnius. After the course at the Cavalry Training Centre in Grudziądz, he was appointed as a lieutenant in reserve. He started a family, he ran his own estate. Mobilised in August 1939, he fought in the September campaign in the composition 19. Prusai Army Division as commander of the squad cavalry platoon. After the campaign ended, he entered Warsaw, where he became one of the organizers of the underground secret Polish Army under the command of Major on 9 November 1939. Jan Włodarkiewicz, later subordinate to the Armed Fighting Union. On 19 September 1940, during the German capture he was allowed to arrest himself in order to get to Auschwitz and obtain information about the conditions there. He was the main initiator of the conspiracy in the camp. He founded a Union of Military Organizations to support prisoners, to acquire food, medicines, clothing, to convey messages, and to prepare staff that could in future control the camp in the event of an attack by guerrillas from outside. He prepared a report sent later to Warsaw Command and further to the West. On the night of 26 to 27 April 1943, he and two fellow prisoners fled the camp. He found shelter in New Cherry. He tried to organize an armed force that would attack Auschwitz and free the prisoners. The command of the district of AK in Krakow considered these plans unrealistic, then Pilecki went to Warsaw. He worked in Kedywa, participated in the Warsaw Uprising. After his fall, he was taken into German captivity. After the war ended, he found himself in Italy, where he became Officer 2. The Polish Corps of General Władysław Anders. In 1945 he returned to Poland, engaged in independence activities in the anti-communist underground. In May 1947, he was arrested by officials of the Ministry of Public Security. Subject to a brutal investigation, after a fake long trial, he was sentenced to death. [[♪ The bell ♪]] Shot dead on May 25, 1948, exactly 74 years ago. His body hasn't been found so far. In 1990, the Military Chamber of the Supreme Court acquitted rtm. Witold Pilecki. He is now considered an undisputed hero. He lived according to the motto: Love your native land, love your holy faith and tradition of your own people. Grow up to be men of honor, always faithful to the highest values you recognize to serve your whole life. We remember our hero. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u761	Thank you very much. And Mr Czesław Siekierski, Coalition Poland. Please make a statement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u762	Mrs. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! I would like once again to express my concern from the speaker of the Polish Sejm and once again to ask why the inclusion of Lotus in Orlen, according to the rulers, in order to create a strong fuel group, is in fact reduced to dissecting, eliminating a functioning, competitive company, which is Lotos. It is a transaction, an act detrimental to our economy, for energy security. The decision to connect Orlen to Lotus is made by the Polish government, which influences the strategy, the decisions of both these companies, which can jointly undertake various investment projects, carry out joint actions on the market. They don't necessarily have to be connected. Linking, the consolidation of Lotus with Orlen is under adverse conditions. The European Commission, in order to limit the monopoly of the market, requires the combination of sales to other external investors of the key Lotus assets. I'm just gonna name three kinds of acts. First of all, nine terminals, so-called. naftobaz, where strategic state reserves are deposited and even the construction of an import terminal, which is also subject to the sales requirement. The second group of assets to be sold is 80% of the fuel stations, i.e. 417 units, very modern. The buyer is the Hungarian company MOL. The third type of assets to be sold is 30% shares of modern refinery in Gdansk by Saudi Aramko. It is no secret that Saudi Aramko and Hungarian MOL have business ties with the Russian Federation. So let's consider whether, in such a situation, when we are at risk of security, two Polish companies, I do not know for what reason, are connected (the bell) actually to fulfill someone's dreams, to realize someone's philosophy of creating a large institution that could function and serve our economy well in the current formula. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u763	Thank you very much, sir. That concludes our parliamentary statements.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u764	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Ladies and gentlemen! Dear Moms! Tomorrow, May 26th, as we celebrate your holiday every year. I wish you a lot of health, a smile, good luck and a lot of optimism. It's because of you that we know what's good, and we know how to love. Happy birthday to you all!
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u765	Declaration on Black Sunday for Polish culture, i.e. the death of Jerzy Trela and Ignacy Gogolewski Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! 15 May 2022 is a black card for Polish film and theatre. At the age of 90, a theatre and film actor, director and screenwriter Ignacy Gogolewski died. On Sunday at the age of 80, Jerzy Trela, theatre and film actor, professor of the Krakow Academy of Theatre Arts, died. Jerzy Trela played in more than 70 films and 140 performances of the Television Theatre. He played with outstanding Polish directors, among others. Jerzy Kawalerowicz and Andrzej Wajda. On the other hand, Ignacy Gogolewski will remember the most from the role of Antek Borina in the series Boys. His achievements include dozens of film and theatre roles. He was a representative of the so-called. an old acting school. Hello to their memory.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u766	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Recently, a family foster care congress took place in Małopolska. It was an opportunity to discuss the current needs of foster families and foster homes. Many other issues related to the development of foster parenting have also been discussed. During the convention events that were also held in the Tarnów district, I had the opportunity to talk to parents who were caring for children outside of natural families. They talked about their expectations and problems they had to face, but first of all I could see how much heart, warmth, and good they passed on to their subjects. Family is the natural educational environment of the child, which is why it is so important that foster families are as many as possible. Children who, for various reasons, are not allowed to live in biological families are not allowed to go to the collective homes of the child, but to those normal families where they can count on individual interest and support. We parliamentarians should be involved in promoting foster parenting so that every child in our country can be granted a stay in a loving family if necessary. In order to create conditions for every child to feel safe, develop and teach them how to be a good person and a Polish. It is good that system changes are being prepared to make it easier to create new foster families and easier to work parents who choose to take under their roof without the love of their children. It is good that an amendment to the law on foster care is being prepared. We should work together to ensure that it is adopted as soon as possible and that it is as beneficial as possible for those who take up the role of foster parent. I would like to thank Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki very warmly for appreciating the importance of this issue through his personal presence at the final gala of the Congress in Wieliczka. I warmly thank the Minister for Family Affairs and Social Policy Marlena Maląg, as well as the Members of the Committee on Social Policy and Family Affairs, for their active participation in congress meetings with representatives of local governments, NGOs and foster families themselves. Thank you for visiting the Tarnów region in the Special School and Education Centre in Wierzchosławice. I thank the Local Government of the Małopolska Voivodship for organizing a family foster care congress.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u767	On the occasion of the anniversary of the 25th anniversary of the Silesian Agricultural Chamber, I would like to congratulate the board, all members and the staff of the Chamber. The Silesian Agricultural Chamber, which has been operating since 1997, has shaped agricultural policy in the area of the Silesian Voivodeship and actively participates in the implementation of all the most important demands for it. The problems of agriculture today are affecting a wider group of farmers. With the support of the State of the Chamber, they can count on assistance and a fair representation of their interests. These difficult tasks carried out by countries give hope to improve the existence of Polish hosts and all actors involved in the development of the agricultural market. Thank you for your commitment and your work so far. I wish you health, every success and satisfaction in the challenges you are facing. I would like to assure you of my continued support for agriculture and my willingness to cooperate on the proper development of the working conditions of agriculture. I wish you more fruitful years of work for the good of the home agricultural sector and strengthening the image of Polish food as a healthy and natural offer for consumers around the world.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-05-25-sejm-55-1.u768	I hereby order the meeting to be adjourned until 3 p.m. 9:00 a.m. Thank you very much. [[Adjournment at the meeting at 3 p.m. 0 min 14]]
