ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u1	I'm reopening the session. I ask the honourable senators to remind you that the deliberations are held both in a traditional manner and through means of distance agreement. Your senators in the Senate building, please check whether you all have disabled applications for remote participation in the sitting. Your senators taking part in the meeting remotely inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. 81 Senators voted And so many of them are currently attending the meeting. But this number, as you can see from the Minister, is still growing, so that... [[Voice from the room: And it will grow.]] And it's gonna grow. Thank you very much. We proceed to the consideration of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on honoring the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 on the 25th anniversary of its adoption. At this point, I would like to warmly welcome the Marshal Józef Zych, present at our meeting of the Second Sejm... [[Applause]] ... Mr Adam Struzik, Marshal of the Senate of the 3rd term of office... [[Applause]] ...and Mr Władysław Kosiniak-Kamysz, President of the Parliamentary Club Coalition Poland. [[Applause]] I also welcome Minister Marek Sawicki. [[Applause]] Thank you very much. I would remind you that the project was introduced by a group of senators and is included in print No. 667 and the committee's report In print No 667 S. I ask the rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to submit a report to the committee on the draft resolution.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u2	Thank you very much. My dear Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Gentlemen of the Marshals, who led the National Assembly, which adopted a constitution 25 years ago! Gentlemen, with President Władysław Kosiniak-Kamish at the head! Ladies and gentlemen! The Legislative Committee held its meeting on 22 March this year. It adopted a draft resolution on honoring the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 on the 25th anniversary of its adoption. The report is contained in print No 667 S, the original printing was number 667. There were 16 votes in favour, 10 senators abstained, one vote against. A few words about the committee meeting. First of all, we recognised at this meeting that this was an anniversary worth emphasising and despite the various differences that exist in the evaluation of this constitution, we recognised I think it's pretty unanimous. The purpose of this resolution is to highlight a certain historical fact and anniversary, which is precisely the dimension and historical aspect. For us who have initiated this resolution, it is also important that this constitution is an expression of a certain capacity that took place 25 years ago, the ability to reconcile different political paths, different traditions, different world views, which was expressed above all by the preamble that preceded this constitution. I think that a compromise that was made 25 years ago, sometimes difficult and sometimes easier, may be a model for us today to make compromises on important matters. I'm thinking about what's been going on with our eastern neighbours since February 24th. We could, for example, if it was going on. about the law on helping citizens of Ukraine or the law on defending the Homeland, over divisions to successfully process. I think that pointing out the fact that 25 years ago it was possible to make such a compromise may be a science for the future. At this point, I would like to thank the marshals of the then National Assembly for having carried out this constitution. I would like to thank the signatories of this draft resolution, the 12 ladies and gentlemen of the various Senate circles, and the Legislative Office, which submitted comments One was a substantive remark, the others were editorial remarks They have been adopted. An interesting element that is worth highlighting is that today there are 3 senators in our group who worked on the constitution at different stages. The first one is Marshal Marek Borowski, a member of the Constitutional Commission at the time, who brought this work to an end. He is the only active member of the Constitutional Commission in 1993 and 1997. Another one is Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz, a member of the National Assembly who accepted this constitution, and the next one is Senator Ujazdowski, who was a member of the Constitutional Commission in 1991 and 1993. As regards the course of the committee's meeting, the following were the following: Senator Gogacz, who drew attention to some repetitions in the text that we have removed, Senator Borusewicz, Mr Marshal, who just pointed out that he was a member of the National Assembly at the time, and Marshal Marek Borowski, who introduced us somewhat into the historical aspects of this whole resolution process and proposed a minor amendment of the editorial nature. Finally, you spoke with Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, who pointed out that the representation of a large part of the public opinion at that time, as a result of the electoral ordination which was then in operation, was outside the parliament, and that there were probably 40 votes against this constitution in the National Assembly. Finally, the amendment by Senator Kwiatkowski was tabled, which introduced the wording of the compromise in the Polish Parliament, so as to clarify where the compromise was concluded. Finally, it may be worth mentioning who of the current Members was a member of the National Assembly at the time. These were Marek Dyduch, Andrzej Grzyb, Mieczysław Kasprzak, Katarzyna Piekarska, Marek Sawicki, Wiesław Szczepański, Iwona Śledzińska-Katarasińska and Tadeusz Tomaszewski. So much for my report, Mr. Marshal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur of the committee. [[Sorry, I have to read the text of this draft resolution.]] You don't have to do anything, senator. [[But it would be good if I read it, so if you'd allow the marshal...]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u4	Okay, I'll read it then. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on honoring the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 on the 25th anniversary of its adoption. Resolution of 2 April 1997 by the National Assembly and approval of 25 May 1997 In the referendum of the national Constitution of the Republic of Poland it became a major political and historical event and strengthened the foundations of the Polish system transformation. It is a milestone in the history of our nationhood. It took seven years to work on the Constitution. During them there were disputes, but the will to compromise and the spirit of shared responsibility for the good of the Republic prevailed in the Polish Parliament. The Constitution of 2 April 1997 refers to the thousand-year history of the Polish nation, to its identity and Christian tradition, to the struggle for freedom and sovereignty of the Polish State. It expresses the continuity of our statehood, reconciling the Polish national tradition with the challenges of modern times. It guarantees the universal values of the democratic rule of law, democratic governance and consolidates the principles of division, balance and cooperation between authorities. It strengthens the independence of the courts and the independence of the judges. It ensures the development of a market economy while guaranteeing the necessary level of social security. Finally, it contains a broad catalogue of freedoms and human and citizen rights, sets out their scope and a mechanism of protection consistent with the highest standards set out in international acts of a global and European nature. The Constitution in force is an expression of respect for the principle of constitutionalism and refers to the relevant democratic states to the principles of legalism, decentralisation of public authority, self-government, respect for international law, pluralism and guarantees of minority rights. It is the Constitution of the entire Polish Nation, rightly called the Constitution of the political compromise, drawing from the Constitution on 3 May 1791. Worshiping the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of 2 April 1997, the Senate of the Republic of Poland expresses its appreciation and thanks to everyone who worked on it and contributed to its adoption. The Senate's special thanks are addressed to the members of the National Assembly, who, when representing various political groups, recognised that the welfare of the Homeland, freedom, democracy, the rule of law and human rights are the overriding values determining the identity of the Republic of Poland. The resolution is published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Poland. I'm very sorry, Mr. Marshal, for the oversight. [[We mercifully forgive, so that...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u5	At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur's senator and, at the same time, to the authorised representative of the applicants. Are there any questions? No. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of you have signed up... [[There you are, you're...]] [[Voice from the room: There it is, there it is.]] Oh, Mr. Senator... He didn't sign up, but now he's checking in. Then you're Senator Czerwinski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Guests are gathered! Such an important resolution should, in my opinion, meet with a commentary, because this project, among others. the committee meeting was not adopted unanimously. That is why we point out some shortcomings, some shortcomings related to the content of this draft resolution. First line. I am surprised why 2 people, who in a sense represent the memory of the institution, do not sign the text from print No 667, talking about history, i.e. Mr. Marshal Borusewicz and Mr. Marshal Borowski. We would certainly learn more if the marshals presented us not only the naked content, but also the history of adoption, the causes and the consequences. Second point: the text of the proposed resolution itself. Ladies and gentlemen, I have always felt that the Senate's resolution should be about something important. And in my opinion, this resolution is necessary because 25 years is an important anniversary. We do not know if we will live to see the 50th anniversary of this constitution. But in such an important text, it is all the more important to weigh every word. First of all, what do we really worship? The title shows that we worship the Constitution of the Republic of Poland, this act, the content of this act. In turn, from the last paragraph, actually the first on page two, it appears that we are celebrating the twenty-fifth anniversary of the Constitution. And even more so, we thank and respect the members of the National Assembly. So we worship the members of the National Assembly who passed this constitution. These are some sort of inconsistencies, but over them we could move on to the agenda if we continued with the text of the draft resolution. That's what we're talking about, at least I didn't find any major errors, shortcomings and misconceptions. And when you tell the truth, you have to tell the whole truth. The Constitution is called the Constitution of the political compromise. That's the same thing that's been said... Special thanks to those who, when representing different political groups, adopted this constitution I'm cutting it short here. Was that true? I would like to draw your attention to the fact that the Parliament of the term of office in which this constitution was adopted was exceptionally, extremely unrepresentable, perhaps most of all, not to mention, of course, the contract. 35% the voters who then voted had no representatives in the Lower House. It's not like everyone's making this constitution. This part was simply deprived of that possibility. That's not enough. It just happened that the part that didn't get into the Sejm. I will be silent here, whose faults and perversions were in a sense 1 political block, was clearly politically defined. In fact, there were groups in the Seym who were the successors of what was happening before the year of the breakthrough, i.e. before 1989, and they were the ones who passed the constitution. This constitution is really the last act of a certain political process that began with the Round Table and ended legally with the Constitution. What was the point of this trial? This process was aimed at Petrifying the relations of that time, that is what we now commonly call the Third Common Thing, Petrification, that is, strengthening, solidifying these relations. That has to be taken into account. I'm not talking about the fact that there was no unanimity at the time of the adoption. This small part of the clubs that then voted and were, let's call it contractually, on the right side of the political scene, voted against. This is not the constitution of all the voters back then. The representativeness of this Sejm... I'm not talking about the Senate because there are majority elections and by nature the 2 largest groups take the majority. In that Senate, in Senate III of the term of office, because then it was the Second Sejm of the term of office, and the Third Senate of the term of office, 75% They were SLD and PSL senators. Ladies and gentlemen, it is important to tell the truth, who adopted this constitution, for what purpose, and what role it played afterwards. We shouldn't lie to history. Another issue is how this constitution was applied in practice, and yet another thing, for example. lacks due to such and not another authorship of the Constitution. I therefore make amendments. I propose to replace the text that, in my opinion, lies about reality, with the following text, i.e. the title and content of the resolution shall be amended as follows. The resolution of the Senate of the Republic of Poland on the 25th anniversary of the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. On 2 April 1997 the National Assembly adopted the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. It was adopted by the Nation in a constitutional referendum on 25 May 1997, signed by the President of the Republic of Poland on 16 July 1997. It has been in force since 17 October 1997. The text of the basic law bears the stigma of the parliamentary majority which passed it. The composition of the Second Sejm of the term of office (1993 and 1997) was highly unrepresentable for the political views of the then society and a range of electoral committees taking part in the 1993 elections. Around 35% of voters did not have their representatives in the Lower House, the electoral committees to which they cast their vote did not receive a mandate as a result of not exceeding the electoral thresholds. In addition, it is important to add the natural majority elections to the Higher Chamber over the representativeness of the number of seats received by the electoral committees with a strong support of the Senate in the third term of office (1993-1997) and the first two committees received nearly 3/4 of the Senate mandates. As a result, the parliamentary majority adopting the Constitution in force consisted mainly of the Democratic Left Alliance and the Polish People's Party, i.e. from the parties whose roots were prior to the turn of 1989, and from the Democratic Union and the Labour Union close to them. The main objective of the Constitution on 2 April 1997 has therefore become the Petrification of the social and political structure created in the so-called. III of the Republic by agreement and cooperation between the successors of the PZPR, its coalitioners and reformers before 1989. It can be shown that the adoption of the Constitution was the final act, the legal completion of the Round Table. Made by a tape throw, just before the end of the parliamentary term under the patronage of the President of the Republic of Poland, from the SLD. The society, indoctrinated by the then total government propaganda, mostly unaware of the operation carried out over it, has by a small majority approved the new basic law in the constitutional referendum. And like that... [[Timer signal]] ...finalized the transition with a dry foot from a deep... [[Timer signal]] ...communes for controlled democracy. [[Timer signal]] According to the WW. the purpose of the text of the Constitution is to protect the old system... [[Ten minutes, Mr. Senator.]] Can I finish my paragraph? [[Voice from the room: No!]] [[There you go.]] But it lacks the obvious, desirable and necessary institutions during the breakthrough, e.g. decommunization, vetting, vetting judges, reclaiming property on which the communist nomenclature was held, protecting the privatized for the priceless national property, etc. Another issue is how the Constitution of 2 April is currently particularly abused by the so-called. A total opposition to political warfare... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[The voice from the hall: No, no, it's just funny...]] ...with a democratically elected parliamentary majority and its elected government. Let's name here, among other things.: undermining uniformity... [[But time, Mr. Marshal...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u7	Mr. Senator, there was supposed to be one paragraph. You're making an amendment. There you go. [[If you're afraid of the truth...]] No, we're not scared... [[The voice from the hall: He's scaring us...]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] No, we're not afraid of the truth. [[Voice from the room: No, on the contrary.]] [[Applause]] No one can get the Senate to talk like Senator Czerwiński. I'd like to apologize to our guests because the script of this point was a little different... But those are the laws of parliamentarians. The floor will be taken by Marshal Michael Kaminski. [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u8	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I think that the fact that Senator Czerwiński spoke is unfortunately a good illustration of the moods that prevail on the Polish political stage. But it seems to me that many of us, on different sides in our Senate sitting, in the face of what's going on around our country, have tried And I'd like us to try it together. To try today to find what we Poles have in common, not what we Poles have in common. [[Voice from the room: Then why this resolution?]] I am most deeply convinced, ladies and gentlemen of the Law and Justice Senators, that we certainly still have much more in common than we do. And if today we wanted to present this draft resolution as a coalition of Poland And thank you very much for this to Senator Libicki and our colleagues. This is what we wanted to do precisely because we are accompanied by the philosophy of difficult, very difficult, but nevertheless dialogue between us Poles. That's why we're here. That's why we're talking about ourselves as a center. Because the essence of the center is to try to talk and understand everyone. Today Poland really needs us to try to understand each other. I understand a large part of the Senator's emotions here, and I also remember what emotions were then in Poland. And it is worth remembering why people like me then voted against this constitution in a referendum. Many people today in this House, on different sides, were then in political groups that were against this constitution. And perhaps it is worth recalling what we were afraid of as what this constitution was supposed to lead to. One of the radio stations, then and today very active, announced the future of Poland under the rule of this constitution. One of the fundamental charges against this constitution was that it is anti-Catholic and aimed at the protection of life. I would like to say that it is under this constitution that Poland today has the most restrictive anti-abortion law in the whole Western world. It was said that this constitution would limit our independence, that Euroregions would tear Poland from the inside. I mean, nothing like that ever happened. Poland has changed beyond recognition since 1997, that is, for 25 years now, since it adopted this constitution. Surely, in this change, this imperfect constitution also has its share. And in this change they also played a better role in this House, on very different sides of this room, because we all built, as we could, the Republic. Today, on the days when the order of the world in which we built this Republic together changes in front of our eyes, when this order is threatened, it is worth it that we I'll repeat, they were looking for what we had in common. And we're definitely connected. I am absolutely convinced of this love and respect for our country. And what sets out the framework for our functioning in this country is our constitution. If there's a time when we think we need to change it, then of course we're going to change it. But today it is our constitution, and that is why it must be respected. And it is worth respecting the effort that was put in and then, and later, during the entire 25 years of building our Poland. Because we don't have another, we don't have another, and the one we have, we have to protect together. Together, not against each other. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u9	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Senator Kazimierz Michał Ujazdowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u10	Mr. Marshal! We hoped that we would simply remain with the historical expression of respect for the work of those who worked and led to the adoption of the Constitution. Well, that's not how it happened. But first of all, I want to say that a mature political community must always respect its fundamental law. When he withdraws from it, he is degraded at his own request. Therefore, arguments that suggest that the constitution is not legit should not be used. In fact, such a conclusion could be drawn from what we heard here at the beginning of the discussion: it is not legitimized because it comes from a minority verdict. Yes? But no mature person questioned the legality of this constitution, nor was it challenged by the political right who won the elections in 1997 - the Action of Election Solidarity. And it should be said that the 1997 Constitution has a stronger legitimacy today than when it was adopted. This was done through rigorous application by 2015 of this constitution by changing political entities, through the implementation of reforms within this constitution, such as the great self-government reform of 1998, through the resolution of the Church's relationship model The State and the signature of the concordat, which would have been impossible if not for this constitution and what happened in the autumn of 1997, through its universal and favourable application. Please note that even the draft revision of the Constitution is an expression of respect for the Constitution. I myself have proposed a revision of the Constitution several times. But those who propose a revision of the constitution respect the constitution. It is not respected by those who carry out it outside the Constitution. Those who submit a revision of the constitution respect the constitution. And this constitution has once been revised in the case of European temporary detention, consent to European temporary detention. The importance and respect of this Constitution are the drafts for its revision, and the absolute minimum of the political community is respect for constitutional rules. We weren't gonna go back or not go into the contemporary debate, so I'm gonna be very economical about it, too, but I'm gonna say something. At a time when we have such extraordinary challenges threatening the security of Poland and Eastern Europe, one of the essential elements of the consolidation of the national community is respect for the fundamental law. I hope that we will return to such times when Poland will be a model of protection and promotion of individual rights on the scale of Europe, because it is a very strong asset of the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u11	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Frost will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u12	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! What raised some doubts on our part? If a historical resolution is adopted That's what Senator Czerwiński said. It is necessary to refer to the truth, to the truth from the time when this constitution was passed. I remember, because I am a member of the Legislative Committee, that we sometimes make historical resolutions about what happened 200, 300 years ago, and then many senators ask for details. And as I read in one paragraph of this draft resolution that this constitution is called the constitution of compromise... It's just not true. In English, it's just not true. I'm just gonna say one thing. Senator Czerwiński spoke here about the elections, about the composition of Parliament at the time, in the 1993-1997 term, but one thing that has only been signalled by Senator Czerwiński has yet to be said very strongly, and is perhaps the most important, most important thing. This constitution was adopted in a referendum where attendance was 42%. And behind that constitution. At 42% turnout Only 53% voted society. 46% society at that time, in 1997 was against this constitution. This constitution was supported little more than 6 million citizens for about 25 million people with electoral rights at the time. And it's not like this constitution shared politicians. Well, that was the parliament. The committee said it wasn't the fault... Well, some mistakes were made, and 75% were made. Parliament were members of two camps, the Left and the PSL. But this constitution, at the time of its adoption, divided the Polish society very strongly. [[Voice from the room: How do you know that?]] Well, from the results of the referendum, Mr. Senator. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]] [[Talking in the O.R.]] Yes, from the results of the referendum. 46% The voters in 1997 were against this constitution. Forty... [[Voice from the room: Isn't that enough?]] Ma'am, I'll answer... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[We don't do polemics. You're speaking, Mr. Frost.]] Ma'am, Senator, I will remind you because this is not clear data: 6 million 396 thousand Poles voted in favour of the constitution, and against the constitution 5 million 570 thousand round about 25 million eligible! So that's the constitution that backed it. not more than 20% of eligible Poles and Poles. Not much more than 20%. If you do a historical resolution, where you mix it up, that's what Senator Czerwiński said, and how it was adopted, and what role it played, and how we see it today, then this element needs to be raised, too, for historical honesty. Senator, you can open Google and google it. What I've presented to you is not classified information. You ask me how many people voted against, who voted against. The Poles voted against! Just as some Poles voted in favour. But relatively, it's almost 80%. Either it didn't go to the election or it voted against this constitution. This, too, is worth mentioning, since you always refer to democracy in this way, to the will of the people. There were divisions back then. As I read, it was a constitution of national compromise when it was adopted... It wasn't a national compromise constitution. The way we see her today, whether she's proven herself or not... Of course, there are positive things in this constitution and negative things. One of the things I think that didn't come to Mr. Marshal Borowski's mind, is that now this constitution protects... hinders the introduction of the euro. If there was no constitutional threshold and there was a gold in the national currency, perhaps some would have introduced the euro and we would have some economic problems. So she's got her positives and she's got her negatives, right? But if we adopt a historical resolution, it would be worth saying first of all, what then, at the time of adoption, the controversy aroused, not in politics, although politicians are also the emanation of the nation, but in the Polish society. And I think the result of the referendum here is the biggest, because such verbal, proof of how many people were against this constitution, how many had doubts. It's not just what the marshal said it was some radio station and so on, but it's just that millions of Poles said they didn't like this constitution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u13	Thank you very much. Mr. Senator, I usually hold back from commenting, but since you're juggling numbers like this, I'll remind you that in this election the opposition got 900,000 votes more than the United Right, but since the constitution has D'Hondt's method, you have the majority. It's just about juggling with numbers. [[Applause]] Senator Bosacki will speak. [[Mr. Marshal, because I've been mentioned by name, I have one question.]] [[Voice from the room: But into the microphone.]] Into the microphone, Mr. Marshal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u14	Since Senator Frost was gracious to acknowledge the merit of this constitution that she had not spoken of the euro, I kindly inform you that, when this constitution was passed, the euro had not yet been adopted. Thank you. [[Joy in the Chamber]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u15	Senator Bosacki. [[...corrected.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u16	Mr. Marshal, since we're talking about correction, I'm going to say that Marshal Borowski didn't correct any of my statements. I only said it in this context... [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Joy in the Chamber]] Of course not, I just said that in this context... I mean. that from my point of view this constitution has e.g. such an asset that does not allow the introduction of the euro. Of course, Mr. Borowski probably didn't anticipate that there would be a euro, because if he had, he'd probably have written it in. That's it. Mr. Marshal, since you're looking so rigorously at the correction, I'm gonna say that corrections are meant to serve the point that someone said the wrong thing and... Mr. Borowski didn't...
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u17	You've got time to make amends. Thank you very much. [[I was correcting the untrue...]] Senator Bosacki. [[Voice from the room: Discreditation.]] [[Voice from the room: Discreditation and that's it.]] Calm down, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u18	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I am sadly listening to this discussion, because I believe that a resolution celebrating the twenty-fiveth adoption of the highest law of the Republic should be voted out by the High House without such rhetorical appearances as we have just heard from the right side of the room. [[Voice from the room: And we hear.]] Especially since many false words have been said here. It is not, of course, true that the constitution was adopted in Parliament and subsequently approved in a national referendum in a non-representative or non-democratic manner. On the contrary, it was legally passed by those whom the nation had chosen and subsequently approved the act. It is not, of course, true that the Constitution of the Brightest Republic of Poland Petrifies communist order before 1989, as we have heard here. Well, that's so absurd, which I don't think you need to attack properly. Just go out on the street and see what Poland looks like in 2022, and remember if someone has a good memory and remembers What she looked like until 1989. So we had to do in the speech of Senator Czerwiński, which unfortunately supported by applause of the right part of the room, not with the description of reality or historical truth, but with the description of the projection of Senator Czerwiński on this reality. On behalf of the Civic Coalition Club, I would like to thank once again those who contributed to the establishment of the highest law of the Republic who worked for 7 years on the draft constitution. I would like to thank the Marshals of Zych and Struzik. I would like to thank Marshal Borowski, those who voted on this constitution at the time and who are still sitting in this House, that is, Senator Ujazdowski and Senator Marshal Borusewicz, and all those who then contributed to the adoption of this constitution. Naturally we are against the absurd, in our opinion, amendment by Senator Czerwiński and we will support the original project presented by Senator Libicki, whom I cordially thank for his presentation. And thank you for allowing me to sign it. To conclude, I would like to dedicate to those who, in this Chamber, were absurdly attacking the Constitution in force in the Republic of Poland, the end of its preamble, one of the most beautiful political texts in the history of the Republic of Poland. In our sense of responsibility to God or to our conscience, we establish the Constitution of the Republic of Poland as fundamental rights for the state based on respect for freedom and justice, cooperation between authorities, social dialogue and the principle of subsidiarity strengthening the powers of citizens and their communities. All those who, for the sake of the Third Republic, will apply this constitution, we call on them to do so by maintaining the natural dignity of man, his right to freedom and his duty to solidarity with others, and to respect these principles they have as an unshakable basis for the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u19	Thank you very much, Senator. [[Excuse me, Mr. Marshal...]] Senator Aleksander Pociej will speak. I'm not giving the floor because you weren't mentioned by name, and we're not gonna... [[When I wasn't?]] [[Voice from the room: Three times.]] I listened very carefully to Senator Bosacki. He was addressing those who, a few dozen minutes ago... [[Voice from the room: It's not the same.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u20	Thank you. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Very briefly. I have to answer that from the bottom of a false statistical juggling. Mr. Marshal partly beat me to it. I would like to remind you that, in the previous term, when your group got thirty-six percent at fifty, you changed the non-constitutional constitution because this is what the gmeranism in the rule of law brought about. And that is why I can tell you with a clear conscience after what you have said, that the blessed one who has nothing to say does not put it into words. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u21	Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u22	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! Here I would like to thank 12 million 139,000 790 people who took part in the constitutional referendum and consciously voted in this referendum. For or against the adoption of the Constitution. The biggest scandal in the project that Senator Czerwiński reported is a passage that says: a society indoctrinated by the then total government propaganda, mostly unaware of the operations carried out over it, with a small majority of votes approved the new basic law. Ladies and gentlemen, it is deeply hurting, unfair and disgraceful to those millions of Poles who took part in this referendum and voted in line with their views. This project could be supported or rejected. The insulting of these people today and saying that they were the subject of an unwitting operation performed on them should never take place in the Polish Parliament. [[Applause]] I hope and believe that the author of these shameful words will apologize to the millions of Poles who took part in this referendum. The views we might have different views of were the people behind this project, the people opposed to this project. But in accordance with the procedures in force in Poland, this constitution was adopted in a referendum, which is a general vote, the closest ideal of direct democracy, in which all eligible citizens can participate. What kind of signal do we want to send them today, what do we want to tell them? That they are unconscious, manipulated, and that they take part in the vote, I understand, in an unconscious way about their decisions? Such words in the Polish Parliament should never fall. I apologize to all those who may feel touched by these words. I respect your choice 25 years ago and I am convinced, Dear Polish Citizens, that you have made this choice according to your views and not being manipulated. You made that decision on your own. Thank you for taking part in this vote. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u23	Thank you very much. Senator Bogdan Klich will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u24	There are moments in the history of every nation that are worth reminding and to be proud of. In my opinion, such a moment is the adoption of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland in 1997. Who would we be today if it wasn't for the act that set up the system of our country? What would we do today if we did not have this weapon against attacks on democratic order, based on the freedom that has occurred regularly from this side of the room in recent years? What would a Polish citizen do today if he could not directly appeal to constitutional rules guaranteeing every Pole and every Polish citizen's full civil rights, including the right to an independent court, which is the right to an independent court by the authority holding the highest offices since 2015 gradually received from Poles? The Constitution is the weapon of freedom. This constitution is a constitution of tolerance, openness to another human being. This constitution makes it possible in Poland, according to the preamble, there is a place for each of them and one who has his values based on his faith and one who, from other sources, brings out a system of values that he considers appropriate. It is a constitution that is based on the principle of checks and balances established in Europe. It is a constitution which is based on the Monteskiusian principle of separation between the legislative, executive and judicial authorities. It is a constitution giving Poles all those rights which are guaranteed in other constitutions, provided that they are the constitutions of Western democracy. This constitution gives Poles the chance to appeal to the rights and freedoms of the third category, and therefore not only human rights, not only civil liberties but also social and economic rights. This constitution establishes a system order in Poland, which may not always be effective, for example. in the case of division of competences in terms of defence, between the President of the Republic and the Council of Ministers, but thanks to which Poland has been operating as a rule of law for more than 2 decades. This constitution enters Poland into an international order based on procedures and institutions, not on the will of the current ruler. It is not the will of any despot, it is not the will of any autocrat, but it is the rules of this constitution and procedures that determine how the Polish state works. Why am I talking about all this? Because, of course, there is a country that does not have a constitution, it is Britain, but it is based on a centuries-old legal order, which is treated on an equal footing with fundamental laws in other countries. And finally, two words about the mode. The Constitution of 3 May, which we boast about, the Constitution of 3 May, which we celebrate and celebrate, was adopted as a result of a coup d'état carried out in a dramatic situation for the Polish state in the 18th century. And this constitution was adopted by a majority of 53% the votes of all those who wanted to take part in the referendum. Can one imagine a more democratic procedure than a procedure in which the entire National Assembly takes a decision and more than 450 members of the National Assembly are in favour of this constitution, and only a few dozen against a procedure in which it is later subjected to a national referendum and, in this national referendum, more than half of the citizens are in favour of it? Can you imagine a more democratic procedure? So let all those who challenge this procedure adopted at that time for establishing the Constitution know that they issue themselves a certificate and advocate non-democratic solutions, whose intention is probably that they could easily further undermine the Constitution of the Republic of Poland. However, we, people who treat the constitution as weapons, as a tool for stabilising the Polish state, will never agree to this. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u25	Thank you very much. Senator Sewerinski will speak.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u26	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I agree with some of the praises of this constitution because it has undoubted advantages. First of all, I agree that the preamble is a very important, uplifting and appropriate text. In this preamble each Pole can find expressed respect for himself. It can be said that specific legislation, concrete solutions bring us closer to a constitution that everyone could say is perfect in terms of legal design and respect for principles, human rights and other important principles. But we could also find rules that are criticised and need to be improved. Take, for example. a referendum which shall be opened at the request of the President. How would it be carried out? We had this example not so long ago. The Constitution states that the outcome of the referendum is binding if a certain majority of the positive responses are reached. But to whom is it binding? For the president who's about to take the initiative to change the constitution or for the parliamentarians? Meanwhile, there is a second part of the constitution, in which it is written, how the constitution changes. It does not change in the presidential referendum mode, on the basis of the result of this referendum, no draft constitution is written. The Constitution is changing in a constitutional manner, not through a referendum. There is a clear lack of synchronisation between what is said about the referendum and what is said about how the constitution changes. Another lack that bothers us, which illustrates various conflicts, different interpretation sports, is the lack of the required rules on the role of European law. It's all on one rule, on an article. 94, and subject to various interpretations. There have been attempts to correct this, but they have not been successfully completed. So I think we're on the right track to get out of this constitution, which was passed 25 years ago, to bring out a constitution that is better, even more operational, one that will arouse the full respect of the citizens. Therefore, I think that instead of vagina rhetoric on the twenty-fiveth anniversary of this constitution, we should prepare a draft to improve the constitution, which could initiate at least a nationwide discussion on the improvement of the constitution. And that would be an appropriate response, which would both give justice to the merits of this constitution, and would take into account that the shortcomings that are in this constitution need to be addressed. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u27	Thank you very much, Senator. Senator Bogucki will speak. I'm guessing remotely. [[Mr. Marshal, can you hear me?]] I can hear you. [[Voice from the room: But you can't see.]] Except you can't see.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u28	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! High Senate! They provoked me to speak out to the Senators of the Civic Coalition. I admit that I voted against this constitution... [[Disruption during the speech]] [[Mr. Senator, I'm sorry to say that your statement is not understandable. Stop the transmission all the time, try again...]] I'll try to plug in... [[Turn off the image, then you can hear better.]] Hello? I'm gonna try and hook up the headphones. Is it better now? [[No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, ……]] Sure, I've got it. Is it better now? [[Now we hear you well.]] Mr. Marshal, I'm in Białowieża, so maybe this distance is disturbing. I was going to attend the celebrations of unveiling the monument of the Sibiraks, but of course the duties and deliberations of the Senate are the most important. I decided to speak because I was provoked by some of the Senators of the Civic Coalition. I admit I voted against this constitution. There's probably a lot of people in the room who behaved the same way. And there are those who voted in favour of the constitution. Today, in retrospect, we probably have different feelings about whether we voted correctly at the time. But how far from the creators of the Civic Platform and the creators of the PO-PiS... ♪ 'Cause I'm ♪ I co-created it. It wasn't an organization, but it was a polling list of PO-PiS. After a while, these senators left, who today say it was such an excellent constitution. And yet we then formed new groups to oppose the power of that time, at least it seemed to me that The post-communist, round-table arrangement in Poland, that political arrangement. How far have you gone, Mr. Bosacki, Mr. Kwiatkowski, from those ideas which it seemed to us in Law and Justice and to you in the Civic Platform? Because when someone uses such arguments: what Poland looks like today, and what it looked like in 1989... I remember when Gierek said the same thing when Jaruzelski said the same thing: well, after all, Poland has changed since 1945, well, it is not so bad in this Poland. You're repeating the words of those politicians you used to fight. As by the Round Table, and then the constitution of these records took place a looting sale of national assets, also into Russian hands. We already know today how much it was a mistake... In my voivodship was Polmos Białystok, until recently owned by a Russian company, recently bought this Polish-German capital. There are many such examples. If you say you have to worship every constitution, because this is the most important act in the history of the nation, then why don't you make a resolution on July 22nd? Because there will also be a round anniversary, probably the 70th anniversary of the 1952 Constitution. When I became a doorman in 1990 in my small village, in a small village... Communists were stupid enough to name two streets identical, one called 22 July, the other called the July Manifesto. I said at the council session that either we will call the third Christmas Rebirth of Poland, or we will blow up 2 names, which were the names of shame, not the reason for boasting. There are definitely many positive provisions in this constitution. You can find those that are records It's not exactly appropriate. But here we are talking about commemorating the creators of this constitution. I the SLD-PSL coalition worship I have no intention of. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u29	Thank you very much. [[About the formal...]] About the formal... Senator Pociej and Marshal Kaminski came forward first and then Marshal Borowski. [[I volunteered to speak, but first of all, the formal issues...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u30	Mr. Marshal, I'm sorry about the formality. It seems to me, however, that we need to react in a situation where words are spoken... [[Disgusting.]] ...passing the measure of civilized debate. Comparing... [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]] ...the Constitution of the Republic adopted by the free Sejm and the free Senate by Act 22 of July is proof of either political vileness or complete historical ignorance. In my opinion, it is important to react in such situations. If Mr. Bogucki is notorious... [[Senator.]] Senator, yes, I'm sorry. If Senator Bogucki has a record of using such terms, it is important to refer this matter to the ethics committee because we should take care of the culture of our dialogue. And let me repeat: comparing the Polish People's Republic to free Poland is a comparison as disgraceful as comparing the USSR to the European Union, simply.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u31	Mr. Marshal, each of us is giving a witness first and foremost. But of course, formal steps can be taken if any of you so agree. Mr. Senator Borowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u32	Mr. Marshal, at the appropriate point in the Rules of Procedure, I request that the list of speakers be closed.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u33	There's been a motion... If I do not hear the objection, I will consider the motion to be accepted, and I will close the list of speakers.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u34	No, no, no, no, no, Objection. [[I signed up, but I think the quieter the coffin, the better, so...]] [[Exhibitions in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u35	Mr. Marshal stands by your objection? Well, then we have to call a vote. [[Voice from the room: Yes, sir.]] Who's in favor of closing the list of speakers? Press the button and raise your hand. Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 76 senators voted, 48 were in favour of closing the list of speakers, 24 against, 4 abstentions. [[Voting No 2]] The list of speakers has been closed. At the moment, Senator Pup was still enrolled, as far as I'm concerned, and as the last Senator Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u36	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Indeed, we are in an exceptional situation today, in a difficult situation, where, as we have already come from this pulpit, national unity is required, joint action, which we have even expressed in the law over the defence of our country. Today we have started a debate on the 25th anniversary of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland and today many comments have been made from this speaker, many, you can say, personal reflections on this particular issue. One of these comments is that we created a compromise 25 years ago, which contributed to the adoption of this law. There were also many words about the truth that our public, social life should be built on the truth. And indeed, 20 centuries ago, significant words were uttered, perhaps most important in the history of mankind, which many of us will soon hear in our churches. Namely, I was born for this, and came into the world to bear witness to the truth. And if we were building our civilization based on a lie today, there wouldn't be any space flights today, there wouldn't be any modern cars today. If there was no dialogue, no tolerance, there would probably be no progress in medicine, there would be various types of ridiculous or pathological or even anti-development situations. Unfortunately, whether or not we build this civilization, based above all on the truth, and this truth is often lacking in public space. Today we are dealing with this subject and this problem we are dealing with. Senator Czerwiński proposed a draft new resolution and nothing stands in the way, you can say, calmly over this project. You know, and nobody's gonna deny that the ZSL or later the PSL... PSL, the present Left, is derived from the ZSL or practically directly from the PZPR, from the left-wing environments, which today can be said At that time, as if they were conducive to cooperation with the Soviet Union, the system was admired. Today, many of these people sit in parliament and are tolerated, respected. I am glad that these people have undergone such a transformation that allows them to function in this reality, do not feel lied, do not feel practically stigmatized. I would also like words to come from this speaker, which are very important, and they fall, only the question whether they are understandable to those who speak them. Namely, we are talking here about tolerance, about democracy. Only that when the Law and Justice, when my group refers to the principles of democracy, to the sovereign which is a nation, and benefits, one can say, from those privileges and obligations which the Constitution gives, we suddenly hear that the Committee for Democracy Defence is being set up, that the PiS is breaking democracy, that the Constitutional Tribunal is ridiculed. I ask: aren't those people who today are so fiercely defending this resolution, one can say, across, with themselves, with the truth that should affect them? Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, let us consider a little reflection. An amendment has been tabled, there is a chance to work on this amendment. Professor Seweryński, whom I incredibly value as a professor, as a person, as a person who has empathy, kindness and with such kindness meets us all, very elegantly and very delicately, with proper sensitivity he pointed to the problem, one can say, shortcomings in the constitution. And it would be good, my dear High Izbo, that we hear the Professor's voice, I stress that, and to think whether today we should consider how to develop such elements of the constitution that will serve the further development of the Republic of Poland, will allow us to remove the shortcomings from this constitution and further in a proper manner, together to create our community, whose name is the Republic of Poland. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u37	Thank you very much, Senator. You will be the last, remotely, to speak with Senator Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u38	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I was not going to speak on this matter, but I would like to make it clear that as a very young man in the 1980s I was associated with the Confederation of Independent Poland, with an anti-communist movement. Even then, at that time, I was experiencing the graces of power, because I was repeatedly detained and arrested, and then, when the authors of today's Constitution proposed its final form, I voted against this constitution in a referendum. And I want to make it clear that I was wrong. I would like to say that I thank those people who had the courage to build this project, run it through a democratic parliament and then evaluate the Poles who voted and mostly approved the Constitution that was in force today. I want to say that they were right, they were simply right, because this constitution has contributed to the fact that over the last years Poland has had a stable opportunity to develop. Democratic governments respected and fully respected the principles of the Constitution. For years, no one dared to break those rules that were well described there. In this constitution there is a reference to God, and there are also records that speak quite unambiguously about it since we have the right to live. I am a little surprised that the PiS senators are trying today to question the constitution, which in such a dimension is one of the more conservative in Europe today. On the place of these senators, I would absolutely support the draft resolution prepared by Senator Libicki. Finally, I would like to thank all the authors and people who contributed to this constitution once again. I also want to make it clear: the government is for this, the public authority is for the sake of upholding the Constitution. If public authority, the government is breaking the constitution, then citizens have the right to protest. That's what's been going on these past few years. The current government is indeed breaking the constitution, the current parliamentary majority is breaking the constitution and may be bothering you, but this does not change the fact that over the past twenty years all governments have respected the constitution's provisions with great respect, and it does not matter whether they were right-wing or left-wing governments, everyone has without exception respected the provisions of this highest act, the most important law in Poland. Therefore, I am proposing to adopt this resolution without any amendments, because it is not worth discussing amendments that distort the meaning, the idea behind the authors of the resolution. Thank you very much. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u39	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. For the record, the Senators of Sweden and Szejnfeld have made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. In view of the fact that legislative proposals have been submitted, the Senate is directing the draft resolution to the Legislative Commission. I would like to ask for a deadline for the committee to prepare an additional report so that we can carry out a third reading at this Senate meeting immediately after the end of the break. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll find the Senate has accepted the motion. Here's the announcement.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u40	High Senate! The meeting of the Legislative Commission on the examination of proposals for a draft resolution on the celebration of the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 on the 25th anniversary of its adoption will be held in room 176 10 minutes after the announcement of the break. Immediately after the end of the meeting of the Legislative Commission, the Senate will resume its meeting and vote on the laws that have been adopted so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u41	All the votes will be taken as soon as they are returned to the sitting room, after the work of the committee has been completed and the report has been drawn up. We will then proceed with the extension of the agenda, as I told you yesterday, for urgent parliamentary laws. Dismissed until 11:45 p.m. [[Adjournment in the sitting from 11 minutes 21 to 12 minutes 18]] We return to the discussion of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft resolution on honoring the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 on the 25th anniversary of its adoption. Following the second reading of the draft resolution, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and obliged the committee to submit an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 667 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u42	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The Legislative Commission was sitting today. There were 10 votes against Senator Czerwiński's motion, 16 votes against Senator Czerwiński's motion, no abstentions. The Commission recommends rejecting this proposal.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u43	Thank you very much. I ask the minority rapporteur of the Legislative Commission, Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, to present proposals supported by a minority of committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u44	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I would ask for a vote in favour of a proposal supported by a minority for a simple reason. In the name of historical truth. I know that this truth may be in some moments, I would call it incriminating, but it will protect itself. To the historical truth.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u45	At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? No. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text. Print No 667 X and then over the adoption of the project, Print No 667 S, as amended, if amendments are accepted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 37 for, 50 against, 9 senators abstained. [[Voting No 3]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 95 senators voted, 38 in favour, 48 against, 9 senators abstained. [[Voting No 4]] In the face of the rejection of the amendments, we proceed to the vote on the draft resolution on honoring the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 on the 25th anniversary of its adoption, contained in print No 667 S. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 52 for, 23 against, 21 senators abstained. [[Voting No 5]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a resolution on honoring the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 2 April 1997 on the 25th anniversary of its adoption. I ask you to approach the president's table of Marshal Józef Zych, because I would like to present the resolution of the Senate to the marshal. [[Everybody up.]] [[Applause]] [[Talking in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u46	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! As President of the National Assembly, which adopted the Constitution 25 years ago, I warmly thank the Senate. At the same time, I would like to say, because there were voices here to talk about the historical truth, that in dozens of scientific studies from around the world about our constitution are emphasized All over the place. That it is a constitution of political compromise. At the time when we started working on the constitution I first participated in them as chairman of the assembly's rule committee, and later as its president, we had 29 groups on the political stage, there were 12 groups in Parliament, and the consultation covered several blocks. First of all, there was a parliamentary block. Secondly, there was a civic project that had almost 1 million signatures and was supported by.Solidarity. Thirdly, there were 16 groups from the so-called. The Convention of Saint Catherine, chaired by Jan Olszewski. There was the Catholic Church and all the groups... Ladies and gentlemen, we were aware that we were seeking first entry into the European Union and NATO. Without first of all guaranteeing the rule of law, we had no chance, and therefore everyone was aware of our position. Ladies and gentlemen, despite seven projects, despite disagreements, the National Assembly has never filed a motion to reject the draft constitution. I would also like to stress that John Paul's position was often referred to very often. II. I've had a chance to talk to him many times, it's all documented. If anyone today wants to know what John Paul II thought about the constitution, what the Vatican thought about it, then please read the book "Do not lose faith in the Vatican of that time Ambassador Frankiewicz. The whole chapter is devoted to this assessment. John Paul II was fully aware that we would not get out of this situation if we did not create at this stage a basis for building a just and democratic state. Ladies and gentlemen, recently, on May 26th, Archbishop Józef Michalik, president of the Polish Episcopate for Constitutional Affairs, whose left-wing views cannot be presumed, wrote a letter to the director of the museum in Leżajsk He did it on one occasion. In which he gives proof of this and speaks of the positives of this constitution. Of course, John Paul II wanted a reference to God's name in the preamble. And here I would like to highlight one point: there were 8 projects: the Marshal of Borowski is here. And it all threatened that we wouldn't have a recital. We met on five. Borowski, sleep. Małachowski, Mazowiecki, Struzik, I, and we decided to accept the project that we presented to the Constitutional Commission. And that's how we saved the day. This preamble, according to the Vatican and according to the most outstanding constitutionalists, is a model for democratic countries, for all, because it includes all values. And so did Pope John Paul. II. It's the first time I've revealed it. I spoke with the Pope directly, in private, that was my role at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, if we wish And then we wanted to build Poland together a fair, fair, democratic... As we are referring to political groups and we are talking about the fact that parliamentarians are elected by the will of the nation, we must refer to the whole history, to everyone and in every situation. That is why I am proud that, despite the fact that there were huge differences of opinion, we were able to rise above divisions and establish a constitution. I remember that moment. The Constitution was adopted in 3 readings. After the second reading, there was no right and left. Everyone almost automatically broke up and we sang a standing hymn: Poland had not died yet. And if anything should be emphasized today, it must be pointed out that without this then consent, then consent... Because in the end, anything to say, it was the people who approved the constitution in a referendum. If he hadn't approved her, she wouldn't have come into force. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a pattern, a pattern, how to act, how to love this country, how to be faithful to your views first and foremost. And for all of this, for recognizing this truth when the whole world recognizes... Today I am a lecturer of constitutional law at one of the most outstanding European universities, where we are emphasized at every step our identity, the identity of our constitution, in line with the Constitution of the United States and the most outstanding constitutions of the world. Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Some senators get up.]] [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u47	Thank you very much to the marshal for reminding the canons of politics, of how it should be practiced. We return to the second agenda: second reading of the draft law on amending the Law on forests. I would remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to take over the uniform bill in print No. 619 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law on the amendment of the Forest Act and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm presented by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 50 for, 45 against, 2 abstentions. [[Voting No 6]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on Forests and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Danuta Jazłowiecki to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the third item on the agenda: the Act amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws. The meeting of the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance took place at the end of the meeting, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 660 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Kazimierz Kleina, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u48	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! On behalf of the Committee on Budget and Public Finance, I request 21 amendments to be adopted, i.e. all those tabled in plenary and at the committee's meeting to amend the law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws. At the same time, I would like to propose that amendments 1 and 20 be voted in one vote. This is a proposal from the Committee on Budgets and Public Finance.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u49	Thank you very much. Do you still want to speak as senator? [[Thank you very much.]] We therefore proceed to the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. I would like to remind you that the committee recommends voting on Amendments 1 and 20 in block and separately on Amendment 21. If I don't hear the votes of objection, I'll take the view that the High Senate has given its consent. We are therefore voting on Amendments 1 and 20 in block. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Amendment 21. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 49 were in favour, 46 against, 2 senators abstained. [[Voting No 8]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, 95 were in favour, no one was against, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 9]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on pledge lists and mortgage banks and certain other laws. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the National Heritage Act related to the names of public spaces and monuments. The Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration have presented a draft resolution in which they ask for the rejection of the Senate Act No 644 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution tabled by the committees to reject the law. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Is Senator Jackowski voting or wondering? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] The votes were 96 senators, 51 votes for, 44 against, 1 abstention. [[Voting No 10]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the National Heritage Act related to the names of public spaces and monuments. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and the Committee on Budget and Public Finance have presented a draft resolution in which they propose amendments to the Senate Print Act No 643 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 96 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 14]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on occupational pension schemes and the Act on individual pension accounts and individual pension security accounts. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Law on amending the Law on bridge pensions and certain other laws. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senate printing No 654 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on bridge pensions and certain other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the Law on the amendment of the Law on Technical Dosor and the Law on Rail Transport. The Infrastructure Commission presented a draft resolution in which it requested the adoption of this law without any amendments to Senator Print No 639 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. There were 96 senators voted, 95 in favour, no one opposed, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Technical Dosor and the Law on Rail Transport. We are returning to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Water Law. The Committee on Infrastructure, the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on the Environment have presented a draft resolution in which they proposed amendments to Senatorial Print No 655 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1 corrects the wrong reference. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? My remotes are gone... Oh, here they are. Please state the results of the vote. 94 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 18]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 95 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 19]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Water Law. We are back to discussing item 9 of the agenda: the Law on the creation of the Maritime University of Technology in Szczecin. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Science, Education and Sport have presented a draft resolution in which they request amendments to the Act 659 A. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 21]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 22]] Attention, amendments 3 and 4 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, ninety-six in favour, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 24]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the creation of the Maritime Technical University in Szczecin. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the Medical Devices Act. A meeting of the Health Committee took place at the end of the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a report on the matter. It is available in print No 661 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u50	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! In view of the fact that legislative proposals were submitted during the discussion of this law, the Health Committee met yesterday. It recommends that you adopt the law together with 9 amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u51	Thank you very much. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would add that it was Senator Matecka, Gorgon Komor and Małecka-Libera. I take it you didn't. [[Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Comor: Dear Mr Marshal, Amendments 7, 8 and 9 can be voted together.]] Yes. Thank you very much. We proceed to the vote, first of all on the amendments and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 97 senators voted, 53 for, 44 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 26]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 27]] Amendment 4. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 29]] Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 30]] Attention, Amendments 7, 8 and 9 must be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 31]] We are voting on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 32]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Medical Devices. We return to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers, signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendment. It's a number 657 A and 657 B. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 33]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on ratification of the Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the United States of America concerning the deployment of flight security officers signed in Warsaw on 2 December 2021. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented one-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments. It's 656 A and 656 B senate prints. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the voting age. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 34]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on the ratification of the Executive Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Poland and the Government of the Republic of Armenia to the Agreement between the European Union and the Republic of Armenia on the readmission of persons residing illegally, drawn up in Brussels on 19 April 2013, drawn up in Warsaw on 29 October 2021. We return to agenda item thirteen: the Act on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up in Bridgetown, Barbados, on 15 October 2008. The Committee on National Economy and Innovation and the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the European Union have presented single-sounding draft resolutions in which they request the adoption of the law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on the ratification of the Economic Partnership Agreement between the CARIFORUM States, of the one part, and the European Community and its Member States, of the other part, drawn up in Bridgetown, Barbados, on 15 October 2008. We return to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 668 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Stanisław Gawłowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u52	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Two amendments were tabled by Senator Czerwinski. Despite the negative opinion of the government, both amendments received full support from the High Commission, and I therefore request amendments and the entire draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u53	Thank you very much. Do the Senator or the other Senator rapporteur still want to speak? I remind you that the applicant was Senator Czerwiński and the rapporteur after first reading Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski. I don't see any volunteers. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteurs and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such an inquiry? I don't see any volunteers. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted in the order of the text. "Print No 668 X " followed by the adoption of the draft from Print No 668 S in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 96 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 36]] Amendment 2. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] We proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-seven senators voted, ninety-six, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 38]] [[Applause]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Stanisław Gawłowski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. And that concludes the vote for now. [[Mr. Marshal...]] Mr. Senator Kwiatkowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u54	I, in agreement with the Legislative Bureau, because I consulted this, would like to make a statement, corrigendum. I inform you that the intention of my vote on the amendment to the draft resolution on honoring the Constitution of the Republic of Poland of 1997 tabled by Senator Jerzy Czerwiński, on which I voted remotely, was to vote against it. In the list of voting results, my vote is otherwise qualified, which is why I am making this statement, and I am making it in order to express my negative position on this amendment. At the same time, I support what was reflected in my vote, the whole resolution related to the celebration of the Polish Constitution of 1997. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u55	Thank you very much, Senator. Before I pass the lead to the Vice-Marshal, I'll read a brief announcement. I propose that the agenda be supplemented by points: the Act amending the Act on the support of households in the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial broadcasting The law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine and the Law on Higher Education and Science . and consider it as item 17 of the agenda; amendment of the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine and consider it as item 18 of the agenda; the Law on special regulations on transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine and consider it as item 19 of the agenda. If I do not hear the votes of opposition, I believe that the High House has accepted the proposals put forward. In the absence of any votes against, I state that the Senate has accepted the proposals submitted. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Michał Kaminski]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u56	We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the support of households in the cost of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. The text of the Act is contained in print No 671 and the report of the Commission In print No 671 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Culture and Media, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u57	Dear Marshal, High Izbo! I have the honour to present on behalf of President Jan Hamerski and my own report to the Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Culture and Media. I kindly inform you that the joint committees held a meeting today. At this meeting, we gave an opinion on the bill presented. I would like to say that after discussion and discussion of questions and doubts, the committee decided not to make any amendments to the bill. We are asking the High Senate to support the proposed bill. I'm not going to introduce her because the bill is well known to you before, recently... This is an amendment. There's a minister here, if there's any questions, he can answer them. Me too, of course, as far as possible. Nevertheless, I would like to remind you that this is a law that we are correcting and have already reviewed, and that the changes relate primarily to the amount that will be allocated to TV subsidies. Well, that's it. Please accept the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u58	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's duration to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator. The draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Digitisation has been authorised to present the government's position in the course of parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Secretary of State at the Chancellery of the Prime Minister Adam Andruszkiewicz: Thank you, Mr Marshal. Maybe we could get right to the questions.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u59	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I have a question. Why is there 250 PLN here, not 200 PLN or 300 PLN? Is this the result of any market prices for these devices that need to be bought, or is that just the best we can do as a country?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u60	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u61	Mr. Senator, well, that's just the math. Because the motion in the Senate was to increase the amount from the original amount of PLN 100, this was also mentioned by the President, the Senator, who was the rapporteur of the committee. Originally, the amount in the secondary law was saved in the amount of PLN 100. After the government's calculations, it turned out that we could afford the budget, to increase this amount to PLN 250. Here there is no other, so to speak, philosophy, but the possibilities of the Polish state.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u62	Thank you very much, Minister. Please, Senator Barbara Zdrojewska.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u63	Excuse me, I'm in correction mode. Minister, the Senate has asked for a surcharge to cover, apart from decoders, television sets. But we didn't set that amount in our proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u64	Thank you very much. No further questions. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Mr. Aleksander Szwed made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the Law on Higher Education and Science. The text of the Act is contained in print No 669 and the report of the Commission In print No 669 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, Senator Halina Poora, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u65	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! At their meeting, both committees, i.e. the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, decided to support the law without amendments. However, what I thought and what I would also like to say, on 11 March, was the amendment tabled, which sounds identical to what we read today, namely to delete the word "directly." What is important, the Senate has already accepted such an amendment on 11 March, but in the Seym it has not obtained a majority. We are very pleased that such a change is being reported today because we believe that it is important as regards this bill. The proposal at the committee meeting was presented by Mr Zdzisław Sipiera, who was the representative of the committee. It was a commission project. What else is worth adding? That, in fact, more points of this law would have to be amended, but at the request of the rapporteur... We have accepted the argument that the bill will soon be amended. We have such a promise. And we hope that this will happen quickly, because the wording should be improved in more places so that the text is uniformly sounding. So that we hope it will happen quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u66	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's duration to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? Senator Matecka, please.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u67	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ms Senator, please tell me whether at the committee meeting it was clear whether it was mentioned that this law already at the process stage, supposedly on 10 March, was incompatible with the executive decision of the Council of the European Union, which was announced on 4 March 2022 and which Poland was required to take into account in the drafting of the act. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u68	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u69	Mr. Marshal! Senator! This was the case, as was the case during the procession on 10 and 11 March, but there was no clear response from the Member because... well, there wasn't.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u70	Thank you very much, Senator. No further questions. [[Thank you.]] The draft of this law has been filed. Thank you very much. By the Sejm Committee. Mr Zdzisław Sipiera was authorised to present the position of the Parliamentary Committee. Would you like to speak on the bill under consideration? There is no envoy for you, so, by all means, it's gonna be difficult... So that I do not ask the senators if you want to ask the questions of Mr.Senators, because this will be difficult to do due to the lack of them. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration? Well, in the absence of it, you should also assume... Since he's not here, he won't speak. The senators are therefore not allowed to ask him questions. I'm opening a discussion. There are no volunteers. For the record, the following senators have made speeches to the minutes: Alexander Swed, Senator Ewa Matecka and Senator Janusz Błucherz. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on the bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. The text of the Act is contained in print No 670 and the report of the Commission In print No 670 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator. I understand, remotely.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u71	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. This is another package of laws on helping Ukrainian citizens, refugees fleeing the war. This time it concerns children who are in foster care. The bill is proceded at an express rate. I'm a little afraid that we'll get used to what's more, that the government will get used to it, and that the pace it imposes will justify the flaws in the laws. Well, after that there will be a request to the senators, also to the Members, that In view of the needs of life, the process of law enforcement was immediate and without amendment. And a quick revision of the laws will be promised. I understand the uniqueness of the situation in which we are in and, above all, in which the citizens of Ukraine are in, but this cannot be a permanent part of working on laws. The creation of the law must take time and, above all, the submission of good projects by the rulers. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the project entered the Sejm at 5 p.m. twenty-second, which is the day before yesterday, could be seen on the sejm pages. At 7:00 p.m., the relevant Sejm committees had their first reading. The second and third took place yesterday. This morning at 8 a.m.... sorry, at 9 a.m., the Family, Senior and Social Policy Committee discussed this project at its meeting. What's it about? In fact, we have a great deal of trouble with children who come from Ukraine under the care of possible ones, because they are not always guardians, whose Ukrainian legislation recognises as equivalent guardians in our foster care. Of course, these two systems don't go together. The point is that children who are social orphans or total orphans are deprived of the right to legal action, because they are children, come here under the care of people who, according to Polish law, do not have the possibility to take care of them. Of course, the foster care in Poland is a task of its own county and this county will carry out these tasks according to the law and face the problem. And the problem is not small because there are about 200,000 children in the institutional foster care in Ukraine. We do not know what part of them has already crossed the border, and what part will cross it. And here is a good solution proposed by the government to create a register of these children. The point is that we have no doubt that the youngest citizens of Ukraine are in Poland and are taken care of. And our authorities won't, unless the Ukrainian party agrees... And here is also a good solution, because the Ministry responsible for foster care, i.e. our Ministry of Family and Social Policy, is in constant contact with its counterpart in Ukraine. So unless the Ukrainian side agrees. This is the right solution, because the citizens of Ukraine have the right to decide on their behalf. And the whole thing about staying here and taking legal care of children gives rise to many, many difficult decisions, e.g. The point is, kids who come from orphanages That's what they call the equivalent of our care facilities, they're not vaccinated or all of them are vaccinated, or we don't know what they've been vaccinated for. This problem was highlighted by Senator Agnieszka Gorgon-Komor in the discussion. And this problem at a time when children don't have a legal guardian, can't be resolved by a doctor. Therefore, we need to control, and rather quickly, the establishment of legal care for children. And it's gonna be on a court of law. Here, in turn, speaking to you, she sees a very narrow throat, which is our Polish family courts. I already said earlier, during the process of the first law on helping citizens of Ukraine, that children, not necessarily orphans, but those who come to Poland without their parents, under the care of relatives or neighbors, are deprived of legal care. We made it up for them... I'm sorry, we've established a temporary guardian function for them, but this is the function of a family court at a public hearing. That means This is the data from a week ago. That about 3 000 cases in Poland must be carried out by family courts within 3 days. We didn't join this group of foster kids. So now we're gonna have to set up legal custody for them in open court before they're examined by a doctor and placed by the county in the right places where they can find good care. We also believe that the standards proposed or implemented in Ukraine, according to which fifteen children can be raised and cared for by one guardian, are far too little for children who have suffered trauma. The counties have the opportunity to work with people who will help in this undertaking, but I must say that this will be a very difficult task. Firstly, it is difficult to find such people, and secondly, yes, funding is provided by the government, but we also need to know that these people must be able to communicate with their children somehow. We also see a problem in adapting foster families, those forms of family that are understood in Poland so that there can be no more than eight children in the foster family, and this is the family home of the child. Meanwhile, carers who are a foster family come to us, this is one mother and brings with her fifteen children. She's got to have a PESEL number before she goes to court to be a foster caretaker for that 15th. Moreover, this mother, according to the rules read directly, must comply with the criteria of the Polish law on support for family and foster care, and must therefore demonstrate herself with a medical certificate about the possibility of performing this function and a certificate from a psychologist who has at least 2 years of experience, as well as demonstrate his source of constant maintenance. In my opinion, I stressed this in the debate. These are the errors of this law. But I also received, like Senator Major, who commends And here's an agreement with the senator. The attitude of the government regarding such respect for citizens other than Poland of the country, Ukraine, respect for the legislation there... We asked the Minister what is Poland's strategy regarding the care of these children. What we have heard in response satisfies both, I believe, Senator Majer and all the other members of the committee. Because we respect that legislation, the Ministry, as I have already said, is in constant contact with the equivalent of our Ministry of Social Policy, and we respect the government's decision regarding Ukrainian children. We will monitor those decisions that take place at the government level of Ukraine. We will respect the rights of children, we will respect the laws of the local government... [[Excuse me, Senator, but I have a feeling...]] I'm almost done. [[...that the announcements of what you're going to do don't fit in as a report on what happened on the committee. In a paronast minute speech...]] I'm sorry, Mr. Marshal, but, yes, they are, because these are the assurances of the Minister. These are her assurances, and I would like to summarize our debate on this. Bottom line is, I understand you're disciplined me about the length of my speech. Let me say this: we have decided to believe the government, to believe that the amendment will happen quickly, that it will be consulted both with non-governmental organisations that have been working in this area for many, many years, and will be carried out in agreement with local governments, especially the Polish County Union, and the relevant amendment will come to the Sejm and the Senate quickly. I therefore recommend, on behalf of the committee, the adoption of this law without amendments, subject to the fact that it is not only perfect, but in many places it has flaws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u72	Thank you. At present, senators can report no longer than a minute's duration to the rapporteur's senator. He's willing. You're welcome, Senator Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u73	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to ask Senator Magdalena Lovers what the benefits of this change are. Because from this very long statement, there are virtually no pros. Everything is based on promises, and there are no concrete records following these promises. So I have a request to say what the benefits of this change are. What will it do to those children who come from Ukraine when there is such a record as it is? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u74	Thank you, Senator. Please answer me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u75	Senator, the answer is quite difficult. However, I admit that the government, first of all, noticed the problem, second, is in contact with the authorities of the country where the children come from, thirdly, thought that the carers from Ukraine would be taking care of the children in Poland under Ukrainian law. Other issues need to be clarified, e.g. that these carers will be temporary carers, i.e. those whom we have established for children deprived of the care of their biological parents in the previous law, in the one that is in force in Poland. These are the three... We also gave to the children of these orphanages, from the care of institutional witnessing. It is also a problem, because it will have to be really solid... I do not want to say that control, but a solid and careful look at the way these funds are spent. The government's proposal provides guidance to make these payments for services and to provide certain things for children and their carers. And it would be like the first step to normalize the stay of children in these places in Poland. Moreover, these children's records are a very good solution, and I think we should emphasise that. The registration of children will allow us to monitor their fate. We already know today that some children come to us in accordance with frequent agreements between NGOs. The case of children who came from Ukraine under the care of a difficult group, a strange American church, which are staying in Puławy and which are to leave Puławy further, was the reason why Polish authorities were alarmed by NGOs operating in Poland. The visit of the equivalent of our Minister for Family Affairs and Social Policy has solved this problem because that Minister made a decision on this issue. So children's records are very important. This way they won't get lost. Sorry about the expression. And there are dramas in the war. This record is really needed and this is the most important step made in this law. Other issues require more work with local authorities and NGOs.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u76	I understand there's another... Oh, of course. Please, Senator Czerwinski has a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u77	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! Mr. Senator! We are now considering the parallel 2 aid laws for the Ukrainians. One increases its subjective scope, i.e. We will also provide assistance to those Ukrainians who cross the Polish-Ukrainian border not directly, but indirectly get into our country. Does this second law, the one we are talking about now, consume this issue? I'm talking about catching those kids that are supposed to be taken care of, and all the rest of the issues, juvenile records, and so on. It's easy to do at the border. But the question is, how do you do it when someone like that? will come from Moldova and somewhere through Slovakia will enter Poland. And then what? How do we get these kids out? Are these two laws correlated?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u78	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u79	Mr. Senator, the bill I'm talking about, although it's the same title as the previous one, is really about foster care. This foster care is hard to identify. when a child, e.g. with a neighbour or auntie crossed the border, and his parents stayed in Ukraine. Well, the senator probably saw, like me, how the citizens of Ukraine cross our border. Of course, they are registered, but no one there checks the child's affinity or relationship with the adult with whom he passes. It is easier to do so when the border is crossed by organized groups, with institutional care, which arrive by coach or train with one of the carers. Surely registering children who are deprived of guardians, have no parents or have no legal guardians here, we still need to clarify, organize in terms of law and... In fact, after the greatest period of migration, when it was not enough time to clarify the details in many cases. This is certainly a problem when before we give the PESEL number, we need to help in nutrition, in maintenance, in ensuring accommodation, in such basic human affairs. The point is that, in my opinion, these laws are not yet correlated with each other.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u80	Thank you very much. Please, there's one more senator who wants to ask you a question. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u81	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I have a question about the fact that in the amended act we add paragraph. 3a, 3b, 3c and the designated entity, i.e. such a fixed element, is the institution of the temporary guardian. Moreover, the issue of a permanent guardian, the status of a permanent guardian is regulated by the Ukrainian specialty, if I understand it correctly. And according to this law, according to the specialty of the Ukrainian permanent guardian, a cousin, someone in the family, etc., is named after persons who could become permanent guardians. My question is: can a person, a Polish citizen become a permanent guardian? And I'm also asking that in the context of mouth records. 3c, which states that when a permanent caretaker has over 15 children, a care centre... the head of the district center can hire a person to help. Could it be that the guardian is a person with Ukrainian citizenship and only this can be so, but to help can be a Polish citizen? [[Timer signal]] Is that a distinction... [[Sorry, Mr. Senator, time's up.]] Is such a distinction possible? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u82	Thank you. You're welcome, Senator, to respond.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u83	Mr. Senator, we didn't ask you that directly as you did, and I can't answer that question responsibly. In my opinion, according to these records, maybe, but I don't know if that's gonna happen. Children retain their citizenship, take this into account, they do not change their citizenship to Polish. In this situation, while staying here, they should be mostly taken care of by people they know. If they're coming from the orphanage, I'm sorry, that's enough. They're still ripped out of their environment. And if they were to be deprived of the care of the person they knew, it would be a drama, it would be a trauma to those children. In my opinion, the person to help may be a person from Poland, it may be a volunteer, it may be someone who just wants to help, it may be a lady who... And here we have a problem, because if we apply all the applicable Polish criteria for supporting families, then because of these very narrow criteria, one can say that this dense sieve will make it difficult to find people who meet them. But perhaps this is due to the fact that today, during committee deliberations, we did not have enough time to resolve all the doubts in these matters. The proposed amendment will give us the opportunity to have a wider and more detailed debate on this subject. I know one thing: we all want to help children from Ukraine, and children who don't have their parents, all the more so. I understand this step, the record, it's about not losing children, also in some sense submission, respect for Ukrainian law, I perceive them as positive in this law.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u84	Thank you very much, Senator. Do any of you senators have a question? Is there really no questions? After all, we agreed that we should proceed very quickly. After all, we agreed to cut it short. So I'm surprised there aren't any more questions to step on our own findings. Thank you. I would like to inform you that the draft law was introduced by the government as a matter of urgency. The Minister for Family and Social Policy has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: Yes.]] You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u85	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I'm just gonna say for a moment that speaking of what Senator Lover just said. Our intention is, of course, to meet expectations as far as possible, the wishes of the Ukrainian party regarding the care of children who come to Poland as children from orphanages, i.e. children who were placed immediately before their arrival in Poland in the Ukrainian foster care, but the regulation also applies to this small number of children, fortunately a small number that reach Poland completely unattended, i.e. which actually cross the border themselves, because such cases also happen. The whole regulation on temporary care is aimed primarily at creating or ordering the legal situation of children during their stay in Poland. This is a situation for us and for the Ukrainian side understood as a temporary situation. Therefore, these regulations apply only at the time when these children are in Poland. But that doesn't rule out e.g. parental rights of parents remaining in Ukraine when children come with third parties. However, we need this regulation to ensure that these children can be represented and taken care of in Poland. We clarify these provisions because these provisions are already included in the existing specialization, but we will clarify them in relation to organized groups, i.e. Ukrainian orphanages, care institutions. Hence this number of fifteen children, this is the Ukrainian standard. The person employed in Poland by the district help centre of the family when necessary may be any person. She is not subject to the requirements of candidates for foster families or adoptive families, because it will not be legal guardians, it will be someone providing care support for the duration of their stay in Poland. It can be both a Ukrainian citizen and a Polish citizen. It doesn't matter. We want to be as flexible as possible here and adapt to the needs of those groups that are in Poland. This clarification that a temporary guardian can be set up over the whole group, regardless of the size of this group, is precisely to ensure that the family courts that are facing this challenge today have no doubt, even in the case of numerous groups, to establish a temporary guardian over a large group of children, in order to prevent the division of these groups. In such situations we also give this... in fact we commission this task to the district centers of family assistance, the task of hiring additional carers, when the participation of Ukrainian carers themselves who came to Poland with children will be insufficient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u86	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? You're welcome, Senator Rybicki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u87	Minister, I'd like to ask you about the government's estimates. What is the extent to which orphans and their guardians cross the border and sometimes unattended children? And does Poland intend, in agreement with the European Commission, to prepare a programme for the relocation of orphans who come to Poland? I ask because this phenomenon will undoubtedly increase, and it will be, in colloquially speaking, impossible to grasp by one country. Is such contacts, talks with the European Commission the Polish government conducting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u88	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u89	As for the scale, our estimates today indicate that we already have around in Poland. 3,000 children from orphanages. Many of these children came to Poland in the first few days since the Russian invasion. Most of them came through direct cooperation with various Ukrainian institutions of many NGOs in Poland. We appreciate this job, this effort. Today, children who are in Poland are taken care of, as is the case with specializations, voivodships. Voivodeships cover the cost of these children's stay in Poland, including those that were evacuated through various NGOs. It's happening. As far as the problem of relocation of these children abroad is concerned, so far the position of the Ukrainian side has been very clear and unambiguously negative. The Ukrainian party expected us to take care of these children as far as possible in Poland and did not agree to relocation. After a few weeks, when we showed the Ukrainian side, and it was directly... Deputy Minister Rewuk was in Poland for a few days. We were together in a hub in Stalowa Wola and in several centers where these children are staying, and she saw the reality, saw what it all looked like. Many of these groups, which come to Poland, already during their journey or even before contacting various institutions that operate in different countries, especially European ones, in Germany, Italy, Spain. And they actually come to Poland with a thought, not even with a thought, but with a plan to go to other countries. We as a Polish party absolutely do not have the power here to stop or specifically relocate these groups. We do not want to do this without agreement with the Ukrainian party. For today it seems that in any such case the Ukrainian party must give its consent to a particular group. We do this either through the Ministry of Social Policy of Ukraine, or the consulates and Ukrainian embassy in Poland. The records of minors will also help us coordinate this process, because today everything is done by hand, case by case. As far as our agreements with third countries are concerned, of course we are working with the European Commission. The Commission issued some documents yesterday on how it wants to address the issue of child protection and support in relocation. We meet with representatives of many countries, as well as NGOs from other countries. For now, this is our position. We have opportunities, we still have a large database of free seats when it comes to adopting such organized groups outside the places that are in the voivodeship base. We have places directly reported by various institutions, organizations, we also have government centers at our disposal. That's a few thousand places on the scale right now. 3,000 children who are in Poland. We do not see such a direct need today, but, as I said, we meet the expectations of both these groups and the Ukrainian side. And where things are already, you can say colloquially, done by these groups, we try not to stand in their way, but we must be absolutely sure that the Ukrainian party knows and consented to it. As far as the future is concerned, I would just like to point out that today we know that a huge number of Ukrainian orphanages have already been internally evacuated to Western regions, especially the Lviv region. There's a lot of thousands of kids out there. The Ukrainian Party has already requested its services to prepare appropriate approvals in case of urgent evacuation. On the Ukrainian side, consent is required to take children abroad from such facilities, especially from state institutions. So far this has been a problem, because every region had its own procedures. We have known for more than a week that the Ukrainian side, just in case, as if preparing for this possibility, gives such consent. So if it turns out that the situation will unfortunately deteriorate, it will develop in the western part of Ukraine... Well, we have to face the fact that in such a situation there will actually be a very large influx of refugees, including a large number of orphanages... I think that then the situation, as far as our reception opportunities for these children are concerned, can change. Today we are clearly communicating the Ukrainian side of the need for relocation in the case of people with disabilities, i.e. both adults and children with disabilities. Here we have much more limited opportunities and it will be difficult to increase the possibility of receiving children who require specialized care from day to day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u90	Thank you very much. Please, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, 1 minute.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u91	Thank you very much. Minister, this is one of the most tragic effects of this war, the fate of these children. Tell me something like that. You mentioned cooperation with the Ukrainian side. Does the Polish website know all the data Names, names or other data of this type that allow, I would say, to identify these children? What's the procedure at the border? I understand he's coming, for example. a bus with such children or some other means of transport. Does the Ukrainian party draw up a memo and have records of the people who left, which makes it easier to identify it? How does it look on the practical side? As I understand it, some of the children who come to the territory of the Republic of Poland are not known by name. Yes? Yeah, well, that's the situation, too. What does the procedure look like in these situations? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u92	Thank you very much, Senator. Before the Minister answers that question, I will tell the senator that those senators who are taking part in our debates know the answer to your question, because they didn't come here just to speak, they were in session from the beginning, and they learned what you will probably learn from the Minister in a moment. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u93	It's me very briefly. We are based on documents of the Polish Border Guard, which makes these briefings on the Polish side. Indeed, some children cross the border on the basis of passports, some on the basis of birth certificates, and some unfortunately are without documents and this is done on the basis of statements. That's why we keep records of minors... The first point at which these data will be entered is the hub in Stalowa Wola, which is much more detailed and comprehensive. These data will be expanded, as is apparent from the draft law, so that we can properly relocate groups, i.e. find places that are suitable due to the size, structure of age and health condition of the disability or disability of these children.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u94	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Senator Danuta Jazlowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u95	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, tell me how this help looks and how many children there are who require constant medical attention. I mean children, for example. with cancers, children who are currently in shelters, i.e. in places that are very dangerous, very badly prepared for children in such states to be there, but also vulnerable to military action. How does the government help these children? How many of these children are left in Ukraine and what is their situation? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u96	Thank you very much. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u97	Here we deal with issues more related to transport or the organisation of evacuation, which is directly supervised by the Ministry of Health. I'm talking about specialized, medical transports, especially oncology children. I don't have any data, I don't think anyone has any data today about how many such children are left in Ukraine, how many are in places where they're hard to evacuate. I also note that, as with many orphanages, many of these children have been evacuated to the western part of Ukraine. The question of travel is extremely important here. We are not followers. How do I put this? Evacuation in a situation where this is not absolutely necessary. I mean children whose health can be threatened by transport itself, and we are dealing with such cases too. Wherever possible, we try to support those children who are in Ukraine. I am also talking about humanitarian aid, specialized assistance for hospitals, even for Kiev hospitals, and we also organised such transports for specific orders, in the sense that this concerned specific products, equipment that is needed, for example. for the evacuated maternity ward, which is located in a shelter in Kiev. Transports there were delivered, while evacuation of these children directly endangers their health and life, so in such situations we do not want to do so forcefully. But wherever possible, we work with the Ukrainian Railways and the Ministry of Infrastructure, as well as with organisations that operate in Ukraine to coordinate these evacuation processes. It's not easy, as you can imagine. Today, too, the Ukrainian side is influenced to a large extent by those who manage to get on the trains that we organize together. It also looks different there, depending on the moment, the city, etc. But where possible, we try to help. Oncology children in Poland have good care, and there is also a very efficient process of relocation of these children to third countries, because, as with children with disabilities, it is much harder to increase the number of places of such care in Poland every day. Therefore, here we are immediately working on such relocation with both the Ukrainian side and partners from other countries. But this is what the health department directly deals with in the case of oncology children.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u98	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jerzy Czerwinski a question.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u99	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! Minister, two brief questions. First. Two laws enter into force virtually the same, at the same time. The point is that people who get to Poland from Ukraine indirectly fall within the scope of all these aid laws. Is this bill related to this? I mean, how are we gonna catch the kids? In quotation marks Without care, which will get to us indirectly, i.e. not at the border, because it is simple, in proportion and indirectly, from another country, across the EU border, which is not really a border? And second question. Those kids who don't have legal guardians, and they get in some way, but without actual guardians... In theory, it's possible. But not from orphanages, just so single... Well, somebody's probably gonna ask about them in Ukraine. Or just by the consul? Because according to this juvenile record... [[Timer signal]] ...the data can only be made available to the Ukrainian Consul. [[Voice from the room: Yes.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u100	Thank you very much, Senator. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u101	As far as the stay of unaccompanied children in Poland is concerned, which will come indirectly, theoretically by other countries, and not directly from Ukraine, they are subject to the provisions of our law on foster care, i.e. children found unattended in Poland, regardless of the situation of war. Yeah, it happens. And that's where the same procedure works. When it comes to children who arrive without actual care, as I said, we have such cases and here it can actually be so that in Ukraine someone about these children can ask and claim, and that is why they are first directed to Stalowa Wola, where these children go. All children who cross the border without actual care go to Hub in Stalowa Wola and Hub to contact the Ukrainian side, first to verify whether this child actually has care in Ukraine and whether we are able to... We simply want to give Ukrainian carers a chance to apply for this child before this child goes into our foster care system, because ultimately this will be the case for these children coming to Poland individually without care.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u102	Thank you. [[Mr. Marshal, I've already volunteered.]] Please, Senator Michael Sewerinski... [[Stanisław Gogacz.]] Excuse me, Senator Stanislaw Gogacz, excuse me.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u103	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. As far as the amended law is concerned, we have a record that if the temporary guardian is over fifteen children, then he has the right to help the person employed by the district care centre. Tell me why it's a 15-person criterion. Well, if it's gonna be a big group from the orphanage, there's gonna be a multiple of 15 people, and there's gonna be some way to separate those people helping these kids, this institution. But if it's only 14 children, if it's not an orphanage, it's a group of 14 children, then in this situation... Well, it doesn't seem very flexible, which doesn't allow it in a situation where it's not fifteen or even sixteen when there's not that many, and it's like. Fourteen or thirteen, because basically the problems are the same. And what made you think it'd be a stiff record? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u104	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u105	The number of fifteen children results directly from the request, it can be said whether the facts and standards in Ukraine are consulted with the Ukrainian Ministry. These are the standards in Ukraine, that's how they work. It is not our intention to reform the Ukrainian foster care system in this temporary state. All the time, as I would like to stress, our goal is to provide care for these institutions as they are, while they are in Poland, and allow them to return as soon as possible. This is the expectation of the Ukrainian side. It is our obligation for the PCPRs to employ additional helpers, additional people to care, that we are concerned and aware that these groups often come in a limited composition when it comes to educators, carers. There is no ban on hiring more people anywhere, absolutely. I agree that in the case of fourteen children it may be problematic to leave them with one tutor, but we are absolutely not blocking anything. We only impose an obligation on the PCPRs to employ such assistance where this number is greater than that resulting from the Ukrainian standard.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u106	Thank you very much, Minister. I ask you to ask Senator Jan Maria Jackowski a question. [[Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. I'm just asking you not to comment on my questions because I'm in regular time and I have the right to ask questions, and the case is serious. So to...]] Mr. Senator, I didn't comment on your question, I just referred to the obvious fact that you were asking about things that were already in the Senator's report from the committee meeting, and she was talking about it when she reported. And everyone saw that you weren't, like most other debates, present in the courtroom, and you just showed up to ask a question. If you were sitting here, you wouldn't have to ask. It wasn't as a comment, I just gave you some good advice, just like that. [[Thank you very much...]] Because very often you ask questions about issues that have already been raised, and then you repeat the same questions several times. It's just a matter of concern for your senator. Yeah, I just didn't notice that you were referring to other people who, in your opinion... Because no one, Senator, is acting like you in this House. [[Mr. Marshal, I would like to ask you very much because you are acting unprofessionally at this moment... and I would not like to discuss it here. I have the right to ask a question.]] But of course. Nobody's gonna... [[I hope you can count it off from this minute on the question I'm asking.]] But of course you do, Lord... [[And I'm gonna think about not taking the floor in the debate...]] But you're welcome... [[...to simply respond to the comments you make to me during the Senate meeting. Yeah, well, I'd really like to...]] Mr. Senator, please... [[...to abstain from such comments.]] Mr. Senator, I'm asking you to ask me a question. And you do. As with any of your many questions It's a minute. [[Yes, sir.]] You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u107	And I'm usually in a minute, so please don't direct these comments to me. Minister, I have a question about what it looks like to work with churches and religious unions, which are also included in this law. Do we have any statistics here that indicate the scope, the scale of cooperation in this work for the benefit of these children? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u108	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u109	Of course we work with all institutions, including churches. The staff, which deals with the relocation of children in Poland, means looking for the right places, matching in fact the bases of places that we have, to the needs of specific groups, cooperates, as I said, with various institutions. The largest groups are the bases that the voivods report. Non-governmental organisations are the second ones here. A very large pool of places was offered by Caritas, but also by other organizations. And the third is government centers. We statistics because of who is, you can say, the donor of these places, we're not leading yet.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u110	Thank you very much. [[Voice from the room: End.]] Would any of you like to ask another question? [[Yeah, I volunteered.]] You're welcome, Senator Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u111	Mr. Marshal! Minister! I know from experience a case that... Maybe the Minister can help me find the answer to the question that appears. With my volunteers, I had a 17-year-old mother with a three-month-old child. She came to us, somehow crossed the line and got here. We took care of her, but there was a legal custody problem because she's underage, 17 years old. The point is to at least insure the mother and the child so that they can use health care. What rules to apply to refugees A refugee. in this case With a small child when this person is underage? It's about benefits, for example. If we're trying to provide for her, what code, what rules, do we have to do it? And what's gonna happen... She turns 18 in May. What's gonna happen to that mother when she's 18 and her kid who... [[Timer signal]] That's the first question. And a very short, quick question. On a journey... [[Mr. Senator...]] Okay, let me ask you one more question. [[But would the senator please indicate to what extent this question concerns the item on the agenda, the bill that we are considering? Because I just feel like this amendment doesn't talk about the question you asked about at all.]] What are we talking about here? About the kids. Yes or no? [[Voice from the room: About foster care.]] [[It's about foster care.]] It's about foster care. Well, once again, the mother and the child are coming, and she's 17. The question is, is he under surrogacy? What do you do with a case like this?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u112	Good. Minister, you're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u113	Mr. Senator, I don't feel 100%. competent to answer this question, although I do not imagine that we should deprive the mother who gives birth to a child of parental rights, even if she is underage or at the age of 18. We have family courts and they decide who is the guardian. As for temporary guardians, i.e. those who come with children from Ukraine, as if replacing their parents, they will also be established by our family courts. [[So the family court will decide? Because the voivodships didn't know how to behave.]] Yeah, yeah. [[Family court, okay.]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u114	Thank you. Do you have any more questions for the senators? You're welcome, Senator Danuta Jazlowiecka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u115	Minister, there are a lot of students in our country. These are very young people who received help from their parents before the war. They don't come into contact with these parents very often today. There are cases where these parents died. It's very difficult for them to stay in these studies, even if they take part-time jobs. The cost of studying is high enough for us that they can't handle it. Do you have any special assistance for this group of young people?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u116	Thank you very much. You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u117	Thank you for making such a remark. At this point, I cannot answer the question of whether there will be a specific programme in this area.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u118	Thank you very much. Do you have any more questions for the Minister? No. I'm opening a discussion. [[Voice from the room: Minister...]] I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Minister. [[Undersecretary of State in the Ministry of Family and Social Policy Barbara Socha: Thank you.]] Well, there's always a formula. I'm opening a debate. Please take the floor of Senator Marcin Bosacki.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u119	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! We should help 2 million Ukrainians and Ukrainians who find shelter in Poland, who are fleeing bombs, airplanes and Russian rockets. This should be a common national challenge and I am delighted that this is largely the case. This should be a task for society, for local governments, for NGOs, and finally for state institutions. And that is why I would like to declare, repeating for you, Senator Kochan, that despite numerous comments to the bill under consideration, we will vote for it so that it will enter into force as soon as possible to help those Ukrainian children who come to our country and need care, be given as soon as possible. Although we look forward to meeting the government's promises that this law will be revised as soon as possible in these matters and in those necessary points that Senator Kochan has pointed out to repair. On this occasion, I would also like to strongly appeal to the representatives of the government to support almost unanimously adopted by the Senate 45 minutes ago, for which I thank you very much, the draft law on opening up government and Treasury-owned accommodation opportunities for refugees. Too many of them still sleep in gyms or gyms. They could sleep in much better conditions. This needs to be started as soon as possible. Therefore, I cordially ask and urge the government to support the bill that the Senate had just adopted. I think it would be for the benefit of those 2 million Ukrainians who have found shelter with us. The point is for the Sejm to deal with this bill as soon as possible. By the way, I have a little more general attention. We ask government representatives to look a little more closely at what the Senate is preparing in this difficult situation when time is chasing us. Today, we have just discussed the point that in Poland help is not only for Ukrainians and Ukrainians, refugees from Ukraine who came directly across our border, but also for those who came through Slovakia, Hungary, Moldova or Romania. We're gonna make a decision today to take care of them, but it's two weeks too late. Even two weeks ago, this House voted exactly such an amendment to the first aid law, deleting the words "directly" came. Unfortunately, then a government representative, Minister Wąsik, at both committee meetings and in plenary, was against and, as I understand it, rejected our amendment after 24 hours by the Sejm. I'm gonna have to ask you one more time. Here sits 100 competent people with great experience in various areas of life. We ask for more serious leaning on our amendments or initiatives, because this will save a lot of time, as in this case, and will help to support Ukrainian refugees more quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u120	Thank you very much, Senator. I inform you that the list of speakers has been exhausted. I would also like to inform you that Senator Aleksander Swed has made his speech in the discussion for the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. We proceed with the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law on special regulations in the field of transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine. The text of the Act is contained in print No 672, and the report of the Commission In print No 672 A. I ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Infrastructure, Senator Alicia Zając, to submit a report to the committee. You're welcome, Senator.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u121	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators! On behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, which is currently discussing another law that will help the Ukrainian people at this extraordinary time after 24 February 2022, when they fight for their homeland with such determination and dignity... It's not like it wasn't so long ago that the government was in a hurry. The government is only in a hurry because such extraordinary circumstances are and must be met in an appropriate way today. The committee was attended by Minister Andrzej Bittel of the Ministry of Infrastructure as well as persons accompanying the Minister. Following the presentation by the Minister of the draft law, the senate legislator, who did not make any legislative comments, spoke. The Senators of the Committee on Infrastructure have also not tabled any amendments. We voted unanimously to adopt the bill without amendment. I might say, in order to avoid unnecessary questions, that despite such rapid proceding and short time, the Ministry sought to consult with the environment, i.e. the carriers, with railwaymen who simply show extraordinary involvement in the circumstances that we currently have. International consultations have also been held. Former Commissioner for Transport, former ministers of Germany, France, the Czech Republic and Austria in Krakow and later at the Przemyśl border. We also show an extraordinary effort of Poles and Polish government to alleviate this difficult situation with which the Ukrainians had to deal so far before crossing the border with Poland. Therefore, now that they have crossed the border, they must be received and taken care of in an extraordinary way. What is directly relevant to the project? In the case of infrastructure managers, it is the provision and preparation of railway infrastructure for the organisation of rail transport in accordance with the proposed regulation, as well as the possibility of obtaining funding. In the case of railway undertakings Directly about ensuring rail transport of persons from the territory of Ukraine in the territory of the Republic of Poland in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine, as well as about the possibility of obtaining funding. In the case of road transport operators, directly for the maintenance of the validity of the documents and the possibility of shortening the route of carriage carried out on the basis of the permit for international commercial carriage of passengers. In the case of drivers who are Ukrainian citizens who were either in Poland or as a result of the war were found in Poland to maintain the validity of allowances. In the case of seafarers who are Ukrainian citizens, the renewal of allowances For drivers and other workers necessary for the operation of rail passenger services, because this project only covers passenger transport, it is directly about extending the working time. And here's the acceptance of the railroad community. In the case of the Chief Inspector of Road Transport, directly for processing applications for renewal of the driver's certificate. In the case of maritime offices, directly for the receipt of applications for renewal of qualifications and for the issuance of qualifications. Ukrainian citizens moving from the territory of Ukraine in connection with the armed conflict, which is the beneficiary of humanitarian aid, will benefit from the means of rail transport covered by the proposed regulation. The Minister of Infrastructure will transfer funds from the Assistance Fund to the entities I listed. I would like to ask, on behalf of the Committee on Infrastructure, for the adoption of a draft law without amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u122	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, the senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the rapporteur's senator. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? No. Thank you very much, Senator Rapporteur. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Infrastructure has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Yes? You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u123	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In my first words, I would like to express my thanks to the Marshal for dealing with this project in an express mode, for this morning's committee meeting, for this debate today, in which I have the opportunity to participate. The senator presented the scope of the changes in this project. So that if Mr Marshal permits, I would just like to thank the Ukrainian, Polish, German, Czech railwaymen in the Senate, who cooperate with all of us, so that this transport is possible to the extent that it is needed. It's so short. If there are any questions, I'd be happy to answer them. [[And local governments.]] Yes, yes, Polish railwaymen are also local and local.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u124	Thank you very much, Minister. Yeah, we have a lot of that spirit of cooperation today for these few laws, and that's good. Good. [[That's how it's gonna be.]] Thank you very much. At present, senators, as the Minister pointed out, may ask questions on the agenda for no more than a minute. Are there senators who would like to ask such a question to the Minister? No. Minister, thank you. [[Secretary of State at the Ministry of Infrastructure Andrzej Bittel: Thank you very much.]] [[Thank you very much.]] I'm opening a discussion. I'm telling you no one signed up for this. For the record, Senator Aleksander Swed has made a statement to the record... [[Senator Kwiatkowski wants to speak.]] [[The list is closed.]] [[Voice from the room: List closed.]] [[Voice from the room: Too late.]] Well, there you go, Senator Kwiatkowski... [[I've been here since 8:00 since the committee meeting. I didn't miss a minute...]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u125	Very briefly, Mr. Marshal. I'd like to thank you, Senator. Because at this meeting we are dealing with a whole block of laws that are a legislative response to these events across our eastern border, and I would really like to thank you very much here. Because regardless of whether these are individual ministries involved in these issues, whether they are voivodeships who are doing their responsibilities in coordination, whether they are local governments or social organisations, volunteers, we are all trying to address these problems that arise. And thank you very warmly, very much to everyone, as I said, whether it's government administration, local government administration, or volunteers, NGO. All these projects are showing that we are able to react effectively as a legislative authority, although of course we thank you in this regard. also executive authority, social and self-government organisations.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u126	Thank you very much, Senator. However, I would ask you to submit to the debate on time in the future. The discussion is closed. Today, I have reprimanded all the senators, and therefore I must correct Senator Kwiatkowski as well... [[I'm glad I joined this noble group.]] ...even though it's easy. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting. Dismissed until 2:45 p.m. There'll be a vote right after the break. Thank you very much. [[Thank you for this break, too.]] [[Adjournment from 14 minutes 18 to 14 minutes 48]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u127	I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled to take place on 12 and 13 April 2022. Of course, the agenda for this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We are returning to the 16th agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Support of Households to bear the costs of changing the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. The Committee on Infrastructure and the Committee on Culture and Media have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without any amendments to the Senate printing No 671 A. We'll proceed with the vote. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, 92 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 39]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Support of Households to bear the costs associated with the change of the standard of digital terrestrial television broadcasting. We return to the examination of item 17 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the Law on Higher Education and Science. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions have presented a draft resolution in which they apply for the adoption of the law without amendments of Senator Print No 669 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of that State and the Law on Higher Education and Science. We return to the examination of item 18 of the agenda: the law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. The Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy has presented a draft resolution in which it proposes the adoption of the law without amendments of Senate printing No 670 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory. We return to the examination of item 19 of the agenda: the Law on special regulations on transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in Ukraine. The Infrastructure Commission has presented a draft resolution in which it requests the adoption of the law without amendments We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 93 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law on special regulations in the field of transport and maritime affairs in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u128	I would like to inform you that the agenda of the thirty-nineth Senate meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I inform you senators that the statements made to the minutes will be included in the official version of the short-term report. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate, but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. The senators' statements are not discussed. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Alicia Chybick.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u129	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to Minister Janusz Cieszyński, a representative of the government on cybersecurity, computerization in various areas of our lives. I'm going to talk about cybersecurity, but I'm talking specifically about cybersecurity for children and young people. Computerization, which is taking place at the moment in geometric progress, is the most positive thing, none of us can imagine living without a computer, cell, mobile network. Progress in this field with the introduction of fast 5G connections is undoubtedly a great success of computer science. In health care itself, great progress has also been made, I mean e-Health, which includes electronic conduct of the patient, electronic display of prescriptions, teleporads, teleconsultation, descriptions of X-rays, magnetic resonance imaging, computer scans or other research. It's all priceless. But it all has a different face. Therefore, my question to the Minister is: how does this rapid development of computerization affect the health of Polish children, and what has been done in this matter? I'm asking because we've heard so many voices that daycare, kindergarten, schools shouldn't have wi-fi. And I'm not saying that I do. That's the question. Ladies and gentlemen, on 11 April, the Senate will hold a meeting to which the Senate Marshal, Prof. Tomasz Grodzki, I, as President of the Parliamentary Children's Team, Senator Alexander Pociej, is the chairman of the Committee on Human Rights, Law and Petitions, among others. There was a very dramatic discussion on this issue that I am talking about. Mr Jarosław Sachajko, President of the Parliamentary Group on Cybersecurity for Children. The title of this meeting is the Cybersecurity of children and young people. I hope that the Minister who promised to appear at this meeting will be there. We will discuss the following topics: cybersecurity of children and young people and the good of computerization of life, the impact of electromagnetic radiation on the health of children and young people, the discussion of the 5G report commissioned by the Minister of Health, the draft regulation of the Council of Ministers on projects that can significantly affect the environment and the consequences for assessing the impact of design mobile base stations, the supervision of electromagnetic radiation from mobile devices, the impact of electromagnetic millimetre waves on health, and then we will go to the summary, we will consider whether this book is white or e.g. Black. This is very important, because as a pediatrician, I have such a feeling that the flow of information to young people, to young children from different IT sources without adequate education is detrimental to their development, to their brains and that there is a lot to do in this matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u130	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement from Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u131	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! My statement is addressed to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Poland, Mr Mateusz Morawiecki, and concerns energy transformation. Last week there was a meeting of the Parliamentary Electric Law Team. The date is very important, because 100 years ago, in the interwar period the first electrical law was created. This electric law, which was founded 100 years ago, was a very good electrical law, one of the best in Europe. It was generally based on bottom-up energy production. At that time, in the interwar period after a really short period of engagement, many people had 3,000 different independent energy sources. In this team are appointed experts and experts debated what to do, how to target Poland in the context of what happened after Russia's attack on Ukraine, and some sentiments are developed. We present them to the Prime Minister. I'll mention the most important. Poland's energy policy should be reviewed as a matter of urgency by 2040 and then the second energy reform should be undertaken. It is urgent to build in Poland a strong segment based on bottom-up, distributed, renewable, green energy from the circular economies needed to stabilise and balance the demand for electricity production in the electricity market by building a biogas plant and a microelectric plant of class 10 and 200 kW and a 1 MW power plant or biogas plant in each municipality. As a matter of urgency, the law on wind farms on land should be unblocked, so-called. Law 10H. Urgent is the need to revise the development plan of the transmission networks presented by the Polish Power Grids taking into account the needs of offshore wind farms, in particular taking into account in this plan the bottom-up development of RES generation sources connected to low voltage distribution networks, average voltage and 110 kV networks adapted to the construction of offshore wind farms. It is necessary to proceed to the restoration and construction of hydropower plants by entering into the Act on the Real Estates of a hydro power plant as a public utility; this is particularly important in Natura 2000 areas as a system of energy stabilisation. The facilities for the production of energy from incineration plants and the neutralization of non-recyclable waste must be built. The construction of photovoltaics should continue. The implementation of a system of rules for the sharing of national energy networks, electricity networks and balancing market resources for distributed energy needs should be initiated to take account of the autonomy of rural areas up to 20302040. You should stop talking about the so-called. The power lines overload myth and start talking about increasing their use with intelligent infrastructure, information systems, electronics. Other European countries have been working on building electroprosumer resilience for 2 decades and are striving to increase their energy independence. Poland should also seek immediate energy independence. We need to use the resources we have in Poland as well as use the energy from the sun, water and wind. Otherwise, there will be a need for interstate agreements which can lead to colonization of the entire energy sector in Poland to the detriment of the economy and citizens. In the Senate of the Republic of Poland we have established a Parliamentary Electric Law Team and all these suggestions come from the first meeting of this team. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-03-24-senat-39-2.u132	Thank you, Senator. That concludes the senator's statements. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the thirty-nineth Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term of office will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office, room 255. The thirty-nineth sitting of the Senate of the Republic of Poland is closed for the 10th term of office. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 15 minutes 04]]
