ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u1	Please take your seats and keep your conversations quiet. I'm reopening the session. Dear Senators! I would like to remind you that the proceedings are held both in a traditional manner and using means of distance communication. Mr. and Mrs. Senators in the Senate building, please check to see if you all have disabled applications to participate remotely. As well as the Senators participating in the meeting remotely, I inform you that in 15 minutes we will block the possibility of joining the meeting. If you have any problems, please contact us at the number you have previously received. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now proceed with the vote, which is intended solely to establish a list of senators attending the meeting. Please surrender any vote to confirm your presence. Please state the results of the vote. [[Yet...]] I see him, but I'll take it into account for the next vote. It's hard not to notice. 75 senators voted and so many are currently taking part in the meeting. Oh, there's already two more senators. Ladies and gentlemen of the Senators, I propose to supplement the agenda with a point: Act amending the law on assistance for Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of Ukraine and consider it as item 16 of the agenda. It's a government project. If I do not hear the opposition, I will find that the High House has accepted the proposal. In the absence of any votes against, I find that the Senate has accepted the proposal. Dear Senators, I would like to remind you that today, at 3 p.m., an online meeting will be held in the Senate plenary room with the Vice-President of the European Commission responsible for interinstitutional relations and forecasting, Mr Maroš Šefčovič. Senators wishing to take part in the meeting remotely, please do not log in from the sitting. The identifier and password remain unchanged. And those who want to take part personally, I cordially invite you to this meeting. We proceed with the review of item 16 of the agenda: the Act amending the Law on Assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. The text of the Act is contained in print No 697 together with the corrigendum in print No 697, there are minor errors, and the committee's report In print No 697 A. I would like to ask the rapporteur of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u2	Mr. Marshal! Dear Senators! This law was prosecuted in the Sejm yesterday and in the Art mode. 61 yesterday, this law was dealt with by the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and by the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration. The law has a rather short and simple content, namely to extend the payment of benefits to people receiving refugees from Ukraine from 60 days to 120 days. This is a benefit known for the amount of 40 PLN per day per refugee. In addition to this amendment, there are still possibilities to verify the regularity of payment of these benefits in order to minimise the risk of fraud when paying out significant benefits to the state budget. The committees yesterday gave a clear positive opinion on this proposal and request that the law be adopted without amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u3	Thank you very much, Senator. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of inquiry to the Senator rapporteur. Would any of your senators like to ask such a question? I understand the senator isn't responding. The bill was filed by the government. The Minister for Home Affairs and Administration has been authorised to present the government's position during parliamentary work. At this point, I would like to welcome the representative of the Ministry, the Secretary of State, Minister Maciej Wąsik. Does a government representative wish to speak on the bill under consideration and present the position of the government? Thank you. At present, senators may submit no more than a minute of questioning to a government representative related to this item on the agenda. On this point, Senator Swede wants to ask a question. Yes? [[Senator Łyczak.]] Ah, Senator Łyczak. I'm sorry. Mr. Senator. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u4	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. Minister, I would like to ask you why we haven't received a dollar from the European Union so far. 'Cause it's bothering the Poles. And what the government has done about it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u5	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u6	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! Well, that, of course, is an open question, because it is not a question to me why the European Union has not allocated funds. Nevertheless, I would like to say that the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration Mariusz Kaminski and the Minister for Home Affairs and Administration of Germany, because the Germans also have a problem, they maintain a huge number of refugees, count them at their place of residence, ask the European Union to finance refugees of EUR 1 000 per person in 6 months' time. This is a joint proposal of Poland and Germany. Following this line of reasoning, Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki sent to the European Union a request for measures in this way constructed. I, Ladies and gentlemen, know that Polish society, Polish local governments, Polish Sejm, Polish Senate all lean together And the Polish government, of course. Over the fate of those fleeing the war. I would very much like to thank you, on behalf of the President of this Law, Mr President, who I am replacing today, for the good work that I have done in the committees and for the sympathetic adoption of this proposal by the senators. It's an important project that seals our system. It's an important project that helps keep refugees alive. But I am aware, Mr. Senator, that this problem of 3 million refugees 'Cause it's 3 million refugees. only through the Polish border entered Poland, many of them went further, to Germany, to other countries This is a pan-European problem, a problem that should be covered by particular European solidarity. I, Senator, believe that this is due to certain administrative EU procedures. I believe that the Union will not leave Poland without help. But it is true that until now neither the gold has been paid, even from the money declared, and at the beginning it was EUR 0.5 billion for Ukraine and all the neighbouring countries that received refugees, then it was EUR 1 billion, although it is still the case. It's not enough, it's a drop in the sea of needs. The senators who work, you see numbers, you know exactly how much it costs Polish society, Polish local governments, Polish government. Our aid fund is PLN 8 billion, not to mention another form of aid, which Mr Morawiecki recently referred to. This help is huge. Therefore, I am convinced that nobody in Brussels will block money for Poland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u7	Thank you very much, Minister. Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u8	Minister, when did the Prime Minister ask the European Union for support for refugees?
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u9	I, Mr. Senator, am afraid to make a mistake, but in weeks we must count this time from the moment this event occurred. A letter... [[Minister, but the date...]] If the senator wants us to write that question down and answer it in writing, so that the senator can be... [[Minister, but that was a week ago, two weeks ago?]] I'm sure more than two weeks ago, but I wouldn't want to mislead your senator. And the letter of ministers, which pointed out the great need and asked for measures to be prepared This was a joint letter from Polish and German ministers of the Interior at least a month ago, if not earlier. We'll give this information to the senator in writing.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u10	Thank you very much, Minister. No further questions. For the record, a government representative has committed himself to answering in writing the question asked by Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz. I'm opening a discussion. I would like to inform you that none of your senators have signed up. For the record, Senator Alexander Swed has filed... Oh, excuse me, sir. The senator's on the record, too. I would like to inform you that the senators Alexander Swed and Janusz Błucherz made their speeches in the discussion on the minutes. The discussion is closed. I would like to inform you that the vote on this bill will be held at the end of the Senate meeting in 45 minutes, I think. We will begin the vote at 10 a.m. I'm calling a 45-minute recess, 10 o'clock. [[Adjournment from 9 minutes 15 to 10 minutes 02]] I'm reopening the session. Please take your seats and collect your cards. Dear Senators, let me remind you that the next Senate meeting is scheduled for 18 and 19 May 2022. The agenda for this meeting will be provided to you by electronic means. We begin to consider item 17 on the agenda: changes in the membership of the Senate committees. I would like to remind you that the proposal of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on this issue is included in print No 696. I would ask the rapporteur of the Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, Mr Sławomir Rybicki, to present a proposal to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u11	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] The Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators Committee unanimously recommended that the Senate adopt a resolution on changes in the membership of the Senate committees at its meeting yesterday. The Senate of the Republic dismisses Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk from the Rules Committee, Ethics and Senators' Affairs, and Senator Maciej Łuczak from the Committee on Immigration and Communication with Poles abroad. The Senate of the Republic elects Senator Przemysław Błaszczyk and Senator Maciej Łuczak to the Committee on the Environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u12	Thank you very much, Senator. Would any of your senators like to speak on this matter? No. We therefore proceed to the vote on this point, on the draft resolution tabled by the Committee on Rules of Procedure, Ethics and Senators' Affairs on changes in the membership of the Senate committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 98 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 2]] We're starting the vote. We are returning to the first item on the agenda: the Humanitarian and Medical Aid Team Act. The meeting of the Committee on Local Government and State Administration and the Committee on Health took place during the discussion and prepared a joint report on the matter. It is available in print No 689 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Ewa Matecka, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u13	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! I present the report of the Health Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, published in print No 689 Z. The Commissions at its meeting on 27 April 2022 considered the conclusions put forward during the debate on 27 April 2022 on the Humanitarian-Medical Aid Team and presented the following position to the High Senate: The High Senate is pleased to accept the conclusions set out in paragraphs 1 to 5 and 7 to 15.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u14	Thank you very much. Do the senators still want to speak? I would like to remind you that the conclusions of the discussion were made by the pleno titulo senators Martynowski, Chybick, Mateck and Małecka-Libera. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Amendment 1 is editorial. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 3]] Amendment 2 aims to extend the catalogue of persons who may be members of this team. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 4]] Amendment 3. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Could Senator Gawada, sitting remotely, see if she sent a signal? Well, I'm asking you to give me the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 5]] Attention, amendments 4 and 10 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 6]] Amendment 5. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 7]] Attention, Amendment 6 will rule out voting on Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 47 were in favour, 52 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 8]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 9]] Amendment 8. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 10]] Amendment 9. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 11]] Amendment 11. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 12]] Amendment 12. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 13]] Amendment 13. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 98 for, 1 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 14]] Attention, amendments 14 and 15 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Kobiak, take a look at if the signal was sent. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 15]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you Senator Piecha voting? Mr. Senator Jackowski, please check the signal. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 16]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act on Humanitarian Aid and Medical Aid Team. We return to the second agenda: the Act amending the Act on the National Court Register. The Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions presented a draft resolution in which it proposed that this law be adopted without amendment. It is contained in Senate printing No 684 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution because there are no amendments. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 17]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the National Court Register. We are returning to the examination of the third item of the agenda: the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. The meeting of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate, prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 685 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Magdalena Kochan, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u15	The committees mentioned by your marshal at yesterday's meeting decided to reject the proposal for a law without amendments and adopted the 2 amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u16	Thank you very much, Senator. Do the other Senators still want to speak? I would remind you that the rapporteur of the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy was Senator Bogusława Orzechowska, and the rapporteur of the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions, and the Legislative Committee, Mr Krzysztof Kwiatkowski. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the proposal to adopt the law without amendments and then, if this proposal is rejected, on the amendments tabled. We are voting on the proposal from the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions to adopt the law without amendments. Who's in favour? [[Voices from the room: Against, against.]] [[Voices from the Chamber: Vote in favour.]] Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 46 for, 52 against, 1 Senator abstained. [[Voting No 18]] In view of the rejection of the proposal for a law without amendments, we are voting on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Is Senator Bladder voting? [[Focus, boy.]] Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 19]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Czudowska, please see if the signal has been sent. Thank you. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 97 in favour, no one opposed, two senators abstained. [[Voting No 20]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Civil Procedure Code. We return to the examination of the fourth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport has presented a draft resolution in which it asks for an amendment to the Senate Act No 686 A. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendment submitted and then on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendment adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendment tabled by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 97 for, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 21]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with the amendment resulting from the amendment adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. Ninety-nine senators voted, 96, no one opposed, three senators abstained. [[Voting No 22]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and some other laws. We return to the examination of the fifth item of the agenda: the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science. The Committee on Science, Education and Sport presented a draft resolution in which it requested that this law be adopted without amendment. It's a senate print No. 687 A. We therefore proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committee. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 23]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Law amending the Law on Higher Education and Science and the Law introducing the Law on Higher Education and Science. We are returning to the examination of item six of the agenda: the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. The session was interrupted by a meeting of the Scientific, Education and Sport Committee and of the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is in print No 691 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Janusz Błucher, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u17	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The committees mentioned by your marshal at its meeting on 27 April 2022 discussed the proposals made during the debate on the Law amending the Law on the Education System and certain other laws. They present to the High Senate the following position: The High Senate is willing to accept the conclusions set out in points 6 and 16. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u18	Thank you very much. I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the Joint Committee, Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski, to present proposals supported by a minority of the Joint Committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u19	Very short. I would first of all like to thank you for recognising the importance and importance of these natural objects that were to be included in this additional exam. However, I will immediately add that some senators thought that the introduction of this additional exam was too late, if this proposal had been earlier, there would have been greater agreement. But I would like to thank you very warmly and for the debate, and for the discussion, and for recognising natural objects as important. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u20	Thank you very much, senator. Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the discussion the senators submitted proposals: Poor, Bladder, Frankiewicz and Zdrojewski. We'll proceed with the vote. First of all, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution adopted on the adoption of the law in its entirety, as amended by the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 must be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted against, 6 against, 45 against, 48 abstentions. [[Voting No 24]] Attention, amendments 6, 8 and 15 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 25]] Amendment 7. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 26]] N.B.: Amendments 9, 10, 12, 13 and 14 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 54 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 27]] N.B.: Amendments 11 and 16 should be voted together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 28]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, 99 votes for, no one was against and no one held back. [[Voting No 29]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on the Education System and some other laws. We return to the examination of item seven of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on State Property Management. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on National Economy and Innovation and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 678 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Mr Bogdan Borusewicz, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u21	The Legislative Commission and the Committee on National Economy and Innovation met yesterday at a meeting break. The joint committees recommend rejecting the motion for rejection of the bill submitted by Senator Czerwiński. So I'm asking for a party... [[Voice from the room: Commissions bring in.]] Yes, the committees are asking for the bill to be adopted without amendment. I would like to add from myself that yesterday it was reported that Prime Minister Orbán had decided that Gazprom's gas payment would be made in rubles. Although this violates the principles introduced by the European Commission, it is breaking the principles of the embargo.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u22	Do the senators of the applicants still want to speak? I would like to remind you that during the second reading, proposals of a legislative nature were submitted by Senators Czerwiński, Martynowski, Szwed, and Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz was also the rapporteur of the committee after the first reading. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicants in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to raise such a question? Mr. Senator, Mr. Marshal Kaminski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u23	I have a question for the Senator of the rapporteur. If we adopt this bill, we will come closer to the situation where allies of Vladimir Putin in Europe, such as Prime Minister Viktor Orbán, who broke Polish-Hungarian solidarity yesterday, which supposedly lasted a thousand years... Yesterday the Hungarian Prime Minister spit in the face of all Poles, agreeing to Russian blackmail... [[Talking in the O.R.]] ...and not remembering that once Poles died in Hungarian wars with Russian soldiers for freedom. In short, Senator, rapporteur, will the vote against this proposed bill cause joy or sadness in the Kremlin? [[Voice from the room: How do you know what's going on in the Kremlin?]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u24	Mr. Marshal, please respond briefly.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u25	I'm sure the vote behind this bill will cause sadness on the Kremlin.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u26	Thank you. We're coming... I'd like your attention, please. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the motion to reject the bill, tabled by Senator Czerwiński, and then, in case of rejection, on the adoption of the draft law contained in print n 678 S. We are voting on the motion of Senators Czerwiński, Martynowski and Swedes to reject the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 45 for, 53 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 30]] In view of the rejection of the motion for rejection of the bill, we proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law submitted by the committees and on the draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print No 678 S. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz to represent the Senate in further work on the bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 were in favour, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 31]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on the Rules of State Property Management and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized the senator, Marshal Borusewicz, to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 8 of the agenda: Act amending the Act on Pension Supply of Professional Soldiers and their Families, Act on Pension Supply of Police Officers, Internal Security Agency, Intelligence Agency, Military Counterintelligence Service, Military Intelligence Service, Central Anti-corruption Office, Border Guard, Marshal's Guard, State Security Service, State Fire Department, Customs-Scarb Service and Prison Service and their families and some other laws. The meeting of the Committee on National Defence, the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy took place during the session, which responded to the proposals put forward during the debate and prepared a joint report on the subject. It is available in print No 688 Z. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jerzy Wcisla, to submit a report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u27	Mr. Marshal! High Senate! The committees you mentioned after the joint meeting recommend I'm sorry. The adoption of a law without amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u28	I ask the rapporteur of the minority of the joint committee, Senator Jan Filip Libicki, to present proposals supported by a minority of the joint committees.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u29	Dear Marshal, A minority of the joint committees are asking the High Senate to accept all the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u30	Thank you very much. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, the amendments will be voted on and then the resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety will be adopted, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Attention, amendments 1 and 4 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 32]] Attention, amendments 2, 6, 9, 10 and 11 must be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Are you Senator Stubborn? Did... [[Voice from the room: No vote.]] Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 33]] Attention, amendments 3, 5, 7 and 8 should be voted on together. The adoption of these amendments will result in an appropriate modification of Amendment 6. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, 53 for, 45 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 34]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of a resolution on the adoption of the law in its entirety, with amendments resulting from the amendments adopted. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 35]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the Act amending the Act on pension provision of professional soldiers and their families, the Act on pension provision of police officers, the Internal Security Agency, the Intelligence Agency, the Military Counterintelligence Service, the Military Intelligence Service, the Central Anti-corruption Office, the Border Guard, the Marshal's Guard, the State Security Service, the State Fire Department, the Customs and Carbage Service and their families and some other laws. We return to the examination of item 9 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print No. 581 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jerzy Wczyła to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law tabled by the committees on the amendment of the law. The implementing penal code and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted... Sorry, 99 senators voted, 98, no one opposed, one senator abstained. [[Voting No 36]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the implementation of the Penal Code and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Jerzy Wczyła to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 10 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on criminal proceedings. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and to the Committee on Human Rights, Rule of Law and Petitions and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 665 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u31	Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The joint Legislative Committee and the Committee on Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Petitions adopted the amendments tabled yesterday. They request that the draft be adopted together with the amendments adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u32	Thank you very much. At present, senators may submit a maximum of one minute's query to the rapporteur and the applicant, who was also Senator Kwiatkowski, in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? I don't see any volunteers. Thank you. We'll proceed with the vote. In the first place, a vote will be taken on the amendments tabled, in print No 665 X, and then on the adoption of the draft No 665 S, in full, as amended by any amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 37]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 38]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on the Code of Criminal Procedure and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Krzysztof Kwiatkowski to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 11 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law. Code of Administrative Procedure and some other laws. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading. I would like to inform you that the third reading only includes voting. I would remind you that the committees request the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 188 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Jerzy Czerwiński to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law tabled by the committees on amending the law Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 39]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Law on the Code of Administrative Procedure and certain other laws and has adopted a resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft Law. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Jerzy Czerwiński to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 12 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the Law on spatial planning and development. Following the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission and the Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is in print No 215 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz, to present an additional report to the committee. Does Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz still want to speak as an applicant after presenting the committee's report? No. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u33	Yesterday, the joint committees adopted 2 amendments and asked the High Senate to adopt the bill together with the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u34	At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? I don't see any calls. We therefore proceed to the vote. In the first place, amendments will be voted in the order of the text, in print No 215 X, and then in the adoption of the bill, in print No 215 S, in full, with amendments resulting from possible amendments adopted. We proceed with the vote on the amendments tabled. Amendments 1 and 2 should be voted on together. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 40]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the draft law in its entirety, with changes resulting from the amendments adopted and on the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 41]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate adopted a draft law amending the Law on spatial planning and development and adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Zygmunt Frankiewicz to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 13 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on the amendment of the Act on cinematography. After the second reading of the bill, the Senate sent the draft to the Legislative Commission, the Committee on Culture and Media and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy and obliged these committees to present an additional report at the present Senate meeting. It is available in print No 355 X. We proceed to the third reading. I ask the rapporteur, Senator Jan Maria Jackowski, to present an additional report to the committee.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u35	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! The committees at the joint meeting yesterday responded to the proposals put forward in the course of the discussion. The committees supported the proposal contained in the summary of proposals and request that it be adopted by the Senate together with a uniform draft law amending the Act on Cinema and a draft resolution on the submission to the Sejm of this draft law, contained in print No 355 S. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u36	Thank you very much, senator. Does the senator want to speak again? I would like to remind you that during your second reading, you presented a legislative proposal to Marshal Gabriel Morawska-Staneck. [[Senator Gabriela Morawska-Stanecka: Thank you very much.]] At present, senators may submit no more than one minute of a request to the rapporteur and the applicant in connection with the additional report submitted. Would any of your senators like to make such inquiries? No. We'll proceed with the vote. First, a vote will be taken on the amendment, print No 355 X, and then on the adoption of the draft, print No 355 S, in full as a result of the amendment adopted. We are voting on this amendment, which aims to clarify the audiodescription to which the film is produced. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 42]] We therefore proceed to the vote on the adoption of the bill in its entirety, with the amendments resulting from the amendment adopted and the draft resolution on the submission of the bill to the Sejm. The committees propose that the Senate authorize Marshal Gabriela Moravian-Stanecka to represent the Senate in further work on this bill. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Senator Sekuła, please take a look at the signal. Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 43]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the Act on Cinema and has adopted a resolution on the submission of this draft Act to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized you to represent the Senate in further work on this project. We are returning to the examination of item 14 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law amending the law on education law. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would ask for some more focus and silence, because the noise becomes difficult to deal with. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a single bill in print No. 679 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Magdalena Kochan to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft bill submitted by the committees and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. 99 senators voted, all in favour. [[Voting No 44]] In the light of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on education and has adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Magdalena Kochan to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 15 of the agenda: the second reading of the draft law on amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country and the law on education. I would like to remind you that yesterday a report was presented to the committee on the draft law and a discussion was held. We proceed to the third reading, which only includes the vote. I would like to remind you that the committees are requesting the Senate to adopt a uniform bill in print No 693 S. The committees also propose that the Senate authorise Senator Tyszkiewicz to represent the Senate's position in further work on this project. We proceed to the vote on the draft law submitted by the committee and the draft resolution on the submission of this draft law to the Sejm. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Mr. Senator Jackowski, please check... Please state the results of the vote. 99 Senators voted, 58 for, 41 against, no one abstained. [[Voting No 45]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a draft law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of the State and the law on education and adopted a resolution on the introduction of this draft law to the Sejm. At the same time, I inform you that the Senate has authorized Senator Wadim Tyszkiewicz to present the Senate's position in further work on this project. We return to the examination of item 16 of the agenda: the law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with armed conflict in the territory of this country. The Committee on Territorial Government and State Administration and the Committee on Family, Senior and Social Policy have presented a draft resolution in which they request the adoption of this law without amendments; Senate print No 697 A. We proceed to the vote on the draft resolution submitted by the committees. Who's in favour? Who's against it? Who's holding back? Please state the results of the vote. [[Talking in the O.R.]] Please move the calls to the cocksuckers. The vote is on. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] Please state the results of the vote. 98 senators voted in favour, 98 in favour, no one opposed, no one abstained. [[Voting No 46]] In view of the results of the vote, I state that the Senate has adopted a resolution on the law amending the law on assistance to Ukrainian citizens in connection with the armed conflict in its territory. I would like to inform you that the agenda for the first 40th meeting has been exhausted. We proceed to senators' statements outside the agenda. I would remind you that today at 3 p.m. there will be an online connection with the Vice-President of the European Commission, Mr Šefčovič. Declarations may not last more than 5 minutes. [[Talking in the O.R.]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] The statement may include matters relating to the implementation of the mandate but may not relate to matters on the agenda of the current Senate meeting. The Marshal will refuse to accept unsubstantiated statements which cannot be established or which the Senator's announcement would not be possible within the time available, i.e. within 5 minutes. There is no discussion on the senator's statement. [[Talking in the O.R.]] I am the first to ask the floor of Senator Alicia Chybicka.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u37	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. [[Talking in the O.R.]] May I ask for silence, please? I'm not gonna be heard at all. [[You're welcome...]] [[Voice from the room: Shh...]] I don't have the strength to scream. [[...to transfer the discussion to the clowns, because the professor making the statement can't be heard.]] Thank you again, Mr. Marshal. High Izbo! My statement, which will consist of two parts, is addressed to the Minister of Health. In both cases, I've been asked to intervene. One issue concerns funding in dental care. It turns out that the current increase in the cost of medical activity has already deepened the dramatic level of the lack of profitability of dental contracts. In many places dentists give up contracts at all. This applies mainly to dental surgery and periodontology, the valuation of benefits packages, and here I have the given number, WT5403332021 and the valuation of the exchange of amalgam filling in the solid or milk tooth WT5403222021. The attempt to replace the introduction of these prices by an addition will in no way remedy the situation. For example, if the tooth extraction is now valued at 32 to 35 PLN, then after taking into account this four-and-a-half percent supplement it will be valued at 33,5 The supplement introduced is a response to the inflationary surge of the last several weeks and should be made to the healthcare providers regardless of the correct assessment of this fundamental valuation, and dentistry suffers from a serious underestimation of the valuation of benefits for many years. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister. Not everyone can afford private dental care, especially for children. I'm asking you kindly to intervene in this matter. The second case concerns nurses. Well, the nurses approached me on the following matter. Currently, also in Cape, which I have led for many years, we are dealing with nurses who have graduated from higher education, and with those who have not graduated from higher education. It wasn't used to be. This group of nurses who haven't graduated from high school, these are the most experienced nurses, these are girls really fantastic in this job. And what do they turn to? The problem is that, in the light of current regulations, they are much less paid than nurses who are after higher education. This makes them work many jobs or want to give up this job. It seems to me that during a period where we have huge problems with nursing staff, we should appreciate and take into account the internship of nurses' work and not hurt these nurses. Because this is where the young girls come in... I want to tell you what it's practically like. Well, young girls come after college, which these older nurses put into work and teach, but these young girls get much higher money. This is absolutely incorrect. So I'm asking you to look into it and make nurse's wages addicted not only in addition, but also on the basis Also since the internship of the job, because this situation is pathological, you can say. It can't be that the teacher gets less money than the student, and that's where the deal is made. Thank you very much. [[The meeting is chaired by Deputy Marshal Bogdan Borusewicz]]
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u38	Thank you, Senator. I'd like to make a statement to Senator Benjamin Godyla.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u39	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! My statement is addressed to Mr Andrzej Adamczyk, Minister of Infrastructure. It concerns the issue of auction during the coal sale process in Polish mines. Dear Minister, I would like to draw your attention to the difficult situation in which economic operators selling coal in Poland are currently located. For several months now, such companies have had a very limited opportunity to trade coal due to the limits introduced and the auctions that have recently been the only option to buy coal in mines. The coal policy pursued in this way shifts not only to price increases but, above all, hits customers' pockets. Some coal traders have already had to significantly reduce or suspend their business activity. People also point to problems with buying coal over the Internet due to the suspension system and the lack of availability of goods. Consumers also complain about complex formal requirements that need to be met in order to be able to pick up the coal they ordered. I ask you kindly to intervene and present plans for the government to improve this situation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u40	Thank you, Senator. Please make a statement by Senator Stanisław Gawłowski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u41	Mr. Marshal! High Izbo! In public space, there is a lot of false, false information about the agreement concluded with Gazprom in 2010. According to this information, Gazprom's debt of over PLN 1 billion has been decommitted. I want to make it clear that this isn't true. I would also like to address my statement in this connection. Senator Magdalena Kochan and Senator Magdalena Kochan. To the Prime Minister and ask him a question. The agreement provides that about PLN 850 million will be suspended and will not be recovered from Gazprom provided that Gazprom will be pressing until 2045 using the Jamal pipeline operated by EuRoPol Gaz, gas to Western Europe. Yesterday, however, he concluded this agreement and therefore violated the terms of the agreement and Poland should immediately proceed to the recovery of PLN 850 million for the suspension that was made in 2010. I therefore ask the Prime Minister: have the government and the relevant companies taken action to recover in full the debts resulting from this agreement? That's one thing. And secondly, I would like the government to estimate the losses due to the absence of this pressing until 2045. Losses resulting from the fact that the company is threatened with bankruptcy, that it will not pay property taxes, will not pay CIT and PIT taxes. I, of course, am aware of the commitments and facts that come from the war today, but how so easily different people argue about the amounts that are supposed to be abandoned. And let me repeat: this is not true, they have been suspended, and I want to show the other side of this agreement, so that everyone who is so easily lied to will never use that lie again. That's the first statement. And a second, brief statement, also to the Prime Minister. I request information, on behalf of myself and also Senator Magdalena Kochan, whether President Obejtek has access to classified, confidential, secret and top secret documents. He manages a strategic company of the State Treasury, a company that has experience. I asked the minister yesterday. The minister couldn't answer that question because he didn't know. Therefore, I hope that the Prime Minister knows. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u42	Thank you very much, Senator. And I ask you to make a statement to Senator Krzysztof Mroz.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u43	Mr. Marshal! I am directing my statement to the Minister of Infrastructure, Andrzej Adamczyk. My senator's office was visited by representatives of the Dolnośląskie Road Centre branch of Jelenia Góra, paying attention to the increased interest in driving license exams from Ukrainian citizens. According to the information provided, the driving licence theoretical examination may take place in one of the 3 languages available in the computer examination system. These are Polish, English and German languages. Due to the increased interest in the exam by Ukrainian citizens, representatives of the Lower Silesian Road Traffic Centre proposed the possibility of changing the computer system by adding the Ukrainian language version of examination questions to the program. According to representatives of the Lower Silesian Road Traffic Centre in Jelenia Góra, it is possible to translate the database of questions into Ukrainian and implement an additional language version. I therefore ask the Minister to answer the following questions. First: does the Ministry of Infrastructure have data that indicate an increased interest in obtaining Polish licenses to drive vehicles by Ukrainian citizens? Secondly, is the Ministry of Infrastructure considering introducing an additional language version of the examination questions into the computer examination system? Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u44	Thank you, Senator. And I kindly ask you to make a statement by Senator Stanisław Lamczyk.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u45	Thank you very much. Mr. Marshal! Ladies and gentlemen! The war in Ukraine has very surprising effects on the global energy market. A few months ago, green hydrogen was considered too expensive. Experts pointed out that 5 to 10 more years would pass before green energy would be cheap enough to produce green hydrogen in a cost-effective way. However, gas prices have caused that in a country where you can produce cheap renewable energy, conversion to green hydrogen suddenly becomes profitable today. In Northern Europe, green hydrogen is produced much earlier than initially expected. The result of the war may therefore be that green hydrogen is gaining market share much faster and not just making breakthroughs in a few years. Currently, there are no legal regulations in Poland, provisions in the law or implementing regulations concerning the rules of operation of the system for monitoring and controlling the quality of hydrogen fuels intended for transport purposes. The fuel cell system in a hydrogen-powered vehicle requires very high quality hydrogen, as even trace amounts of pollutants can adversely affect the efficiency and durability of fuel cells. In order to mitigate the risk of pollution, ISO 14687 has been developed, which sets strict requirements for the purity of hydrogen in fuel cells applications. Art. 5 Directive 2014/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council11 on the supply of hydrogen for road transport requires Member States to provide a sufficient number of hydrogen filling points by 2025 to ensure the movement of hydrogen-powered vehicles, including those powered by polymer fuel cells. Annex II of the Directive in point 2 concerning the technical specification for filling points for motor vehicles provides that the purity of hydrogen emitted by hydrogen filling points must comply with the technical specifications of ISO standard. Because at present in Polish legal regulations hydrogen fuel is not allowed to be used and therefore there are no regulations in which quality requirements, test methods, presentation of results, etc. are described, there is not yet a fully equipped laboratory in Poland that has PCA accreditation for quality tests of hydrogen fuel. This gap should be completed as soon as possible by launching specific actions, especially since in Poland, selected qualitative analyses of trace hydrogen pollutants are carried out in several laboratories belonging to hydrogen producers. This will certainly facilitate the process of validation and obtaining a PCA accreditation certificate. In Poland, no scientific unit or research institute has yet been established a laboratory to investigate the comprehensive quality of hydrogen fuel, which would serve as a leading unit for validating and evaluating research procedures, as well as consolidating the analytical environment with the creation of a discussion platform for solving current analytical problems. Hence the appeal to the Prime Minister to take the hydrogen business to the wallpaper to start working on it. It is clear that after 2025 there will be a shortage of materials to build batteries, which is why it is so important that, so to speak, the hydrogen road. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u46	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor and make a statement by Senator Bogdan Zdrojewski.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u47	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I have two statements, both addressed to the Minister of Finance. By the way, it is gratifying that we finally have the Minister of Finance, at this very difficult time for Poland, at a very high time of inflation. I want to take advantage of the appointment of the new finance minister and ask two questions in my two statements. The first statement is related to the reply I received from my predecessor. I asked a question about the number of newly printed banknotes, except, of course, the exchange of used banknotes. I got information about the number of pieces, but without identifying their denominations. The answer was, in short, very evasive. I want to repeat this statement and ask you to also indicate the denominations of those pieces that have been left recently. It was 1.5 years printed. The second statement is related to the observation of the website of the Ministry of Finance, in particular the tax offices. I pointed out that only a few banks could be used in possible accounts with the bank. There are Stefczyk's Casinos, there are cooperative banks, and many banking institutions do not exist, and therefore it is not possible to settle automatically with the fiscus under various obligations. I would like to ask the Minister whether there is a chance to complete this list and why it contains these, and not others, often much stronger, banking institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u48	Thank you, Senator. I'm declaring a short three-minute break. [[Adjournment from 11 minutes 15 to 11 minutes 17]] I'm reopening the session. The statement will be made by Senator Bogdan Borusewicz. The statement is addressed to the Minister of State Assets, Deputy Prime Minister Jack Sasin. I ask for information on the costs incurred by the Polish Television in connection with legal service of the enforcement of judgments in matters which television has brought to the citizens of the Republic of Poland, but also to the media, journalists. According to my opinion, there are a lot of things that Poland's Television brings out, accusing others of not complying with the press law, saying. There are at least dozens of such cases in one category, concerning the fact that Poland's Television had an impact on the murder of President Adamowicz. Also President Jacek Kurski for public television money conducts a whole range of civil actions or has brought civil actions in cases that concern him in which he feels offended. The easiest way to deal with this kind of thing is that, according to what I know, For such matters, which should be paid by the plaintiff, the Polish Television pays from its budget. Minister, Mr. Vice Prime Minister, how many cases have there been? What were their costs? How many cases have been lost? This question also applies to this group of cases which should be paid by President Jack Kurski and are paid by public television. I'd ask for information as soon as possible. Let me remind you, there's a monthly deadline here. I wish the Minister wouldn't have exceeded that deadline. And now for your statement, Senator Jolanta Hibner.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u49	Thank you, Mr. Marshal. I am not only asking, but also calling on the Prime Minister not to wait, but to help resolve a conflict that has been going on for days or even months, a conflict that has not yet been resolved for unknown reasons. It is a conflict between air traffic controllers or air traffic controllers and authorities, the Civil Aviation Authority and the Air Navigation Agency. It's incomprehensible to all of us. I call on the Prime Minister not to postpone it. In three days, it will turn out that Poles are grounded at various airports in different places in the world, that someone who has left today, there is no way back, does not know when he will return. Does the Prime Minister realise how many families will be denied the possibility of any kind of planning? Is the Prime Minister aware of the costs the Poles will incur through your carelessness in this dimension? At the moment, my conversations are similar to dragging a rope. After all, it is really about the safety of people who fly planes all over Poland. Don't we have the right to expect from the government that this security will be guaranteed for us? Do we not have the right to expect effective action in a dispute that is at the moment the most important dispute in the area of aviation? Shouldn't we expect the Prime Minister not to walk through various conferences, where he talks about the greatness that the government is preparing at the moment, but to start working for our citizens? Honestly, a lot of people are calling me, a lot of people are worried. And this isn't just about those people who have plans right now. The point is that such dragging of a rope can cause that Poland, practically speaking, will not be able to use the air area at all. So it's completely incomprehensible to me. In this situation, you are not doing well with the Deputy Minister, who, in my opinion, is guarding a field that may be an airport in the future. Of course, in this dimension it is unimaginable so far, because nothing is prepared there yet. We don't even know what area it's going to take. We're seeing the situation right now. Mr. Horala couldn't handle it, Mr. Adamczyk couldn't handle it, so he should definitely get the Prime Minister involved. If the Prime Minister doesn't have that kind of power, then I'm addressing your Deputy Prime Minister, who's in charge of security. Prime Minister Kaczyński, start making your own decisions if they cannot be made by the people responsible. I expect this conflict to be resolved very quickly. We all say that when it comes to security, this has been initialled, it will be accepted. Ladies and gentlemen, the security issue is also labour law, and the demands of relationships regarding regulations, that's the number of working hours... It is not only a matter of the fact that trade unions are only talking about the fact that there can be no one controller, because it may turn out that it will collapse and will not be possible to carry out the correct arrival or departure of the aircraft. That's not the point. It is also a matter of ensuring that this security is in every form, even as regards those who make decisions so that it does not turn out that one will collapse and there will be a disaster for which the Prime Minister, the Deputy Prime Minister and all those who participated will later be responsible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u50	Thank you, Senator. Please take the floor and make a statement to Senator Adam Szejnfeld.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u51	Thank you very much, Mr. Marshal. My statement is addressed to Prime Minister Mateusz Morawiecki, President of the Council of Ministers. The case concerns the consequences of the implementation of the Act of 16 April, the latest law on special solutions to counter the promotion of aggression against Ukraine and to protect national security. It is a law that we have recently considered here in the Senate, and how probably interested persons who have followed this debate, know, over-party, over-clubly, over-politically supported this law, we recognise that it is important, necessary. The Act introduces what we call a colloquially sanctioned list, so creating a list of those companies which, as they are believed, support direct or indirect aggression on Ukraine. The law covers those companies that operate in Russia and Belarus, so the pros alone could be said. There is, however, a downside, not so much in the law as in its implementation, its implementation. That is, there have been negative effects for citizens, for local governments, for public entities. Probably there is no provision for and it should be foreseen, to act in advance, to ensure that, if it enters into the list of sanctions of an undertaking which, for example, supply, as in this case, about which in a moment two words, gas to Polish customers, then we must provide an alternative, so that this gas and heat will not run out. We have this effect, that even if only this is not a catalogue closed in my Greater Poland, we can mention two examples, Zagórów and Mieścisko in the district of Wągrowice, or others in the country, e.g. Łeba in Pomorskie voivodship, where the gas was supplied by Novatek Green Energy, which was included in the list of 50 companies, on this list of sanctions. The company delivered gas, and gas was cut off, and therefore individual farms, residents, but also local authorities, public entities that provide services to residents, like schools, like kindergartens, like social services centers, also, which is very dangerous, health center, have no gas, have no energy, have no heat. I would therefore like to conclude, first of all, by hearing from the Prime Minister, why such a situation occurred, why previously in these and all other cases no safeguards have been introduced, so that there will be no negative effects on Polish citizens, Polish companies and Polish local governments of the proper introduction of sanctions against companies cooperating directly or indirectly with the aggressor. Secondly, what the Prime Minister, which the Council of Ministers immediately, I understand, has taken and what will be taken, so that such negative consequences for Polish citizens and Polish entities are not, as part of the conduct, and rightly, a list of sanctions and implementation of the law, whose title I quoted at the outset. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-PL_2022-04-28-senat-41-2.u52	Thank you, Senator. That's the end of the statement. I would like to inform you that the minutes of the first 40th Senate meeting of the Republic of Poland X term will be made available to the senators within 30 days of the Senate meeting at the Senate Office in room 255. The first 40th session of the Senate of the Republic of Poland is closed. [[The Vice Marshal strikes three times with a marshal's cane]] [[End of session at 11 minutes 31]]
